Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated the "Code of Ordinances, City of Jonesboro, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1987, § 1-1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances and resolutions, the following rules shall govern, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council:
Bond. When a bond is required by law, an undertaking in writing, without seal, is sufficient; and in all bonds where the names of the obligors do not appear in the bond, but are subscribed thereto, they shall be bound thereby.
Charter. The word "Charter" shall mean the Charter of the City of Jonesboro, Georgia.
City. The word "city" shall mean the City of Jonesboro, Georgia.
City council. The term "city council" shall mean the mayor and councilmembers of the City of Jonesboro, Georgia.
Code. The word "Code" or "this Code" shall mean the Code of Ordinances, City of Jonesboro, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted, but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Corporate limits. The term "corporate limits" shall mean the corporate limits of the City of Jonesboro.
County. Whenever the words "county," "the county" or "this county" are used they shall refer to Clayton County, Georgia.
Court. The word "court" shall mean the municipal court provided by law for the punishment of offenders against the laws or ordinances of the city, whether it shall be the court now constituted or a court hereafter established pursuant to law.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or an official of the city to do some act or perform some function, it shall be construed to authorize the head of such department or the official to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required function, unless the terms of the provisions designate otherwise.
Gender. The masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
Keeper and proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
Month, year. The words "month" and "year" shall mean calendar month and calendar year unless otherwise provided.
Municipal court. The term "municipal court" shall mean the municipal court of the City of Jonesboro.
Names of officers, departments. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of the City of Jonesboro" were added thereto.
Nontechnical and technical words. The ordinary significance shall be applied to all words, except words of art, or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, in which case they shall have the significance attached to them by experts in the trade or with reference to the subject matter.
Number. The singular or plural number shall each include the other, unless expressly excluded.
Oath. The word "oath" includes affirmation.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Or, and. The words "or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, shall mean and include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations, corporations and bodies politic, or any combination thereof, as well as to natural persons.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean generally next before and next after unless the context requires a different significance.
Property. The word "property" means and includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" shall include any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or congregate.
Schedule of fees and charges. The phrase "schedule of fees and charges" means the official consolidated list compiled and published by the city which contains rates for utility and other public enterprises, fees, deposit amounts, performance bonds, and various charges, as determined from time to time by the city council, an official copy of which is maintained in the office of the city clerk where it is available for reference and review during normal business hours.
Seating, minimum. Where this Code requires seating for a minimum number of persons, only chairs, stools and booths shall be provided as the required seating. The capacity of seats without dividing arms shall be determined by allotting 18 inches per occupant.
Shall, may. The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. A signature or subscription includes the mark of all illiterate or infirm persons.
State. Whenever the words "state," "the state" or "this state" are used they shall refer to the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall include streets, sidewalks, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes and all other public highways in the city, unless otherwise provided.
Substantial compliance. A substantial compliance with any requirement of this Code or ordinances amendatory thereof, especially on the part of public officers, shall be deemed and held sufficient; and no proceeding shall be declared void for want of such compliance, unless expressly so provided.
Tenant or occupant. The word "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupied, the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. The present or past tense shall include the future.
Writing. The term "writing" includes printing and all numerals, and also pictures, illustrations and printed or written designs.
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 1987, § 1-1-2)
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; time, O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6.
Sec. 1-3. - Provisions considered continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-4. - Catchlines of sections, history notes and editor's notes.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of the section; nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 1987, § 1-1-3)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal of ordinance.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1987, § 1-1-4)
Sec. 1-6. - Severability of parts of Code.
(a)
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that all sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are or were, upon their enactment, believed by the mayor and council to be fully valid, enforceable and constitutional.
(b)
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, each and every section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code is severable from every other section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code. It is hereby further declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, no section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code is mutually dependent upon any other section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code.
(c)
In the event that any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall, for any reason whatsoever, be declared invalid, unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, it is the express intent of the mayor and council that such invalidity, unconstitutionality or unenforceability shall, to the greatest extent allowed by law, not render invalid, unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of the Code and that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, all remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of the Code shall remain valid, constitutional, enforceable, and of full force and effect.
(Code 1987, § 1-1-5; Ord. of 10-9-2000(1), § 1(1-1-5))
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-7. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the city.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat.
(11)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the city.
(12)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(13)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code.
(14)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the city.
(15)
Any ordinance setting the rate of ad valorem taxes.
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter; and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-8. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code of Ordinances which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code of Ordinances may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. In the case of the repeal of chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code of Ordinances and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code of Ordinances by the city council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language, or language of similar import: "Section _____ of the Code of Ordinances of Jonesboro, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: …." The new provisions shall then be set out in full.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language or language of similar import shall be used: "The Code of Ordinances of Jonesboro, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which said section (or article or chapter) reads as follows: …." The new provisions shall then be set out in full.
(d)
All sections, divisions, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, division, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1987, § 1-1-6; Ord. of 8-14-2000(1), § 1(1-1-6))
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1987, § 1-1-7)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-11. - Liability for violations by corporations; other associations.
(a)
Any violation of this Code by any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization, while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall in every case also be deemed to be a violation by the corporation, association or organization.
(b)
Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and liable to punishment as well as the corporation or unincorporated association or organization for the violation by it of any provisions of this Code, where the violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order, of any such person.
Sec. 1-12. - General penalty; continuing violations.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance or resolution of the city, or rule or regulation or order promulgated by any officer or agency of the city under authority duly vested in such person or agency, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, and no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or order shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 or by imprisonment not exceeding 180 days, or by both fine and imprisonment or by alternative sentencing.
Each day any violation of any provision of this Code or of any such ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or order shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1987, § 1-1-8)
Charter reference— Jurisdiction and powers of municipal court, § 4.13.
State Law reference— Imposition of additional penalty for offense of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-112; display of drivers license for violations of laws pertaining to traffic and motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11.
Sec. 1-13. - Additional penalties; jail fund; depositing of money in funds.
(a)
In every case in which the municipal court shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of this state or any offense against a city ordinance, there shall be imposed as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten percent of the original fine.
(b)
At the time of posting bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of this state or a violation of a city ordinance, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted. In every case in which the municipal court shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, the additional sum equal to ten percent of the original bail or bond shall be collected.
(c)
The additional penalties set forth in this section shall be in addition to that amount required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be paid into the peace officers' annuity and benefit fund, or by any other provision of law.
(d)
The additional penalties as prescribed in this section shall be assessed and collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the duty of collecting monies arising from fines and forfeited bonds. Such additional penalties shall be paid over to the city council by the tenth day of each month following the month in which these sums are collected.
(e)
All such sums collected and paid over to the city council shall be deposited into a special account which shall be known as the county jail fund.
(f)
All moneys collected pursuant to this section and placed in the county jail fund shall be expended solely and exclusively for constructing, operating, and staffing the county correctional facilities, or for such other purposes as specified in O.C.G.A. § 15-21-95.
(g)
The additional penalties provided for by this section shall not be imposed or collected in the municipal court unless the city and the county enter into an intergovernmental contract providing for use of the county jail, correctional institution, or detention facility by city prisoners.
State Law reference— Additional penalty assessments for jail construction and staffing, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93.
Sec. 1-14. - Default time limit.
Whenever this Code provides for the performance of any official act or decision by any person or entity, but fails specifically to provide a time limit for performance of the official act or the rendering of the decision, the act shall be performed or the decision rendered within 30 days of the event rendering the performance of the act necessary or possible. If the final day for performance of the act or rendering of the decision falls on a weekend or a legal holiday on which the government offices of the city are closed, then final day shall be extended to the next weekday on which the government offices of the city are open.
(Ord. of 10-9-2000(2), § 1(1-1-2A))
