ARTICLE II. - WATER[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Water resources, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-1 et seq.; waterwell standards, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-120 et seq.; authority to acquire, construct, extend, operate, maintain and collect fees for water and sewerage systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5; adoption of ordinances, rules and regulations relating to payment for street improvements and construction of water, gas and sewer connections, payment of costs of connections, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-7; grants of state funds to municipal corporations for public purposes, O.C.G.A. § 36-40-20 et seq.; authority to provide for the development storage and distribution of water, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(7).

Sec. 86-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Backfill means material, equipment and labor required to fill a trench properly, including compaction of soil.
Corporation stop means a valve placed in a water line lateral, providing a cut-off point for the city if a lateral requires repair, and provides for control of the water until the remaining piping is installed to the property.
Curb stop means the valve installed in a lateral line at the meter box which is normally the cut-off valve for service to the residence or building.
Meter means a device for measuring the flow of water.
Meter box means a preformed box made to set over a line and provide a place for the meter and curb stop.
Street repair means the compaction of the backfill and the repair of the pavement involved.
Tap means the cut or drill opening made in a water or sewer line to connect a lateral to a property.
Trenching means an excavation made for the purpose of locating or installing pipe.
(Code 1976, § 19-19)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 86-32. - Application for water service.
The consumer shall make application for water service, in person or electronically to the utility billing department and shall make a security deposit in an amount set forth in the schedule of fees and provide a copy of the lease at the time of application. A deposit will not be required when the user owns the building where service is being requested, provided the owner submits a copy of proof of ownership (i.e., closing document, warranty deed). A copy of the consumer's driver's license or other valid form of identification must be submitted at the time of application.
Individuals requesting water service connection as a courtesy (i.e., home inspections, real estate open houses) shall make application in person or electronically to customer service at city hall and shall pay a non-refundable fee as set forth in the schedule of fees. Service shall be provided for a maximum of three days.
(Code 1976, § 19-20; Ord. of 3-7-1988; Ord. of 12-21-1998; Ord. of 8-21-2017(1), § I )
Sec. 86-33. - Service tap-in fees.
The aldermanic board is authorized to require a tap-in fee. The amount of such tap-in fee shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges and shall be paid by the resident, developer or other responsible party, prior to the furnishing of water service to the property. The amount of such tap-in fee shall be within the discretion of the aldermanic board, and the aldermanic board shall fix a definite amount, from time to time, by resolution.
(Code 1976, § 19-32)
Sec. 86-34. - Charges for initial water service; connections to system; capital cost recovery fees for annexed areas.
(a)
Each consumer (residential, commercial, institutional or industrial) subscribing to use the water service of the city shall pay a tapping or connection fee as established from time to time by the aldermanic board and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. For the tapping fee, the city will tap the water main up to two inches in diameter, and provide and install the corporation stop and couplings. All other taps three inches in diameter and above shall be the responsibility of the permittee. The materials for the service line up to two inches in diameter, between the distribution main and water meter shall be provided by the city. The permittee shall provide all labor, equipment, materials, excavation, backfilling and street repairs for the installation of the service lines, meters and/or meter boxes. The city shall provide inspection of the installation and the permittee shall be responsible for all workmanship to install the service lines, meters and/or meter boxes. The owner of any house, building or property used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a public water system of the city, is required, at owner's expense, to connect directly with the public water system in accordance with the provisions of this article, within 90 days after the date of official notice to do so, provided that the public water system is within 100 feet of the property line.
(b)
The permittee will provide a service line from the distribution line to the property line where the distribution line exists or is to be connected, and run immediately adjacent and parallel to the property to be served. Where no distribution line exists, extension of the main shall be provided by the permittee at the permittee's expense, all such extensions being subject to the requirements, inspection and approval of the city. The extended main shall become the property of the city. The materials and workmanship for the extension shall be guaranteed for one year from the date of final acceptance and any defects shall be repaired at no expense to the city. After the warranty period, the city shall provide maintenance for the main extension. For service lines that need to be bored under a roadway and/or roadbed, the bore can be contracted with the city up to three inches in diameter. All bores above four inches in diameter shall be the responsibility of the permittee. The permittee shall provide all labor, equipment, materials, excavation, backfilling and street repairs for the bore. Fees for the bore are as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges.
(c)
The permittee shall purchase the meter from the city, provide all materials (piping, valves, couplings, meter box, bypass, etc.), equipment and labor to install the service line from the tap to the property line and install the meter and meter box. Plans and specifications for the service shall be submitted to the city for review. The permittee's contractor for the work shall be subject to inspection and approval by the city. The construction work shall conform to the city's requirements. Work and materials shall be guaranteed for one year from actual final acceptance and any and all defects shall be repaired at no expense to the city. After the warranty period, the city shall provide maintenance of the service line from the main to the meter.
(d)
Nothing in this section shall commit the city to install mains, extend mains or provide backfilling and restoration when such installation extension is required.
(e)
For initial connections to the city water system in those areas of the city annexed by the city after December 15, 1996, the city is authorized to charge each new user a capital cost recovery fee in an amount as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges for each new equivalent residential unit connected to the city water system. The number of equivalent residential units assigned to any consumer shall be determined by reference to the revenue ordinance of the City of Savannah, Georgia, as amended from time to time.
(Code 1976, § 19-21; Ord. of 10-18-1999, § I; Ord. of 8-20-2012(1) , § I)
Sec. 86-35. - Compliance with plumbing code.
All plumbing, including pipes, valves, fittings and interior fixtures, shall conform to the Standard Plumbing Code as adopted in section 22-36(a)(5) of this Code and meet the applicable minimum health and sanitation standards of the state and the city.
(Code 1976, § 19-22)
Sec. 86-36. - Tampering.
It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with or change any water meter, or to make any connection to the system or receive service without permission from the public works department, or to reconnect or receive service when it has been disconnected for nonpayment of a bill for service until such bill has been paid in full, including the connection fee.
(Code 1976, § 19-23)
Sec. 86-37. - Water rates.
Water rates for the following usage categories shall be in an amount set forth in the schedule of fees and charges:
(1)
Residential.
(2)
Commercial.
(3)
Hotels, motels, hospitals and nursing homes.
(4)
Industrial.
(Code 1976, § 19-24; Ord. of 12-17-1990; Ord. of 12-16-1991; Ord. of 12-21-1992; Ord. of 12-20-1993; Ord. of 12-19-1994; Ord. of 12-18-1995; Ord. of 12-16-1996; Ord. of 12-21-1998; Ord. of 12-20-1999)
Sec. 86-38. - Service restrictions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to connect and/or obtain water from the water system of the city for any purpose without the approval of the city public works department.
(b)
The minimum charge, as provided in the schedule of fees and charges, shall be made for subscribed connections. Water furnished for a given lot or construction site shall be used on that lot or site only, and, except for firefighting, the city shall not, under any conditions, furnish water free of charge to anyone.
(c)
Except for firefighting, it shall be unlawful for any person to obtain water for a water tank or truck, or for any other purpose, from a fire hydrant, blowoff and/or any apparatus that will provide water from the city water system without first obtaining a permit and metering device from the city.
(d)
The permit set forth in subsection (c) of this section shall be purchased from the city for a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. The permit shall be displayed for easy inspection.
(e)
The metering device shall be obtained from the city. A security deposit for the cost of the meter shall be collected by the city public works department before the metering device shall be issued.
(f)
The fees for water usage and the cost for damaged city property (i.e. metering devices, fire hydrants, blowoffs, roads, sidewalks, curbs, etc.) shall be paid and/or corrected before the security deposit is refunded.
(g)
It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain water from a water lateral without an approved metering device, meter box and backflow preventer, at any time, during and/or after construction of a commercial, residential or industrial site.
(h)
The metering device shall be obtained from the city for a scheduled fee. Any and all labor and/or material cost to install, maintain, repair or replace the water meter and/or meter box shall be the responsibility of the person who applied for and paid for all permit and building fees.
(i)
Once a building permit is issued from the city, the water meter, meter box, backflow device and other required equipment, shall be installed prior to the first inspection by the building official and/or his designee.
(j)
All water usage fees for construction shall be paid in full before a certificate of occupancy is issued.
(k)
All necessary repairs or replacements to any water meter, meter box or lateral shall be completed at the expense of the contractor before the final inspection and before a certificate of occupancy is issued.
(l)
The city reserves the right to disconnect at any time any apparatus tied into the water system of the city.
(m)
Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1976, § 19-25; Ord. of 5-1-2000, § I)
Sec. 86-39. - Suspension of service.
(a)
When water service is discontinued and all bills paid, the security deposit shall be refunded to the consumer by the city.
(b)
Upon discontinuance of service for nonpayment of bills, the security deposit will be applied by the city toward the settlement of the account. Any balance will be refunded to the consumer; however, if the security deposit is insufficient to cover the bill, the city may proceed to collect the balance in the usual way provided by law for collection of debts.
(c)
The city reserves the right to discontinue its service without notice for the following additional reasons:
(1)
To prevent fraud or abuse;
(2)
Consumer's willful disregard of the city's rules;
(3)
Emergency repairs;
(4)
Insufficiency of water supply due to circumstances beyond the city's control;
(5)
Legal processes;
(6)
Direction of public authorities;
(7)
Strike, riot, fire, flood or unavoidable accident.
(d)
Service disconnected for nonpayment of bills will be restored only after bills are paid in full, including the penalty for nonpayment in an amount set forth in the schedule of fees and charges to be paid of each meter scheduled to be disconnected. The city will restore service within 24 hours after all bills and fees have been paid.
(e)
Service may be suspended at the request of temporary residents (owners) for a minimum of three months and maximum of 12 months and no monthly service fees will be charged. A disconnection service fee and re-connection service fee, as set forth in the schedule of fees, must be paid by the owner at the time each service is requested.
(Code 1976, § 19-25.1; Ord. of 12-20-1999, § II; Ord. of 2-18-2013(1) , § I; Ord. of 8-21-2017(2), § I )
Sec. 86-40. - Meter reading; billing; collection.
Bills to customers for water and sewer service shall be mailed out on such day as may be determined by the city and due dates are based on the following:
Customers on the north side of U.S. Highway 80—Bills are due by the 20 th day of the following month (next business day if the 20 th falls on a weekend).
Customers on the south side of U.S. Highway 80—Bills are due by the 5 th day of the following month (next business day if the 5 th falls on a weekend).
Bills shall be paid at the City Hall and a failure to receive bills or notices shall not prevent such bills from becoming delinquent, nor relieve the consumer from payment of such bills. Payments made in any outside utility payment location will be due by 3:00 p.m. on due date. Any payments placed in said location after 3:00 p.m. on due date will be posted on the following business day and therefore, considered past due and will be assessed a late charge of ten percent.
The failure of water consumers to pay charges duly imposed shall result in the automatic imposition of the following penalties:
(1)
Nonpayment of current month's amount due by due date will be subject to a penalty of ten percent.
(2)
Nonpayment of past due accounts within 30 days of original due date will result in the water being shut off from the water user's property without further notice and a penalty will be assessed as designated in the schedule of fees before service is restored. Disconnection of water service will be conducted on the third business day following the due date.
(Code 1976, § 19-26; Ord. of 10-6-2008, § II; Ord. of 5-3-2010, § I; Ord. of 2-18-2013(1) , § II; Ord. of 2-1-2016 , § I; Ord. of 9-19-2016 )
Sec. 86-41. - Access to premises; extensions of system.
(a)
Duly authorized agents of the city shall have access at all hours to the premises of the consumer for the purpose of installing or removing city property, inspecting piping, reading and testing meters or for any other purpose with regard to connection with the water service and its facilities.
(b)
Extensions to the water system shall be made only when the consumer shall grant or convey, or shall cause to be granted or conveyed, to the city, a permanent easement of right-of-way across any property by the water lines.
(Code 1976, § 19-27)
Sec. 86-42. - Consumer's responsibility and liability.
(a)
Water furnished by the city shall be used for consumption by the consumer, members of his household and employees only. The consumer shall not sell water to any other person or permit any other person to use such water. Water shall not be used for irrigation, fire protection or other purposes, except when water is available in sufficient quantity without interfering with the regular domestic consumption in the area served. Disregard for the provision of this subsection shall be sufficient cause for refusal and/or discontinuance of service.
(b)
Conditions of service are as follows:
(1)
Where a meter or meter box is placed on the premises of the consumer, a suitable place shall be provided by the consumer thereof, unobstructed and accessible at all times to the meter reader.
(2)
The consumer shall furnish and maintain a private cut-off valve in the consumer side of the meter.
(3)
The consumer's piping and apparatus shall be installed and maintained by the consumer at the consumer's expense, in a safe and efficient manner, and in accordance with the sanitary regulations of the state health department.
(4)
In order to be received as a consumer and entitled to receive water from the city's water system, all applicants must offer proof that any private wells located on their property are not physically connected to the lines of the city's water system and all applicants, by becoming consumers of the city covenant, and agree that so long as they continue to be consumers of the city, they will not permit the connection of any private wells on their property to the city's water system.
(5)
The city may install its meter at or near the property line or, at the city's option, on the consumer's property within three feet of the property line.
(6)
The city reserves the right to refuse service unless the consumer's lines or piping are installed in such a manner as to prevent cross connections or backflow.
(c)
Not less than three days' notice must be given, in person or in writing, at the city hall, to discontinue water service or to change occupancy. The outgoing party shall be responsible for all water consumed up to the time of departure or the time specified for departure, whichever period is longer. The new occupant shall apply for water service within 48 hours after occupying the premises and failure to do so will make him liable for paying for the water consumed since the last meter reading.
(d)
Under normal conditions, the consumer will be notified of any anticipated interruptions of service by the city.
(Code 1976, § 19-28)
Sec. 86-43. - Complaints; adjustments.
If the consumer believes his bill to be in error, he shall present his claim, in person, at the city hall before the bill becomes delinquent. Such claim, if made after the bill is delinquent, shall not be effective in preventing discontinuance of service as provided in this article. The consumer may pay such bill under protest and such payment shall not prejudice his claim.
(1)
The city will make a special water meter reading at the request of the consumer for a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges; provided, however, that if such special reading discloses that the meter was over-read, no charge will be made.
(2)
Water meters will be tested at the request of the consumer upon payment to the city of the actual cost of making the test; provided, however, that if the meter is found to over-register beyond three percent of the correct volume, no charge will be made.
(3)
If the seal of the meter is broken by other than the city's representative, or if the meter fails to register correctly or is stopped for any cause, the consumer shall pay an amount estimated from the record of his previous bill and/or from other proper data.
(Code 1976, § 19-29)
Sec. 86-44. - Individual water supply systems.
(a)
Generally; permit application; inspection.
(1)
No person may construct an individual water supply system without having first applied for and obtained from the building official, a construction permit for such system. Application for such permit shall be made in writing on the form provided by the public works department and shall include the:
a.
Name and address of the applicant and owner of the property if different from the applicant;
b.
Legal or other description adequate to locate the property and well;
c.
Name and address of the licensed water well contractor;
d.
Estimated depth, in feet, and method of construction;
e.
Purpose for which the well will be used and the desired yield;
f.
Proposed diameter of the well, in inches;
g.
Type of well casing proposed;
h.
Approximate distance and relative elevation to the well of any potential sources of groundwater pollution.
(2)
No person may place into use an individual water supply for human consumption until final inspection has been made by the county health department.
(b)
Location of well; pollution; property line; flooding.
(1)
One hundred feet is the minimum acceptable distance between wells and sources of pollution located on either the same or adjoining lots. Where, in the opinion of the county health department, adverse conditions exist, this distance may be increased or special means of protection shall be provided;
(2)
A minimum of 50 feet shall separate a well from a septic tank;
(3)
A minimum of ten feet shall separate a well from sewer lines with permanent water tight joints;
(4)
A distance of 100 feet shall separate a well from a chemically poisoned soil;
(5)
Wells for potable water and human consumption shall be located at least ten feet from the property line and when located near a building, they shall be far enough from the building to be accessible for repairs and maintenance;
(6)
A well shall not be located in areas subject to flooding.
(c)
Capacity of wells; pump; pressure tank.
(1)
The capacity of a well, as demonstrated by test pumping or yield testing, shall be adequate to supply the daily and peak load requirements of the single-family dwelling needs. This should not be less than a sustained flow of five gallons per minute, and where this is not possible, the water supply system design shall be altered in such a manner as to increase the storage tank capacity or other appropriate measures;
(2)
Pump capacity shall not exceed the capacity of the well and shall be capable of maintaining a minimum pressure of not less than 20 pounds per square inch (p.s.i.). The pressure tank shall not be less than 42 gallons' capacity. No person or entity may place into use any individual water well system, for any purpose, which yields a flow of greater than 65 gallons per minute.
(d)
Well construction.
(1)
The well shall be graded to facilitate rapid drainage of surface water to a distance of not less than 50 feet from the well, in all directions, unless prevented by site condition in which case a diversion ditch or trench shall be constructed to effectively exclude surface water from the well site. Pump platform, pump room floors, well slabs and well covers shall be located not less than two feet above the highest known high water level;
(2)
A minimum of 50 feet shall separate a well from a septic tank;
(3)
A minimum of ten feet shall separate a well from sewer lines with permanent water tight joints;
(4)
A distance of 100 feet shall separate a well from a chemically poisoned soil;
(5)
Wells for potable water and human consumption shall be located at least ten feet from the property line and when located near a building, they shall be far enough from the building to be accessible for repairs and maintenance;
(6)
A well shall not be located in areas subject to flooding.
(e)
Disinfection and sampling wells. All newly constructed wells shall be disinfected to neutralize contamination introduced through equipment, materials or surface drainage during construction procedures. If water samples show bacterial contamination and continue to do so after all redemptive measures are carried out, provisions shall be made for continuous treatment of the water by chlorination or for abandonment of the well.
(f)
Repairs. At the time the well seal is broken, opened for repairs, inspection or maintenance, the well shall be disinfected.
(g)
Violation; penalty. Any person violating any provision of this section shall, upon conviction of such violation, be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1976, § 19-30; Ord. of 8-20-2012(2) , § I)
Sec. 86-45. - Furnishing service.
The aldermanic board, by and through its agents and departments, is authorized, but not required, to furnish water service to each and every resident of the city. Each and every resident of the city is authorized and required to accept and pay for such service as provided in this article, in the event it is provided by the city.
(Code 1976, § 19-31)
Sec. 86-46. - Aid-to-construction fee for Rogers Street/Pine Barren Road and Godley Tract.
(a)
In order to connect to the city's water and/or wastewater utility system to be constructed to serve the Rogers Street/Pine Barren Road area of the city and the Godley Tract recently annexed into the city, all new customers located within such areas shall pay an aid-to-construction fee, in addition to any tap fee or other fees required, prior to connecting to the city's water system or wastewater system.
(b)
The aid-to-construction fees for the Godley Tract and the Rogers Street/Pine Barren Road area shall be in an amount per gallon of expected water consumption per day as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges.
(c)
The aid-to-construction fee shall be calculated according to the average daily consumption of each type of establishment. The standards in the table in this section shall be used in determination of water consumption. If the table in this section does not provide information for a particular application, the estimated water consumption shall be as calculated by the city manager or the city's consulting engineer.
EXPAND
Type of Structure Water Usage
in Gallons
Per Day
Apartment, one bedroom, per apartment 150
Assembly hall, per seat 3
Barbershop/beauty parlor, per chair 125
Bars:
Each employee 10
Each seat, excluding restaurant 40
Boardinghouse, per room 100
Bowling alley, per lane 50
Additional for bars, lounges and/or restaurant
Church, without daycare or kindergarten, per seat 5
Clinic, per exam room 150
Correctional institution, per bed 125
Daycare center, no meals, per person 15
Dental office, per chair 200
Department store, per 100 square feet 10
Drug store, per store: 500
Fountain service, add, per store 1,500
Meals, add, per seat 50
Factories, each employee, per employee: 25
With showers, add, per employee 10
With kitchen, add, per employee 15
Food service establishments with restrooms and kitchen:
(1) Restaurant, less than 24 hours per day operation, per seat
32
(2) Cafeteria, less than 24 hours per day operation, per seat 63
(3) Restaurant, 24 hours per day operation, per seat 100
(4) Drive-in restaurant, per car space 50
(5) Carry-out only, per 100 square feet 75
Hospital, per bed 250
Hotel, no kitchen, per room 100
Kindergarten, no meals, per person 15
Kitchen for daycare, kindergarten, per person 20
Laundry, self-service, per machine 200
Laundry, commercial, per machine 1,000
Mobile home park, per site 300
Motel, no kitchen, per room 100
Nursing home, per bed 150
Office, per 200 square feet 30
Physician's office, per exam room 200
Residences, includes two-bedroom apartment and larger, condominiums, duplexes, single-family dwelling, per dwelling unit
350
Schools:
(1) Boarding, per person 100
(2) Day, restrooms only, per person 15
(3) Day, restrooms and cafeteria, per person 20
(4) Day, restrooms, gyms and cafeteria, per person 25
Service stations:
(1) Car wash only, per stall 1,000
(2) Fuel and oil only, per pump 300
(3) Full service 850
Plus, per pump 300
Shopping center, per 100 square feet 10
Stadium, per seat 2
Theater, per seat 5
Travel trailer park, with independent water and sewer connection, per site
175
  (Ord. of 1-19-1998, § I; Ord. of 5-3-1999, § I)
State Law reference— Georgia Development Impact Fee Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-71-1.
Sec. 86-47. - Aid-to-construction fee for Bridgewater Subdivision.
(a)
In order to connect to the city's water and/or wastewater utility system constructed to serve the Bridgewater Subdivision and adjacent areas, all customers, except those customers within Bridgewater Subdivision, shall pay an aid-to-construction fee, in addition to any tap or other fees required, prior to connecting to the city's water system and/or wastewater system.
(b)
The aid-to-construction fee shall be set by the aldermanic board at $325.00 per equivalent residential unit (300 gallons per day) of expected water consumption per day for those customers that connect to the sewer system and/or $200.00 per equivalent residential unit for those customers that connect to the water systems.
(c)
The aid-to-construction fee shall be calculated according to the average daily consumption of each type of establishment. The standards in the table below shall be used in determination of water consumption. If the table below does not provide information for a particular application, the estimated water consumption shall be as calculated by the city manager or the city's consulting engineer.
EXPAND
Type of Structure Water Usage in Gallons Per Day
Apartment, one bedroom 150 per apartment
Assembly hall 3 per seat
Barber shop/beauty parlor 125 per chair
Bars—Each employee 10
and each seat (excluding restaurant) 40
Boardinghouses 100 per room
Bowling alley—Additional for bars, lounges/restaurants 50 per lane
Church (without daycare or kindergarten) 5 per seat
Clinic 150 per exam room
Correctional institution 125 per bed
Daycare center—No meals 15 per person
Dental office 200 per chair
Department store 10 per 100 square feet
Drugstore: 500 per store
Fountain service—add 1,500 per store
Meals—add 50 per seat
Factories—Each employee: 25 per employee
With showers—add 10 per employee
With kitchen—add 15 per employee
Food service establishments with restrooms and kitchen:
Restaurant, less than 24-hour/day operation
32 per seat
Cafeteria, less than 24-hour/day operation 63 per seat
Restaurant, 24-hour/day operation 100 per seat
Drive-in restaurant 50 per car space
Carry-out only 75 per 100 square feet
Hospital 250 per bed
Hotel, no kitchens 100 per room
Kindergarten, no meals 15 per person
Kitchen for daycare, kindergarten 20 per person
Laundry, self-service 200 per machine
Laundry, commercial 1,000 per machine
Mobile home park 300 per site
Motel, no kitchen 100 per room
Nursing home 150 per bed
Office 30 per 200 square feet
Physician's office 300 per exam room
Residences: includes 2 bedroom apartment and larger, condominiums, duplexes, single-family dwelling

350 dwelling unit
Schools:
(1) Boarding 100 per person
(2) Day, restrooms only 15 per person
(3) Day, restrooms and cafeteria 20 per person
(4) Day, restrooms, gyms and cafeteria 25 per person
Service stations:
(1) Car wash only 1,000 per stall
(2) Fuel and oil only 300 per pump
(3) Full service 850 plus 300 per pump
Shopping center 10 per 100 square feet
Stadium 2 per seat
Theater 5 per seat
Travel trailer park:
(1) With independent water and sewer connection
175 per site
(2) Without independent water and sewer connection
35 per site
  (Ord. of 12-4-2000, § I)
Secs. 86-48—86-65. - Reserved.
