Chapter 54 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Courts, ch. 38; traffic and vehicles, ch. 82.
State Law reference— Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).

Sec. 54-1. - Public drinking and drunkenness.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or consume alcoholic beverages upon any public area, including, but not limited to, any street, parking area, sidewalk, park or recreational area.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in an intoxicated condition on any public street or highway or within the curtilage of any private residence not in the exclusive possession of the person so intoxicated, or upon any railway passenger train or other public conveyance, or at or on any fair grounds, ball grounds, show grounds, park or at any other place or public gathering or assembly, where such drunkenness is caused by the excessive use of intoxicating beverages or opiates. Such drunkenness must be made manifest by boisterousness or indecent condition or acting, or by vulgar, profane or unbecoming language, or loud and violent discourse of the person so intoxicated.
(Code 1976, § 13-33)
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6.
Sec. 54-2. - Slingshots.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use or shoot any flip or slingshot in the city.
(Code 1976, § 13-9)
Sec. 54-3. - Fastening notices to poles and trees.
It shall be unlawful for any person to paste or in any other manner fasten any bills, advertisements or any other notice to any telephone, electric light or telegraph pole or to any shade tree in the city.
(Code 1976, § 13-7)
Cross reference— Utilities, ch. 86.
State Law reference— Unlawful placement of signs within right-of-way of public road, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-51.
Sec. 54-4. - Discharge of weapons.
It shall be unlawful for any person to fire a gun, pistol or other firearm, or fire or discharge any air gun, commonly known as a BB gun, in the city.
(Code 1976, § 13-8)
State Law reference— Discharge of firearm near public highway or street, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-103; discharge of firearm on property of another, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-104; discharge of firearm on Sunday, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-105; Georgia Firearms and Weapons Act, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-120 et seq.
Sec. 54-5. - Uninvited entry upon premises.
The practice of being in or upon a private residence in the city by a solicitor, peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant and transient vendor of merchandise, not having been requested or invited so to do by the owner or occupant of such private residence for the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise and/or for the purpose of disposing of and/or peddling or hawking such goods, wares and merchandise, is declared to be a nuisance, and shall be prohibited. This [section] shall not apply to non-profit organizations as defined by the Internal Revenue Service in accordance with United States Code Title 26, Chapter 501(c)(3).
(Code 1976, § 13-3; Ord. of 8-16-2010, § I)
State Law reference— Peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.; exception from local peddler or itinerant vendor licensing requirements for persons selling agricultural products, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-6; Transient Merchant Act of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.
Sec. 54-6. - Loitering or prowling.
(a)
A person commits the offense of loitering or prowling when he is in a place at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under circumstances that warrant a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity.
(b)
A person may be considered to be loitering or prowling if the person takes flight upon the appearance of a law enforcement officer, refuses to identify himself, or manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or any object. Unless flight by the person or other circumstances make it impracticable, a law enforcement officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm or immediate concern which would otherwise be warranted by requesting the person to identify himself and explain his presence and conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this section if the law enforcement officer failed to comply with the procedure set forth in this subsection, or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and would have dispelled the alarm or immediate concern.
(c)
A person commits the offense of loitering or prowling if such person is present upon city property without express permission or authority from the mayor or city manager after 10:00 p.m.
(d)
A person committing the offense of loitering or prowling shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1976, § 13-37; Ord. of 2-7-2005, §§ 1, 2)
State Law reference— Loitering or prowling, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-36.
Sec. 54-6.1. - Remaining or loitering in parks during certain hours prohibited.
No person shall remain or loiter in any city park between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. The prohibitions contained in the following shall not apply to:
(1)
Any person attending a meeting, entertainment event, recreation activity, dance or similar activity in such park provided such activity is approved, sponsored or co-sponsored by the recreation department.
(2)
Any police officer of city employee while engaged in the performance of his or her duties, or a security guard acting under authority of a special access approved by the recreation director or his or her designee.
At least one sign designating the park hours and warning violators that after hours presence is prohibited, shall be installed prominently in every city-owned park.
(Ord. of 7-16-2012(2) , § I)
Sec. 54-7. - Disorderly conduct.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the city to:
(1)
Knowingly do any act in such an unreasonable manner so as to disturb or alarm another, thereby provoking a breach of another's peace or the public peace.
(2)
Act in any public place where the conduct involved may reasonably be expected to be viewed by people other than members of the actor's family or household, in a disorderly manner or be guilty of any act against the public safety, morality, or decency.
(3)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any person is placed in fear of safety of his life, limb or health.
(4)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged.
(5)
Frequent any public place with the intent to obtain money from other persons by illegal and fraudulent schemes, tricks, artifices or devices.
(6)
Assemble for the purpose of engaging in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any place or from any persons, or to aid or abet therein.
(7)
Accost another person or force one's company upon another person.
(8)
Defecate or urinate on streets; lanes; sidewalks; in public, private, or commercial buildings; or in any park or playground, or on any property where the conduct involved may reasonably be expected to be viewed by people other than members of the actor's family or household.
(9)
Except where a sound equipment permit has been issued, operate or play a radio, amplifier, record player, tape player, musical instrument, or any other device where the sound can be heard beyond the confines of the building, premises, or vehicle where such instrument or device is operated or played or beyond the immediate vicinity of a person playing such instrument or equipment on the streets, lanes, sidewalks, parks, playgrounds or other open spaces.
(10)
Perform any of the following acts in a public place where the conduct involved may reasonably be expected to be viewed by people other than members of the actor's family or household:
a.
An act of sexual intercourse;
b.
A lewd exposure of the sexual organs;
c.
A lewd appearance in a state of partial or complete nudity; or
d.
A lewd caress or indecent fondling of the body of another person.
(b)
Every offense which is defined by the Official Code of Georgia as a crime thereunder and is punishable as a misdemeanor shall be and the same are hereby adopted as penal ordinances by the city.
(c)
Violations of any of the above provisions shall be punishable as provided in section 1-12 of this Code.
( Ord. No. 2020-12.A , § II, 12-21-20)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2020-12.A , § II, adopted Dec. 21, 2020, repealed the former § 54-7, and enacted a new § 54-7 as set out herein. The former 54-7 pertained to provisions saved from repeal.
Sec. 54-8. - Curfew.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any minor 16 years of age or younger to loiter, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, lanes, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places, public buildings, places of amusement, eating places, vacant lots or any place unsupervised by an adult having the lawful authority to be at such places, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. on any day and 6:00 a.m. of the following day; provided, however, that on Fridays and Saturdays, the effective hours are between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and provided, that the provisions of this section shall not apply in the following instances:
(1)
When a minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having lawful care and custody of the minor.
(2)
When the minor is upon an emergency errand by his or her parent or guardian or other adult person having the lawful care and custody of the minor.
(3)
When the minor is returning directly home from a school or church activity.
(4)
When the minor is returning directly home from lawful employment that makes it necessary to be in the above-referenced places during the proscribed period of time.
(5)
When the minor is attending or traveling directly to or from activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of speech, freedom of assembly, or free exercise of religion.
(6)
When the minor is in a motor vehicle with parental consent for normal travel, with interstate travel through the City of Pooler excepted in all cases from the curfew.
(7)
When the minor is on the property of or the sidewalk adjacent to the building in which he or she resides.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to permit or by inefficient control allow a violation of this section by a minor in his or her custody.
(c)
Violations of any of the above provisions shall be punishable as provided in section 1-12 of this Code.
( Ord. No. 2020-12.A , § II, 12-21-20)
