ARTICLE III. - DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS, WEEDS, TRASH AND JUNK[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Section I of an ordinance adopted Oct. 1, 2001, repealed the former Art. III, §§ 42-71—42-84, which pertained to similar subject matter and derived from § I(1)—(14) of an ordinance adopted Mar. 21. 1994. Section II of said ordinance enacted a new Art. III as set out herein.
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 22.
State Law reference— Ordinances relating to repair, closing and demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation or buildings or structures that imperil health, safety or morals, O.C.G.A. § 36-61-11; authority to demolish structures where drug crimes are committed, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7; authority to repair, close or demolish unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7; county or municipal ordinances relating to unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9 et seq.

Sec. 42-71. - Authority and scope.
This article is enacted pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7 et seq., as amended from time to time, and is referenced as the "statute." O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7 specifies the scope and purpose of this article. All powers and authorities granted to public officers and public authorities by the statute are incorporated by reference so as to be assumed, delegated and granted pursuant to this article.
(Ord. of 10-1-2001(2), § II)
Sec. 42-72. - Definitions.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Director means the building official or any public officer as defined in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-8(10) delegated with authority by the city council to enforce this article. The building official or his designee shall be the public officer who shall exercise the primary responsibilities prescribed by this article and shall be the public officer defined in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-8(10).
Parties in interest means the persons defined in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-8(8).
Person means any natural person, corporation, partnership (general or limited), estate, trust or other entity or artificial person, or combination thereof.
Public authority means such agency or official as defined in O.C.G.A. § 42-2-8(9).
(b)
The definitions set forth in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-8 are incorporated herein by reference in this article.
(Ord. of 10-1-2001(2), § II)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 42-73. - Unfit buildings or structures.
It is found and declared that in the city there exist dwellings or other buildings or structures which are unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business occupancy or use due to dilapidation and not in compliance with the applicable standard building codes or general nuisance laws which have the effect of increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, or other calamities; which lack adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities; or where other conditions exist rendering such dwellings, buildings, or structures unsafe or unsanitary or dangerous or detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare of the people of the city. It is also found that there are vacant, dilapidated dwellings, buildings, or structures in which drug crimes are being committed. It is also found that a public necessity exists for the repair, closing, or demolition of such dwellings, buildings, or structures.
(Ord. of 10-1-2001(2), § II)
Sec. 42-74. - Duty to construct and maintain.
It is the duty of the owner of every dwelling, building, structure, or property within the city to construct and maintain such dwelling, building, structure, or property in conformance with applicable codes or ordinances.
(Ord. of 10-1-2001(2), § II)
Sec. 42-75. - Building inspector to enforce.
The building inspector of the city is hereby designated and appointed to exercise the powers prescribed by this article and by O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7 et seq.
(Ord. of 10-1-2001(2), § II)
Sec. 42-76. - Inspection and hearing.
Whenever a request is filed with the building inspector by a public authority or by at least five residents of the city, charging that any dwelling, building, structure, or property is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and is being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the building inspector shall make an investigation or inspection of the specific dwelling, building, structure, or property. If the building inspector's investigation or inspection identifies any dwelling, building, structure, or property that is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsafe or unsanitary conditions, the building inspector may issue a complaint in rem against the lot, tract, or parcel of real property on which such dwelling, building, or structure is situated, or where such public health hazard or general nuisance exists and shall cause summons and a copy of the complaint to be served on the owner and parties in interest in such dwelling, building, or structure. The complaint shall identify the subject real property by appropriate street address and official tax map reference; identify the owner and parties in interest; state with particularity the factual basis for the action; and contain a statement of the action sought by the building inspector to abate the nuisance. The summons shall notify the owner and parties in interest that a hearing will be held before the municipal court of the city, at a date and time certain. A copy of the complaint and notice of the date and time of the hearing shall be provided to all adjacent land owners. Such hearing shall be held not less than 15 days nor more than 45 days after the filing of such complaint in the municipal court. The owner and parties in interest shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person or by attorney and offer testimony at a time and place fixed for hearing.
(Ord. of 10-1-2001(2), § II)
Sec. 46-77. - Order of municipal court.
If, after such hearing, the court determines that the dwelling, building, or structure in question is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the municipal court shall state in writing findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner and any parties in interest that have answered the complaint or appeared at the hearing an order:
(1)
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the said dwelling, building, or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter, or improve such dwelling, building, or structure so as to bring it into full compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violation and, if applicable, to secure the structure so that it cannot be used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or
(2)
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the said dwelling, building, or structure in order to bring it into full compliance with applicable codes relevant to the cited violations cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to demolish and remove such dwelling, building, or structure and all debris from the property.
For purpose of this section, the municipal court shall make its determination of "reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure" without consideration of the value of the land on which the structure is situated; provided, however, that costs of the preparation necessary to repair, alter, or remove a structure may be considered. Income and financial status of the owner shall not be a factor in the court's determination. The present value of the structure and the costs of repair, alteration, or improvement may be established by affidavits of real estate appraisers with a state appraiser classification as provided by state law, qualified building contractors, or qualified building inspectors without actual testimony presented. Costs of repair, alteration, or improvement of the structure shall be the costs necessary to bring the structure into compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violations.
(Ord. of 10-1-2001(2), § II)
Sec. 42-78. - Placarding.
If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair or demolish the dwelling, building, or structure, the building inspector may cause such dwelling, building, or structure to be repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed or demolished. The building inspector shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the dwelling, building, or structure a placard with the following words:
"This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business use and does not comply with the applicable codes or has been ordered secured to prevent its use in connection with drug crimes or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions. The use or occupation of this building is prohibited and unlawful".
(Ord. of 10-1-2001(2), § II)
Sec. 42-79. - Salvaged materials.
If the building inspector has the building demolished, reasonable effort shall be made to salvage reusable materials for credit against the cost of demolition. The proceeds of any moneys received from the sale of salvaged materials shall be used or applied against the cost of the demolition and removal of the structure, and proper records shall be kept showing application of sale proceeds. Any such sale of salvaged materials may be made without the necessity of public advertisement and bid. The building inspector and governing authority are relieved of any and all liability resulting from or occasioned by the sale of any such salvaged materials, including, without limitation, defects in such salvaged materials.
(Ord. of 10-1-2001(2), § II)
Sec. 42-80. - Lien against property.
The amount of the cost of demolition, including all court costs, appraisal fees, administrative costs incurred by the tax commissioner, and all other costs necessarily associated with the abatement action, including restoration to grade of the real property after demolition, shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred.
(Ord. of 10-1-2001(2), § II)
Sec. 42-81. - Enforcement of lien.
This lien shall attach to the real property upon the filing of a certified copy of the order requiring repair, closure, or demolition in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county. The lien shall be superior to all other liens on the property, except liens for taxes, to which it shall be inferior. After filing a copy of the order with the clerk, the building inspector shall forward a copy of the order and a final statement of costs to the county tax commissioner. It shall be the duty of the tax commissioner to collect the amount of the lien in conjunction with the collection of ad valorem taxes on the property and to collect the amount of the lien as if it were a real property ad valorem tax, using all methods available for collecting real property ad valorem taxes. The tax commissioner shall remit the amount collected to the city. Thirty days after imposition of the lien, the unpaid lien amount shall bear interest and penalties in the same amount as applicable to interest and penalties on unpaid real property ad valorem taxes.
(Ord. of 10-1-2001(2), § II)
Secs. 42-85—42-115. - Reserved.
