Chapter 24 - OFFENSES[1]

Sec. 24-1. - Unauthorized cable television service; theft of service.
(a)
It is unlawful for any person to make any unauthorized connection whether physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively or otherwise, with any part of a duly licensed or franchised television cable system for the purpose of enabling himself or others to receive any television signals, radio signals, pictures, programs, sounds or any other information or intelligence transmitted over such cable system without payment to the cable system.
(b)
It is unlawful for any person, without the consent of such television cable system to willfully tamper with, remove, or injure any cable, wires, or other equipment used for the distribution of television signals, radio signals, pictures, programs, sounds, or any other information or intelligence transmitted over such cable system or systems.
(c)
It is unlawful for any person to construct, extend, operate, or maintain a cable communications system within the unincorporated areas of the county without first obtaining a franchise from the board of commissioners.
(d)
Violators of the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of the section is committed, continued, or permitted shall be deemed a separate offense. Upon conviction of any such violation such violator shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $200.00 or 90 days imprisonment.
(e)
Any equipment or structure erected or maintained and any work commenced or continued in violation of this section constitutes a public nuisance, and the county attorney on direction of the board of commissioners shall institute necessary legal proceedings for the abatement, removal or enjoinment thereof in the manner provided by law and shall take such other steps as may be necessary to accomplish these ends.
(Ord. of 2-8-1983)
State Law reference— Avoiding or attempting to avoid payment for telecommunications services, O.C.G.A. § 46-5-2.
