Chapter 22 - NUISANCES[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 22-1—22-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - UNFIT STRUCTURES

Sec. 22-19. - Findings, declarations and scope.
(a)
It is found and declared that within the county there is the existence and occupancy of dwellings and other structures which are unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business occupancy or use and are inimical to the welfare and are dangerous and injurious to the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the county; and that a public necessity exists for the repair, closing, or demolition of such dwellings, buildings, and structures.
(b)
It is further found and declared that there is in existence with the county a condition or use of real estate which renders adjacent real estate unsafe or inimical to safe human habitation, and that such use is dangerous and injurious to the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the county, and that a public necessity exists for the repair of such condition or the cessation of such use which renders the adjacent real estate unsafe or inimical to safe human habitation.
(c)
It is further found and declared that there exists within the county dwellings, buildings, and structures which are unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial or business uses due to dilapidation and defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, and other calamities; lack of adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities; and other conditions rendering such dwellings, buildings and structures unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous, or detrimental to the health, safety or welfare, or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the county, or vacant, dilapidated dwellings, buildings and structures in which drug crimes are being committed.
(d)
It is further declared that the county exercise its police power granted to it by the Constitution and laws of the state, to repair, close or demolish the dwellings, buildings, and structures in the manner provided by law.
(e)
It is further found that unfit and unsafe dwellings, buildings and structure conditions as described and defined in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7 et seq. exist in the county, and that the accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth and other unsanitary and unsafe conditions which create a public health hazard and a general nuisance to those persons residing in the vicinity of same also exist in the county, and that an ordinance relating to such dwellings, buildings and structures, accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth, and other unsanitary and unsafe conditions within the unincorporated areas of the county is necessary for the health, welfare, safety and well-being of the residents of the county.
(f)
This article is limited to the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. of 5-13-1993, § 1)
Sec. 22-20. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Closing means securing and causing a dwelling, building or structure to be vacated.
Drug crime means an act which is a violation of the Georgia Controlled Substances Act codified as O.C.G.A. § 16-13-1 et seq.
Dwellings, buildings and structures means any building or structure or part thereof used and occupied for human habitation, commercial, industrial, or business uses, or intended to be so used, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith and also includes any building or structure of any design, to include abandoned or vacant buildings or structures. However, the term "dwellings, buildings and structures" does not mean or include any farm, any building or structure located on a farm, or any agricultural facility or other building or structure used for the production, growing, raising, harvesting, storage, or processing of crops, livestock, poultry, or other farm products.
Owner means the holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
Parties in interest means persons in possession of property and all individuals, associations, and corporations that have an interest of record in the county where the property is located in a dwelling, building or structure, including executors, administrators, guardians and trustees.
Public authority means any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of any department or branch of the government of the county or the state relating to health, fire, or building regulations or to other activities concerning dwellings, or structures in the county.
Public officer means the county administrator.
Repair means closing a dwelling, building, or structure or the clearing or removal of debris, trash, and other materials present and accumulated which create a health or safety hazard in or about any dwelling, building, or structure.
(Ord. of 5-13-1993, § 2)
Sec. 22-21. - Powers of county administrator.
The county administrator is authorized to exercise such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions of this article, including the following powers in addition to others herein granted:
(1)
To investigate the dwelling conditions in the unincorporated areas of the county in order to determine which dwellings, buildings, or structures therein are unfit for human habitation or are unfit for current commercial, industrial, or business use, or which are vacant, dilapidated, and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes.
(2)
To administer oaths and affirmations, to examine witnesses, and to receive evidence.
(3)
To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations; however, such entries shall be made in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession.
(4)
With the approval of the county board of commissioners to appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents, and employees as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this article.
(5)
To delegate any of his functions and powers of this article to such officers and agents as he may designate.
(Ord. of 5-13-1993, § 5)
Sec. 22-22. - Complaint, notice and hearing.
(a)
Whenever a request is filed with the county administrator by a public authority or by at least five residents of the unincorporated area of the county charging, or whenever it appears to the public officer (on his own motion) that any dwelling, building or structure is:
(1)
Unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use;
(2)
Vacant, dilapidated, and being used in connection with the commission of a drug crime;
(3)
Private property where an accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth, or other unsanitary or unsafe conditions exist which create a public health hazard or a general nuisance to those persons residing in the vicinity.
(b)
The public officer shall, if his preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of, and any parties in interest in, such dwelling, building, or structure a complaint stating the charges in that respect.
(c)
The complaint shall include a notice that a hearing will be held before the county administrator (or his designated agent) at a place within the county, fixed not less than ten days nor more then 30 days after the serving of the complaint; that the owner and any parties in interest shall be given the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the county administrator or his designated agent.
(Ord. of 5-13-1993, § 3(b))
Sec. 22-23. - Findings; issuance of order.
(a)
If, after such notice and hearing, the county administrator determines that the dwelling, building or structure under consideration is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use, or is vacant, dilapidated, and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes, he shall state in writing his findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order:
(1)
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the dwelling, building, or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner or parties in interest, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter, or improve such dwelling, building, or structure so as to render it fit for human habitation or for current commercial, industrial, or business use or to vacate and close the dwelling, building or structure as a human habitation; or
(2)
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the dwelling, building, or structure cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner or parties in interest, within the time specified in the order, to remove demolish such dwelling, building, or structure.
(b)
In no event shall the county board of commissioners or public officer require removal or demolition of any dwelling, building, or structure except upon a finding that the cost a repair, alteration, or improvement thereof exceeds one-half the value such dwelling, building, or structure will have when repaired to satisfy the minimum requirements of this article.
(Ord. of 5-13-1993, § 3(c))
Sec. 22-24. - Abatement by county for repairable building; placarding.
(a)
If the owner or parties in interest fail to comply with an order to vacate and close or demolish the dwelling, building, or structure, the county administrator may cause such dwelling, building or structure to be repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed or demolished; and the public officer may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any building, dwelling, or structure so closed a placard with the following words:
"This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business use; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use is prohibited and unlawful."
(b)
It is unlawful for any person to remove such notice without permission of the county administrator, or for any reason to enter or occupy the building except for the purpose of making the required repairs, alterations or improvement or for demolishing the building or structure.
(Ord. of 5-13-1993, § 3(d))
Sec. 22-25. - Building to be removed or demolished; ordinance authorizing required.
If the owner fails to comply with any order to remove or demolish the dwelling, building, or structure, the county administrator may cause such dwelling, building, or structure to be removed or demolished; however, the duties of the county administrator shall not be exercised until the county board of commissioners shall have by ordinance ordered the county administrator to proceed to effectuate the purpose this article with respect to the particular property or properties which the public officer shall have found to be unfit for human habitation or unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use, which property or properties shall be described in the ordinance.
(Ord. of 5-13-1993, § 3(e))
Sec. 22-26. - Costs and lien.
(a)
The amount of the cost of such vacating and closing or removal or demolition by the county administrator shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred. The lien shall attach to the real property upon the payment of all costs of demolition by the county and the filing of an itemized statement of the total sum of the costs by the county administrator in the office of the clerk of superior court of the county on a lien docket maintained by the clerk for such purposes or on the general execution docket if there is not a separate docket for such liens.
(b)
If the dwelling, building, or structure is removed or demolished by the county administrator, he shall sell the materials of such dwellings, buildings, or structures and shall credit the proceeds of such sale against the cost of the removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the superior court of the county by the county administrator, shall be secured in such manner as may be directed by such court and shall be disbursed by such court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of such court.
(c)
Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the county to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Ord. of 5-13-1993, § 3(f))
Sec. 22-27. - Collection of lien.
The county may enforce the collection of any amount due on such lien for removal or demolition of dwellings, buildings, or structures only in the following manner:
(1)
The owner or parties at interest shall be allowed to satisfy the amount due on such lien by paying to the county, within 30 days after the perfection of the lien, a sum of money equal to 25 percent of the total amount due and by further paying to the county the remaining balance due on such lien, together with interest at the rate of seven percent per annum, in three equal annual payments, each of which shall become due and payable on the anniversary date of the initial payment made as hereinabove prescribed.
(2)
Should the property upon which such lien is perfected be sold, transferred, or conveyed by the owner or parties at interest at any time prior to the termination of the three-year period, then the entire balance due on such lien shall be due and payable to the county.
(3)
Should the amount due on such lien, or any portion thereof, be unpaid after the passage of the three-year period, or upon the occurrence of the contingency provided for in subsection (2) of this section, the county may enforce the collection of any amount due on such lien for alteration, repair, removal or demolition of dwellings, buildings, or structures in the same manner as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-358 and other applicable state statutes. This procedure shall be subject to the right of redemption by any person having any right, title or interest in or lien upon the property, all as provided by state law.
(Ord. of 5-13-1993, § 3(g))
Sec. 22-28. - Determination.
(a)
The county administrator may determine that a dwelling, building, or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use if he finds that conditions exist in such building, dwelling, or structure which are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety, or morals of the occupants of such dwelling, building, or structure; of the occupants of neighborhood dwellings, buildings, or structures; or of other residents of the unincorporated areas of the county. Such conditions may include the following (without limiting the generality of the foregoing):
(1)
Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, or other calamities;
(2)
Lack of adequate ventilation, light or sanitary facilities;
(3)
Dilapidation;
(4)
Disrepair;
(5)
Structural defects;
(6)
Uncleanliness;
(7)
Buildings or structures whose interior or exterior bearing walls or other vertical structural members list, lean or buckle to such extent as to weaken the structural support of such member or members below the minimum required by the building codes of the county, if the county has a building code in force, and if not, then by the state minimum standards codes;
(8)
Buildings or structures that have parts which are so attached that they are likely to fall and injury persons or property;
(9)
Buildings or structures which in whole or in part are so dilapidated, decayed, damaged from any cause or deteriorated in any manner that they are likely to cause injury to persons or property;
(10)
Buildings or structures which are likely to cause injury to persons or property because they contain weakened, defective or deteriorated footings or foundations, floorings or floor supports, ceilings or ceiling supports, or roof or chimney;
(11)
Buildings or structures that have visible soil erosion adjacent to or under any structural support;
(12)
Buildings or structures which are likely to cause injury to persons or property in the event of catastrophe, windstorm, fire, earthquake, or panic because of inadequate stairways, elevators, escalators, fire escapes or other means of egress as required by the building and safety codes of the county, if the county has any such codes, and if not, then by the state minimum standards codes;
(13)
Buildings or structures which are likely to cause injury to persons or property because they have defective or inadequate plumbing, improper sanitation facilities, insufficient ventilation, or lack of running water, as required by the building code or other ordinance of the county, if any, and if not, then by the state minimum standards codes;
(14)
Buildings or structures which constitute fire hazards as defined in the applicable ordinance of the county and which are thereby dangerous to persons or property; of not applicable ordinances exist, then as defined by the latest edition of state minimum standards codes;
(15)
Buildings or structures which are vacant, and because of lack of proper maintenance, deterioration or decay, or fire hazards, are otherwise dangerous to human life, safety, health or morals.
(b)
The county administrator may determine, as provided by this article, that a dwelling, building or structure is vacant, dilapidated, and being used in connection with the commission of a drug crime upon personal observation or report of a law enforcement agency accompanied by evidence of drug crimes being committed therein.
(Ord. of 5-13-1993, § 4)
Sec. 22-29. - Service of complaints and orders.
(a)
Complaints or orders issued by a public officer pursuant to this article shall, in all cases, be served upon each person in possession of the property, each owner, and each party in interest, by the sheriff or lawful deputy of the county of the person's residence, or the public officer or his agent, or any citizen of this state. The return of service signed by the sheriff or his lawful deputy, or the public officer or his agent or an affidavit of service executed by any citizen of this state, reciting that a copy of such complaint or orders was served upon each person in possession of the property, each owner, and each party in interest personally or by leaving such copy at the place of each the persons residence, shall be sufficient evidence as to the service of such person in possession, owner and party in interest.
(b)
If any of the owners and parties in interest shall reside out of the county, service shall be perfected by causing a copy of such complaint or orders to be served upon such party or parties by the sheriff or any lawful deputy of the county of the residence of such party or parties, or such service may be made by any citizen; and the return of such sheriff or lawful deputy or the affidavit of such citizen, that such party or parties were served either personally or by leaving a copy of the complaint or orders at the residence, shall be conclusive as to such service.
(c)
Nonresidents of this state shall be served by publishing a copy of the complaint or orders to the attention of the nonresidents once each week for two successive weeks in a newspaper that has general circulation in this county and in which sheriffs notices are published. In addition, a copy of such complaints or orders shall be posted in a conspicuous place on premises affected by the complaints or orders. Where the address of such nonresidents is known, a copy of such complaints or orders shall also be mailed to them by registered or certified mail.
(d)
In the event either the owner or any party in interest is a minor or an insane person or person laboring under disabilities, the guardian or other personal representative of such person shall be served personally as provided in subsection (b) or (c) of this section, and if such guardian or personal representative resides outside the county or is a nonresident, he shall be served as provided for in subsection (b) or (c) of this section in such cases. If such minor or insane person or person laboring under disabilities has no guardian or personal representative or lives outside the county or is a nonresident, service shall be perfected by serving such minor or insane person personally or by leaving a copy at the place of his residence which shall be sufficient evidence as to the service of such person or persons; in the case of other persons who live outside the county or are nonresidents, service shall be perfected by serving the judge of the probate court of the county wherein such property is located, who shall stand in the place of and protect the rights of such minor or insane person or the probate judge may appoint a guardian ad litem for such person.
(e)
In the event the whereabouts of any owner or party in interest is unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the public officer in the exercise of reasonable diligence and the public officer shall make an affidavit to that effect, then the service of such complaint or order upon such persons shall be made in the same manner as provided in subsection (c) of this section or service may be perfected upon any person, firm or corporation holding himself or itself out as an agent for the property involved.
(f)
A copy of such complaints or orders shall also be filed in the proper office or offices for the filing of lis pendens notice in the county in which the dwelling, building, or structure is located and such filing of the complaints or orders shall have the same force and effect as other lis pendens notices provided by law. Any such complaints or orders or an appropriate lis pendens notice may contain a statement to the effect that a lien may arise against the described property and that an itemized statement of such lien is maintained on the general execution docket or other lien docket maintained by the clerk of county superior court.
(Ord. of 5-13-1993, § 6)
Sec. 22-30. - Injunctions.
Any person affected by an order issued by the county administrator may petition the superior court for an injunction restraining the county administrator from carrying out the provisions of the order and the court may, upon such petition, issue a temporary injunction restraining the county administrator pending the final disposition of the cause, provided, however, that such person shall present such petition to the court within 15 days of the posting and service of the order of the public officer. De novo hearings shall be had by the court on petitions within 20 days. The court shall hear and determine the issues raised and shall enter such final order or decree as law and justice may require; however, it shall not be necessary to file bond in any amount before obtaining a temporary injunction under this section.
(Ord. of 5-13-1993, § 7)
Sec. 22-31. - Taking of unfit buildings.
Nothing in this article shall be construed as preventing the owner of any property from receiving just compensation for the taking of such property by the power of eminent domain under state law or as permitting any property to be condemned or destroyed except in accordance with the police power of the state.
(Ord. of 5-13-1993, § 8)
Sec. 22-32. - Authority to use revenues.
The county may make such appropriations from its revenues as it may deem necessary and may accept and apply grants or donations to assist it in carrying out the provisions of this article and the powers created and granted herein.
(Ord. of 5-13-1993, § 9)
Sec. 22-33. - Conflict of article with state law.
This article is intended to activate, put into effect, and comply in all respects with, O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-7 through 41-2-17, incorporated herein by reference for all intents and purposes. In the event of any conflict between this article and the statutes, the provisions of the statutes shall control.
(Ord. of 5-13-1993, § 12)
