Chapter 12 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 12-1—12-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND RESPONSE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 12-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Curfew means a regulation prohibiting the appearance and presence of any person not otherwise exempt under the provisions of this chapter or state law in certain public areas during specified hours.
Disaster means any natural, technological, civil emergency or threat thereof that causes or has the potential to cause damage of sufficient severity and magnitude to result in a declaration of a state of emergency declared by a county, the state governor or the president of the United States.
Emergency means any natural or manmade event requiring the activation of the local emergency operations plan.
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin, caused by enemy attack, sabotage, acts of domestic or international terrorism, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination, requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, radiological action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation:
(1)
Firefighting services;
(2)
Police services; emergency medical services;
(3)
Rescue;
(4)
Engineering;
(5)
Warning services;
(6)
Communications;
(7)
Defense from radiological, chemical, biological, and other special weapons to include weapons of mass destruction;
(8)
Evacuation of persons from stricken areas;
(9)
Emergency welfare services;
(10)
Consequence management functions to include victim services;
(11)
Emergency transportation;
(12)
Plant protection;
(13)
Temporary restoration of public utility services; and
(14)
Other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
Fees means any fee or rate charged by the county for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, temporary land use permits, and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and clean up of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. The term "fees" does not include those fees collected by the county on behalf of the federal or state government or those fees charged by the county pursuant to a federal or state statute or regulation.
Local emergency means the existence of conditions of extreme peril to the safety of persons and property within the territorial limits of the county caused by natural disasters, riots, civil disturbances, or other situations presenting major law enforcement and other public safety problems, which conditions are or are likely to be beyond the control of the services, personnel, equipment, and facilities of that political subdivision of the state and which require the combined forces of other political subdivisions of the state to combat.
Local emergency management director means the person nominated by the local governments and appointed by the state emergency management director to implement the local emergency operations plan.
State of emergency means a condition declared by the governor, or by an authorized local governing official pursuant to authority granted in this chapter or by state law, when in his judgment the threat or actual occurrence disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
State emergency management director means the person appointed by the governor to head the state emergency management agency.
Subsequent recovery period means the period of time that the disaster emergency continues to cause disruptions in the area impacted by the disaster emergency. The subsequent recovery period shall not exceed six months after a state of emergency declaration is terminated unless extended by official action of the governing authority of the county.
Temporary dwelling means any mobile or easily movable home, trailer, recreational vehicle as well as any other structure not otherwise permitted by the zoning regulations in a particular zoning district, or any other non-permanent structure used in lieu of permanent structure that has been damaged or destroyed.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008(1), § I; Ord. of 4-1-2008(2), § 2; Ord. of 4-1-2008(3), § 2)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. §§ 38-3-3, 36-69-2.
Secs. 12-20—12-41. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY AND PLAN[2]

Sec. 12-42. - Joint local organization for emergency management established.
In agreement with the governing officials of the cities within the county, there is herby established the Jeff Davis Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008(1), § II(intro.))
Sec. 12-43. - Nomination of local director; duties.
(a)
The chairperson of the county commissioners, with the concurrence of officials of the cities within the county, shall nominate, for appointment by the state emergency management director, a director of the county emergency management agency.
(b)
Upon appointment, the local emergency management agency director shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and operations of the local organization for emergency management, subject to the direction and control of the executive officer or governing body and shall serve at the pleasure of such executive officer or governing body.
(c)
When appointed, the local emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of the county on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assist local officials in organizing county departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with county and city departments, the county emergency operations plan for emergency functions. Such plan will be in consonance with the state emergency operations plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities within the county for approval, and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
Maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports, to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
Submit reports as required by governmental officials in keeping with good management practices (e.g., financial, daily activities, etc.).
(6)
Obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operations center.
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating staff during periods of emergency, and under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008(1), § II(intro.), (a)-(g))
State Law reference— Authority for nomination of local director of emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 12-44. - Assignment of emergency functions.
(a)
The county emergency management agency shall be established around existing county and city departments. The emergency support functions and department and agency assignments are as follows:
EXPAND
Emergency Support Function (ESF) Department/Agency
P = Primary S = Secondary
Transportation (P) County road department (S) City public works
Communications (P) County 911/Dispatch (S) Sheriff/city police
department
Public works and engineering (P) County road department (S) City public works
Firefighting (P) County fire department (S) City fire department
Emergency Management (P) County Emergency Management Agency (S) County/city governments
Mass care, housing and human services (P) County DFACS (S) Red Cross Chapter
Resource support (P) County Emergency Management (S) County/city government
Public health and medical services (P) County public health (S) Local hospital, EMS
Search and rescue (P) County fire/rescue (S) City fire/rescue
Hazardous materials (P) County fire department (S) City FD, City of Douglas FD
Agriculture and natural resources (P) County extension agent (S) County Emergency Management Agency
Energy (P) County Emergency Management Agency (S) Local utilities
Public safety and security services (P) County sheriff (S) City police department
Long term recovery and mitigation (P) County Emergency Management Agency (S) County/city government
External affairs (P) County government (PIO) (S) EMA (PIO)
NOTE: The department and agency assignments listed are examples only. It is the responsibility of participating municipalities to make assignments based upon local capabilities. As appropriate to the local organization, functions can be assigned to existing departments or may be separate; provided, however that functions should be assigned consistent with the local emergency operations plan.
  (b)
Heads of county departments listed in the table in subsection (a) of this section are responsible for developing appropriate annexes and standard operating procedures to the emergency operations plan for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes and standard operating procedures will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local emergency operations plan for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008(1), § III)
Sec. 12-45. - Emergency powers of county board chairperson and mayors.
In the event of a manmade or natural disaster or any other emergency which may effect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the chairperson of the county board of commissioners separately, or jointly with the mayor of the City of Hazlehurst and the City of Denton or in their legally appointed successors, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such periods as such emergency or disaster continues power to:
(1)
Appropriate and expend funds, execute contracts, and to obtain and distribute equipment, materials, and supplies for emergency management purposes;
(2)
Provide for the health and safety of persons and property, including emergency assistance to the victims of any emergency or disaster resulting from manmade or natural causes or enemy attack and to direct and coordinate the development of emergency management plans and programs in accordance with the policies and plans set by the federal and state emergency management agencies;
(3)
Appoint, employ, remove, or provide, with or without compensation, chiefs of services, warning personnel, rescue teams, auxiliary fire and police personnel, and other emergency management workers;
(4)
Establish a primary and one or more secondary control centers to serve as command posts during an emergency or disaster;
(5)
Subject to the order of the governor or the chief executive of the political subdivision, assign and make available for duty the employees, property, or equipment of the subdivision relating to firefighting, engineering, rescue, health, medical and related services, and to police, transportation, construction, and similar items or services for emergency management purposes, within or outside of the physical limits of the subdivision;
(6)
Acquire, temporarily or permanently, by purchase, lease, or otherwise, sites required for installation of temporary housing units for disaster victims; and to enter into whatever arrangements, including purchase, of temporary housing units and payment of transportation charges, which are necessary to prepare or equip such sites to utilize the housing units.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008(1), § IV)
Sec. 12-46. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the county, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article, may serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county officers and employees; provided, however, that immunity does not apply in cases of willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008(1), § V)
Sec. 12-47. - Violations and penalties.
Any violation of any provision of this division or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this article, shall upon conviction be punished as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008(1), § VI)
Secs. 12-48—12-67. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - ALTERNATIVE REGULATIONS DURING EMERGENCY

Sec. 12-68. - Relocation of government meetings and other conduct of business.
Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting state or the United States, the affairs and business of the county may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of the county, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of county, all actions taken by the local governing body shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the county. Such meetings may be called by the presiding officer or any two members of the governing body without regard to or compliance with time-consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008(2), § 1(1))
Sec. 12-69. - Purchasing and public works contracts.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county board of commissioners, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county board of commissioners, their designee or the emergency interim successor may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest, responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; provided, however, that any public works contract entered into pursuant to this subsection shall be entered on the minutes of the county as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008(2), § 1(2))
Sec. 12-70. - Code enforcement.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county board of commissioners, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county board of commissioners, their designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of this Code or any portion thereof, if the emergency or disaster is of such nature that immediate action outside the Code is required, such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare, and such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008(2), § 1(3))
Sec. 12-71. - Fees.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county board of commissioners, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county board of commissioners, their designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the area impacted by the disaster or emergency.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008(2), § 1(4))
Sec. 12-72. - Temporary dwellings.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county board of commissioners, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county board of commissioners, their designee or the emergency interim successor may issue temporary mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer or other person deemed qualified by the county sovereign authority and the plans are approved by the county health department and the county building and inspections department, or other persons deemed qualified by the counties sovereign authority to approve such plan. The temporary permit shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the governing authority or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period for an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008(2), § 1(5))
Secs. 12-73—12-102. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - EMERGENCY CURFEW

Sec. 12-103. - Institution and applicability.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county chairperson or his designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may adopt a resolution instituting a curfew when it is determined necessary to protect and safeguard the people and property of the county. The resolution instituting the curfew shall include the dates and hours that the curfew shall be in effect. All of the territory of the unincorporated county shall be subject to the terms of the curfew, unless otherwise specified in the resolution.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008(3), § 1)
Sec. 12-104. - Compliance with curfew required; places in which presence is prohibited.
It shall be prohibited for any person, other than exempt individuals, to appear in public in the territory subject to the curfew, including, but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, parks, public buildings or any other public places in all or a delineated part of unincorporated the county during the stated hours of the curfew.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008(3), § 3)
Sec. 12-105. - Persons exempt from curfew.
Unless otherwise specified in the resolution implementing the curfew, individuals engaged in the provision of designated, essential services, such as fire, law enforcement, emergency medical services and hospital services, military services, utility emergency repairs. The curfew resolution may, in the discretion of the governing authority, also exempt regular employees of local industries traveling to and from their jobs with appropriate identification, news media employees, properly registered and licensed building and repair contractors performing activities related to construction, repair, renovation or improvement of buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster or emergency.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008(3), § 2)
Sec. 12-106. - Penalties.
Any individual violating this division, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008(3), § 4)
Secs. 12-107—12-125. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - AMBULANCE SERVICES

Sec. 12-126. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Advance life support means the provision of care and procedures included in the paramedic courses and scope of practice, as approved by the state department of human resources.
Advanced life support ambulance means an ambulance with adequate equipment, supplies, and pharmaceuticals to provide advanced life support care as outlined in the paramedic curriculum and the paramedic scope of practice, as approved by the state department of human resources. An advanced life support ambulance must be staffed by two state certified emergency medical technicians, one of whom must be a state licensed paramedic at all times. As a minimum, an advanced life support ambulance must be equipped with a cardiac monitor with external defibrillation/pacing and a transport ventilator.
Nonemergency transport service means a patient transport service that strictly limits its service exclusively to the transport of non-emergency patients.
Paramedic means a person currently licensed by the state department of human resources as an emergency medical technician-paramedic.
Point of origin means the location where the patient to be transported is located or the location from which the patient is to be picked up by the ambulance service.
(Ord. of 9-24-2008, § 1)
Sec. 12-127. - Administration, inspection, and compliance.
(a)
The county administrator or his designee shall serve as administrator of this article for the purposes of inspection and approving compliance.
(b)
Each ambulance service covered by this article must provide a letter outlining compliance with this article prior to engaging in services covered by this article; failure to do so will be a violation of this article. A sample letter may be provided by the county administrator.
(c)
Every ambulance service covered by this article may be inspected at any time, with or without prior notice, to ensure compliance with this article. The inspection may include an inspection of ambulance, equipment, supplies, and credentials of personnel. Inspections shall be made by the county administrator or the administrator's designee for the purpose of enforcing compliance.
(d)
A copy of this article (and any future amendments) will be furnished by the administrator or his designee to each ambulance service subject to this article.
(Ord. of 9-24-2008, § 2)
Sec. 12-128. - Applicability.
Except as otherwise provided in this article, this article shall apply to any ambulance service being offered or furnished to any point of origin within the boundaries of the county and to all ambulance services having a base of operation in the county or having ambulances stationed in the county.
(Ord. of 9-24-2008, § 3)
Sec. 12-129. - Exempt services.
(a)
Any ambulance service being operated by an agency of the federal government or ambulance service being provided under a direct contract with the federal government, if request for such service is made by the federal government, is exempt from this article.
(b)
Any ambulance service temporarily rendering assistance in the case of a catastrophe or emergency in which the capabilities of local services operating in the county are exceeded or an ambulance service being provided under a valid mutual aid agreement is exempt from this article.
(c)
Any ambulance service providing inter-facility neonatal transportation services is exempt from this article.
(d)
This article shall not apply to non-emergency transport services which limit their services exclusively to the transport of non-emergency patients.
(Ord. of 9-24-2008, § 4)
Sec. 12-130. - General operational regulations.
(a)
All ambulance services, ambulances, and personnel shall at all times, be operated in compliance with all county, state and federal laws, rules, regulations, ordinances.
(b)
All ambulance services being offered to a point of origin within this county shall be capable of providing advanced life support utilizing an advanced life support ambulance.
(c)
In addition to providing advanced life support, all primary duty ambulances shall be equipped and have full-time personnel trained to provide adult and pediatric intra-osseous IV access.
(d)
Any ambulance service offering services for point of origin within this county shall staff a primary duty ambulance and be available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
(e)
If the primary duty ambulance engages in inter-facility transports to destinations outside of the county, then the provider must provide a second backup ambulance staffed in the same manner as required for the primary duty ambulance, located within the limits of this county with the capability to respond in no more than 30 minutes to a local request for ambulance service. Backup ambulances are required to provide advanced life support utilizing an advanced life support ambulance. Back up ambulances are exempt from the requirements in subsection (c) of this section.
(f)
Any ambulance service offering service for points of origin within the county must have a permanent base of operation located within the county and a local or toll-free number for service requests.
(g)
All ambulance services offering services for points of origin within the county must not advertise or encourage the use of any other telephone number other than 9-1-1 for emergency calls.
(Ord. of 9-24-2008, § 5)
Sec. 12-131. - Indemnification and insurance.
(a)
Each person, firm, or corporation owning or operating an ambulance service within this county shall save, defend, indemnify and hold harmless the county and all residents of the county for any loss or damage caused by, or resulting from the operations of, the ambulance service.
(b)
Each privately owned ambulance service must have and keep in force at all times a general liability insurance policy with limits of not less than $1,000,000.00 which covers both patients being transported and third parties. A copy of such policy must be provided to the county administrator or his designee prior to beginning service in this county; and each ambulance service subject to the ordinance shall provide the county administrator with a copy of each renewal of the policy. Failure to keep such a policy in force at all times will be a violation of this article.
(Ord. of 9-24-2008, § 6)
Sec. 12-132. - Penalty.
The maximum fine for any ambulance service found in violation of this article shall be $1,000.00 per occurrence. The maximum fine for any individual person found in violation of this article shall be $250.00 per occurrence.
(Ord. of 9-24-2008, § 7)
Secs. 12-133—12-162. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - 9-1-1 COMMUNICATIONS SURCHARGES[3]

Sec. 12-163. - Wireless telecommunications.
The county imposes a 9-1-1 charge of $1.50 per month per wireless connection provided to each telephone subscriber whose billing address is within the jurisdiction of the county.
(Res. of 7-10-1997; Res. of 10-8-1998; Res. of 11-9-2006)
Sec. 12-164. - Voice over internet protocol (VoIP).
The county imposes a 9-1-1 charge of $1.50 per month on each voice over internet protocol telecommunications connection (VoIP) subscribed to by subscribers whose billing address is within the jurisdiction of the county.
(Res. of 10-16-2008)
Sec. 12-165. - Prepaid wireless service.
(a)
Levied. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2, the county imposes a prepaid wireless 9-1-1 charge of $0.75 on every prepaid wireless retail transaction occurring within the jurisdiction of the public safety answering point as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 46-5-122.
(b)
Collection. Prepaid wireless 9-1-1 charges collected by sellers shall be remitted to the commissioner of the state department of revenue at the times and in the manner provided by O.C.G.A. ch. 48-8 (State Sales and Use Taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-8-1 et seq.) respect to the sales and use tax imposed on prepaid wireless calling service.
(c)
Disposition of funds. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.20(5), funds received by the county from charges imposed by this section shall be deposited in the emergency telephone system fund maintained by the county pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134 and kept separate from general revenue of the county, and all such funds shall be used exclusively for the purposes authorized by O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134(e).
(Res. of 6-20-2011)
