Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated the "Code of the City of Helen, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1987, § 1-101)
Charter reference— Ordinance codification, § 2.26(b), (c).
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances of the city, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless they are inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city commission or the context clearly requires otherwise.
Generally. In the interpretation and application of any provision, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions than other provisions, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Advice and consent. "Advice and consent of the city commission" means an affirmative vote of the majority of the entire city commission.
Charter. "Charter" means the charter of the city.
City. "City" means the City of Helen, Georgia.
City commission. "City commission" or "commission" means the city commission of the city.
Code. "Code" means the Code of the City of Helen, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. When a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted, and if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the person having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(3).
County. "County" means White County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears in this Code requiring an officer or employee of the city to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize such officer or employee to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act.
Gender. Any word importing the masculine gender shall extend to and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Joint authority. All words purporting to give a joint authority to three or more city officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared in the provisions giving the authority.
May. The word "may" is to be construed as being directory and not mandatory.
Misdemeanor. "Misdemeanor" means any violation of the state criminal law other than a felony.
Must. "Must" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Number. Every word importing the singular number only shall extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing, and every word importing the plural number only shall extend and be applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
Oath. The word "oath" shall include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner" applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety of the whole or of part of such building or land.
Person. "Person" means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of this state, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Personal property. "Personal property" includes every specie of property except real property.
Preceding, following. "Preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. "Property" includes real, personal, and mixed estates and interests.
Real property. "Real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Reasonable time or notice. "Reasonable time or notice" means only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act required.
References to city officials, agencies, etc. References made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only are references to the officials, boards, commissions and departments of this city.
Shall. "Shall" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Sidewalk. "Sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curbline and improved walkways.
Signature, subscription. "Signature" or "subscription" includes a mark intended as such when the person cannot write.
State. "State" means the State of Georgia.
Street. "Street" means any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, viaduct or bridge, and the approaches thereto, within the city.
Technical and nontechnical words. All words and phrases are to be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law are to be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
Tenant or occupant. "Tenant" or "occupant," when applied to a building or to land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the present or past tense include the future as well as the present and past.
Week. "Week" shall mean seven days.
Writing or written. "Writing" and "written" includes printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year. "Year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1987, § 1-103)
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections, history notes, references to Code.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Cross references and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, or sections are to the chapters, articles and sections of this Code unless otherwise specified.
(Code 1987, § 1-104)
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former ordinance, clause or provision unless it shall be therein so expressly provided. The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1987, § 1-105)
Sec. 1-5. - Amendments to Code.
modified
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect any section or subsection of this Code shall be numbered consecutively, but shall refer specifically to the section or subsection affected, and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions shall be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages. The subsequent ordinances, as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code by the city commission.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "Section _____ of the Code of the City of Helen, Georgia, is amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full.
(c)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language shall be used: "Code of the City of Helen, Georgia, is amended by adding a new section to be numbered section _____, which section shall read as follows:…." The new section shall then be set out in full.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number in the following language: "Section (chapter or article) _____ of the Code of the City of Helen, Georgia, is repealed."
(Code 1987, § 1-106)
Charter reference— Ordinance adoption, § 2.22.
Sec. 1-6. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper
with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the city commission.
(Code 1987, § 1-107)
Sec. 1-7. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided, a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, imprisonment for a term not exceeding 30 days or both, or labor for the city on the streets, sidewalks or other public places for a period not exceeding 60 days. With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(d)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
(Code 1987, § 1-108; Ord. No. 11-3-03, 4-5-2011)
Charter reference— Penalties for ordinance violations, § 4.14.
Cross reference— Municipal court, § 18-26 et seq.
State Law reference— Limitations on penalties, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6.
Sec. 1-8. - Severability.
If any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, section or subsection of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, sections or subsections of this Code.
Sec. 1-9. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any ordinance:
(1)
Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money.
(2)
Authorizing the issuance of bonds or any evidence of indebtedness.
(3)
Authorizing or approving a contract.
(4)
Granting a franchise.
(5)
Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving or widening any street or public way.
(6)
Establishing or altering the grades of any street.
(7)
Approving or amending a budget or making appropriations.
(8)
Providing personnel regulations not codified in this Code.
(9)
Amending the charter.
(10)
Levying or imposing taxes that are not codified in this Code.
(11)
Establishing salaries or other benefits for officers or employees of the city not in such Code.
(12)
Dealing with special assessments.
(13)
Annexing property into the city.
(14)
Approving plats or rezoning property.
(15)
Whose purpose has been accomplished.
(16)
Which is special although permanent in effect.
(17)
Which is temporary although general in effect.
Sec. 1-10. - Code does not affect prior offenses, rights.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or allowing any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance of the city in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-11. - Provisions deemed continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions of this Code, insofar as they are substantially the same as ordinance provisions previously adopted by the city relating to the same subject matter, shall be construed as restatements and continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
