Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Building official, § 5-1 et seq.; civil defense director, § 7-3; electrical department, § 9-1; planning commission, § 21-1; administrator of flood control land use authority, § 21-19; area planning and development commission, § 21-42 et seq.; personnel, Ch. 20; sanitation department, § 25-19; taxation, Ch. 27; superintendent of utilities, § 29-3; administration of zoning ordinance, App. A, § 101 et seq.; board of zoning appeals, App. A, § 111 et seq.; administration of subdivision ordinance, App. B, Art. IV.
State Law reference— Uniform standards for audits of municipalities, Ga. Code Ann., § 23-1302; personal liability of officers, Ga. Code Ann., § 69-208; liability of municipal corporation, Ga. Code Ann., § 69-301; liability for acts of officers, Ga. Code Ann., § 69-307.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - City departments.
The mayor, as the chief executive of the city, responsible to the council and citizens for all operations of the city government, shall directly supervise all departments performing services for the city. The city is organized into six (6) departments. These are the administrative department, police department, fire department, street department, sanitation department and the gas, water and sewage department.
(Ord. of 4-22-74, § 1)
Sec. 2-2. - Fiscal year.
The city shall operate on a fiscal year which shall begin on the first day of August and end on the last day of July.
Cross reference— Taxation, Ch. 27.
Sec. 2-3. - Limitation on purchases.
Any purchases involving more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) shall be made on a competitive bid basis, and purchases involving less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) shall be made on a purchase order approved by the city manager and the department head concerned issued by the city clerk.
(Code 1967, § 2-6; Ord. of 7-10-06)
State Law reference— Competitive bids required for state contracts, Ga. Code Ann., § 89-914.
Secs. 2-4—2-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Charter reference— Mayor and city council, § 2-1 et seq.; beginning of term, §§ 3-3, 3-4.

Sec. 2-20. - Office of mayor full time.
There is hereby created the office of a full-time mayor, the mayor to have such powers as are provided in the City Charter, enacted in March, 1978.
(Ord. of 10-9-78, § I; Ord. No. 1-78, § I, 10-9-78)
Sec. 2-21. - Administration of oath.
Each mayor and councilman elected to service for the city will be sworn into office on the second Monday in December next following his respective election and same will assume their respective responsibilities and duties.
(Ord. of 10-9-72, § 8)
Sec. 2-22. - Compensation of mayor.
The compensation of the mayor shall be a minimum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per month and a maximum of eight hundred dollars ($800.00) per month, the said salary of the mayor to be set by the council each year at the first meeting after the general election.
(Res. of 5-14-73; Ord. of 10-9-78, § II; Ord. No. 1-78, § II, 10-9-78; Ord. of 11-22-04)
Sec. 2-23. - Compensation of members of council.
The salary and compensation of the council shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per month.
(Res. of 5-14-73; Ord. of 10-9-78, § III; Ord. No. 1-78, § III, 10-9-78; Ord. of 11-22-04)
State Law reference— Authority of municipal governing authority to fix the compensation of its members, Ga. Code Ann., § 69-1019.
Sec. 2-23.1. - Increase in compensation.
The increasing compensation shall not be effective until after the taking of office of those elected at the next regular municipal election, which is held immediately following the date on which the ordinance action to increase such compensation is taken.
(Ord. No. 1-78, § IV, 10-9-78)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 1-78, § IV, adopted Oct. 9, 1978, being nonamendatory of the Code, has been included herein as § 2-23.1 at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 2-24. - Compensation for attending council meetings and service on committees.
(a)
For each regular council meeting attended, each councilman shall receive as compensation for his work on the various advisory committees of the city government the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00), and the mayor shall receive the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each regular council meeting attended for his work on these committees. This compensation is in addition to the regular salary of the mayor and council. A councilmember who is absent from a council meeting due to a personal illness, hospitalization, sickness or death in the immediate family shall be paid the one hundred dollars ($100.00) compensation for the meeting. The maximum meetings that a councilmember can be absent and still be compensated will be three (3) per year provided that they meet the above criteria. This compensation is authorized for the services of the mayor and council on committees, which function to run the city and are in lieu of a city administrator.
(b)
The city clerk is authorized and hereby directed to start paying the above stated compensation as follows: The mayor's compensation under this section shall be paid on a rotating basis from the water and sewer fund, the gas fund and the general fund. The councilman who is the chairman of the water and sewer department shall be paid out of the water and sewer fund and the councilman who is chairman of the gas department shall be paid from the gas fund. The rest of the councilmen shall be paid out of the general fund.
(c)
The clerk is directed to pay this compensation on a monthly basis.
(Res. of 1-27-75; Amend. of 3-15-82; Ord. of 1-25-01, § I)
Charter reference— Police committee required, § 5-7.
Sec. 2-25. - Mayor or mayor pro tem to act for finance chairman.
The mayor or mayor pro tem shall act in the absence of the finance chairman.
(Code 1967, § 2-2)
Charter reference— Powers and duties of mayor and mayor pro tem, § 2-10.
Sec. 2-26. - Council meetings.
The regular meetings of the mayor and council shall be held on the second and fourth Mondays of each month, at 6:00 p.m. at the city hall. Providing, that if the regular meeting falls on a legal holiday, the meeting shall take place on the next secular day, at the same hour. Adjourned meetings may be held at such times and places as the mayor and council may determine.
(Code 1967, § 2-1; Ord. of 2-27-06)
Charter reference— Meetings of mayor and city council generally, § 2-7; quorum, procedure, § 2-8.
State Law reference— Meetings open to the public, Ga. Code Ann., § 40-3301 et seq.
Secs. 2-27—2-42. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

Sec. 2-43. - Term of department heads.
The term of office of department heads appointed at the beginning of a regular term shall be one (1) year.
Charter reference— Authority for above section, § 5-6.
Sec. 2-44. - City clerk, duties.
It shall be the duty of the city clerk to keep accurate and correct minutes of the meetings of the city council, to prepare copies of charges in criminal cases in the municipal court, to issue subpoenas for witnesses in cases pending in the municipal court, to properly enter all cases on the court docket and to receive the tax returns for the city and collect both the ad valorem and special taxes in accordance with the laws, rules and regulations of the city, to issue licenses to parties doing any business for which privilege a special tax is assessed and collected. It shall be the further duty of the city clerk to notify the chief of police of the failure or refusal of any party to pay any special tax or license fee under the laws of the city in order that the chief of police may make cases against such delinquent taxpayers for doing business without a license.
(Code 1967, § 2-4)
Charter reference— Council to provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings, § 2-8.
Cross reference— Administration of oath to business licensees, § 15-15.
State Law reference— Minutes of meetings open to public inspection, Ga. Code Ann., § 40-3301 et seq.
Sec. 2-45. - Use of city owned vehicles, equipment, by city employees.
No city vehicles, machinery or equipment are to be used by any employee at any time, except during regular working hours or when an employee is so authorized when on call for service to the city.
(Code 1967, § 2-8)
Cross reference— Traffic, Ch. 28.
Sec. 2-45.1 - Lending or borrowing of equipment by city officers and employees prohibited; penalty for violation.
(a)
No heavy city equipment of any form or fashion shall be lent out to or borrowed by any private individuals and the mayor and council and all city employees are forbidden and prohibited from lending city equipment to any private individuals, persons, firms or any other kinds of business entities.
(b)
No city employee shall be allowed to use any city equipment for his or her personal purposes and no member of the council or the mayor shall be allowed to use any city equipment for their own personal purposes.
(c)
Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
(Ord. No. 2-79, §§ 1—3, 2-26-79)
Editor's note— Since Ord. No. 2-79, §§ 1—3, adopted Feb. 26, 1979, did not expressly amend this Code, inclusion as § 2-45.1 has been at the editor's discretion.
Sec. 2-46. - City supplies.
An employee of the city who is under bond shall be in charge of the city supply house and shall maintain a perpetual inventory of all city supplies. Each department shall keep a daily log of all jobs and materials used. This log will be submitted each day to the office of the city clerk.
(Mo. of 7-16-73)
Sec. 2-47. - Work on private property.
Whenever any work is done by the city on private property, a charge for this work shall be made by the department superintendent, depending on the time involved and the equipment used on the job.
(Mo. of 10-29-75)
Sec. 2-48. - Conduct of trial for removal of city officer.
In the event of the impeachment of an officer of the city, the trial shall be conducted in the manner employed by the courts, both the council and the accused having the right to introduce evidence and to be represented by counsel, it being the duty of the city attorney to act as prosecuting officer in such trials.
Charter reference— Authority for above section, § 5-8.
Secs. 2-49—2-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - CITY MANAGER[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of 4-22-02, §§ I—IX did not specifically amend the Code, and have been included herein as §§ 2-61—2-69 at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 2-61. - Creation of office.
The office of city manager is hereby created.
(Ord. of 4-22-02, § I)
Sec. 2-62. - Appointment of city manager.
The city manager shall be appointed by majority vote of the city council for an indefinite term. The manager shall be chosen by the council solely on the basis of executive and administrative qualification with special reference to actual experience in or knowledge of accepted practice in respect to the duties of the office hereinafter set forth. At the time of this appointment, the appointee need not be a resident of the city or state, but during the manager's tenure of office, shall reside within the city. No council member shall receive such appointment during the term for which the council member shall have been elected nor within one (1) year after the expiration of the council member's term.
(Ord. of 4-22-02, § II)
Sec. 2-63. - Removal of the city manager.
The city council may remove the city manager at any time by a majority vote of its members. If requested, a public hearing shall be granted by the council within thirty (30) days following notice of removal. During the interim, the council may suspend the manager from duty, but shall continue the manager's salary and, if the removal becomes final, shall pay said salary for one (1) calendar month following the final removal date.
(Ord. of 4-22-02, § III)
Sec. 2-64. - Powers and duties of the city manager.
The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city, may head one or more departments, and shall be responsible to the city council for the proper administration of all affairs of the city. To that end, the manager shall have the power and shall be required to:
(1)
Appoint and, when necessary for the good of the service, suspend or remove all officers and employees of the city except as otherwise provided by the city charter or law. The city manager may authorize the head of a department or office to appoint, suspend, or remove subordinates in such department or office.
(2)
Prepare the budget annually and submit it to the council together with a message describing the important features and be responsible for its administration after adoption.
(3)
Prepare and submit to the council as of the end of the fiscal year a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the city council for the preceding year.
(4)
Keep the council advised of the financial condition and future needs of the city, and make such recommendations as may be deemed desirable.
(5)
Recommend to the governing body a standard schedule of pay for each appointed office and position in the city service, including minimum, intermediate and maximum rates.
(6)
Recommend to the governing body (from time to time), adoption of such measure as may be deemed necessary or expedient for the health, safety or welfare of the community or for the improvement of administrative services.
(7)
Direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices and agencies of the city, except as otherwise provided by the existing charter or by law.
(8)
Consolidate or combine offices, positions, departments or units under his/her jurisdiction, with the approval of the city council. The city manager may be the head of one (1) or more departments.
(9)
Attend all meetings of the city council unless excused there from and take part in the discussion of all matters coming before the council. The manager shall be entitled to notice of all regular and special meetings of the council.
(10)
Supervise the purchase of all materials, supplies, and equipment for which funds are provided in the budget; let contracts necessary for operation or maintenance of the city services for amounts up to and including five hundred dollars ($500.00), receive sealed bids for the purchases or contracts in excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00) and present them to the council.
(11)
See that all laws and ordinances are duly enforced.
(12)
Investigate the affairs of the city or any department or division thereof. Investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the administration of the government of the city, and in regard to service maintained by the public utilities in the city, and see that all franchises, permits and privileges granted by the city are faithfully observed.
(13)
Devote his/her entire time to the discharge of all official duties.
(14)
Perform such other duties as may be required by the council, not inconsistent with the city Charter, law or ordinances.
(Ord. of 4-22-02, § IV)
Sec. 2-65. - Council not to interfere with appointments or removals.
Neither the council nor any of its members shall direct or request the appointment of any person to, or removal from, office by the city manager or any of the manager's subordinates, or in any manner take part in the appointment or removal of officers and employees in the administrative services of the city. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the council and its members shall deal with the administration solely through the city manager and neither the council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any subordinates of the city manager, either publicly or privately.
(Ord. of 4-22-02, § V)
Sec. 2-66. - Emergencies.
In case of accident, disaster or other circumstances creating a public emergency, the city manager may award contracts and make purchases for the purpose of meeting said emergency; but the manager shall file promptly with council a certificate showing such emergency and the necessity for such action, together with an itemized account of all expenditures.
(Ord. of 4-22-02, § VI)
Sec. 2-67. - Bond.
The city manager shall furnish a surety bond to be approved by the council, said bond to be conditioned on the faithful performance of all the manager's duties. The premium of the bond shall be paid by the city.
(Ord. of 4-22-02, § VI)
Sec. 2-68. - Compensation.
The city manager shall receive such compensation as the council shall fix from time to time by ordinance or resolution.
(Ord. of 4-22-02, § VIII)
Sec. 2-69. - Vacancy.
Any vacancy in the office of the city manager shall be filled within sixty (60) days after the effective date of such vacancy.
(Ord. of 4-22-02, § IX)
Secs. 2-70—2-75. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - CODE OF ETHICS

Sec. 2-76. - Intent.
It is essential to the proper administration and operation of the City of Nashville that the members of its governing authority be, and give the appearance of being, independent and impartial; that public office not be used for private gain; and that there be public confidence in the integrity of the governing authority. The governing authority finds that the public interest requires that they protect against such conflicts of interest by establishing appropriate ethical standards with respect to the conduct of the members of the governing authority in situations where a conflict may exist.
(Ord. of 4-30-07)
Sec. 2-77. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the term:
(1)
Complaint means a written sworn statement filed with the mayor or mayor pro-tem containing specific allegations of misconduct by a member; provided, however, such allegations must be filed within sixty (60) days of discovery of the alleged misconduct.
(2)
Interest means a pecuniary benefit accruing to a governing authority or any member of his/her family as a direct result of any payment received from the city. A governing authority or member of his/her immediate family shall be deemed to have directly benefited from any payment from the city if any such person shall own at least ten (10) percent of the entity receiving such payment.
(3)
Governing authority or member of the governing authority means the mayor or any council member of the city and any member appointed to any board or commission of the city.
(4)
Immediate family members are the council member's spouse, children, parents, brothers and sisters.
(Ord. of 4-30-07)
Sec. 2-78. - Prohibitions.
No member of the governing authority shall:
(1)
By conduct give reasonable basis for the impression that any person can improperly influence him/her or unduly enjoy his/her favor in the performance of official acts;
(2)
Directly or indirectly request, exact, receive, or agree to receive a gift, loan, favor, promise, or thing of value for him/herself or another person if it could reasonably be considered to influence the member in the discharge of official duties;
(3)
Disclose or otherwise use confidential information acquired by virtue of his/her official position for his/her or another person's private gain;
(4)
Use his/her official position to attempt to secure privileges that are not available to the general public;
(5)
Engage in, accept employment with, or render services for any private business or professional activity when such employment or rendering of services is adverse to and incompatible with the proper discharge of official duties;
(6)
Engage in any activity or transaction that is prohibited by law now existing or hereafter enacted which is applicable to him/her by virtue of being a member of the governing authority;
(7)
Use his/her position to request or require an employee to:
a.
Perform any work outside the employee's normal course of municipal employment;
b.
Purchase goods or services to be used for personal, business, or political purposes; and
c.
Work for the member personally without paying the employee just compensation;
(8)
Use government property of any kind for other than officially approved activities, nor shall he/she direct employees to use such property for any purposes other than those officially approved;
(9)
Use his/her position in any way to coerce, or give the appearance of coercing, another person to provide any financial benefit to him/her or persons having an interest.
Prohibition (2) of this section shall not apply in the case of:
a.
An occasional nonpecuniary gift of insignificant value;
b.
An award publicly presented in recognition of public service;
c.
A commercially reasonable loan or other financial transaction made in the ordinary course of business by an institution or individual authorized by the laws of Georgia to engage in the making of such a loan or financial transaction;
d.
Campaign contributions made and reported in accordance with Georgia law.
Prohibition (5) of this section shall not apply to a member of the governing authority who is a licensed professional and appears on behalf of any applicant in such professional capacity so long as disclosures required by section 2-129 are made to the board or commission chairperson thirty (30) days prior to any action being taken, and the member is associated with the project at the time the initial application is filed.
(Ord. of 4-30-07)
Sec. 2-79. - Disclosure of conflicts of interest.
An appointed member of the governing authority who has an interest that he/she has reason to believe may be affected by his/her official acts or actions or by the official acts or actions of the governing authority shall disclose the precise nature of such interest by written or verbal statement ten (10) days prior to, if possible, but always before the governing authority's taking official action on a matter affecting such interest and abstain from discussion and voting. An elected member of the governing authority shall disclose the nature of any interest he/she has at the time such matter is presented to mayor and council for discussion. Such written or verbal statement shall be recorded into the minutes of the meeting and thus become part of the public record. Following any disclosure made pursuant to this section the member shall refrain from all ex-parte communications with other members regarding the application in which he/she has an interest.
(Ord. of 4-30-07)
Sec. 2-80. - Disqualification.
A member of the governing authority shall disqualify him/her from participating in any official act or action of the city which results in a pecuniary benefit to the member or a business or activity in which he/she has an interest, when such benefit is not available to the public at large.
(Ord. of 4-30-07)
Sec. 2-81. - Prohibited contracts.
The city shall not enter into any contract involving services or property with a member of the governing authority or with a business in which a member of the governing authority has an interest. Provided, however, this section shall not apply to contracts entered into:
(1)
After scaled competitive bids, together with a disclosure of the nature of the members of the governing authority's interest.
(2)
For emergency situations, provided that the city manager discloses the contract and explains the emergency at the next regular meeting of the governing authority.
(3)
In accordance with applicable Georgia law, including O.C.G.A. 16-10-6.
(Ord. of 4-30-07)
Sec. 2-82. - Complaints.
Any person having a complaint against any member of the governing authority for an alleged ethics violation shall file in writing a verified complaint setting forth the particular facts and circumstances which constitute the alleged violation against the governing authority. The complaint shall be filed with the mayor, or in the event the complaint regards the mayor, shall be filed with the mayor pro-tem. Upon receipt of a complaint, or in the event the complaint regards the mayor, the mayor pro-tem shall appoint three (3) members of council, who, along with the city attorney, shall constitute an investigating committee to determine whether the complaint sets forth significant facts and circumstances so as to warrant a hearing before the board of ethics. In the event the complaint does not set forth sufficient facts to constitute an alleged violation and is found unjustified, frivolous or patently unfounded, it shall be dismissed and the complainant notified immediately. In the event the complaint is found to state sufficient facts to warrant a hearing before the board of ethics, the board shall be appointed as provided herein.
(Ord. of 4-30-07)
Sec. 2-83. - Board of ethics.
(a)
Composition of the board of ethics;
(1)
The board of ethics of the city shall be composed of five (5) residents of the city to be appointed as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection. Each member of the board of ethics shall have been a resident of the city at least one (1) year immediately preceding the date of taking office and shall remain a resident of the city while serving as a member of the board of ethics. No person shall serve as a member of the board of ethics if the person has, or has had within the preceding one-year period, any interest in any contract, transaction, or official action of the city.
(2)
The mayor and council members shall designate one (1) qualified citizen each and three (3) members at large to provide a pool of ten (10) individuals who have consented to serve as a member of such board of ethics and who will be available for a period of two (2) years to be called upon to serve in the event a board of ethics is appointed.
(3)
The city manager shall maintain a listing of these ten (10) qualified citizens. Should the investigating committee determine a complaint warrants a hearing before the board of ethics, the mayor and council, at the first public meeting after such determination, shall draw names randomly from the listing of qualified citizens until the specified five (5) members of the board of ethics have been appointed. Such board will elect one (1) of its members to serve as chairman.
(4)
The members of the board of ethics shall serve without compensation. The governing authority of the city shall provide meeting space for the board of ethics. Subject to budgetary procedures and requirements of the city, the city shall provide the board of ethics with such supplies and equipment as may be reasonably necessary for it to perform its duties and responsibilities.
(b)
The constituted board of ethics shall have the following duties and powers:
(1)
To establish procedures, rules and regulations governing its internal organization and conduct of its affairs;
(2)
To hold a hearing within fifteen (15) business days after the receipt of complaint. Failure to hold a hearing within the specified time shall result in dismissal of the complaint as to the transaction and shall prevent re-filing if a complaint arises in the same incident for at least a period of six (6) months;
(3)
To prescribe forms, approved by the city attorney, for the disclosure required in this article and to make available to the public information disclosed as provided in this section;
(4)
To receive and hear complaints of violations of the standards required by this article;
(5)
To make such investigation and response to a complaint as it deems necessary to determine whether any person has violated any provisions of this article.
(6)
To hold such hearings and make such inquiries as deemed necessary to investigate and rule upon complaints;
(7)
To report its findings to the governing authority for such action on as the governing authority deems appropriate.
(Ord. of 4-30-07)
Sec. 2-84. - Service of complaint; hearings and disposition of complaints.
The board of ethics as appointed herein set forth shall cause the complaint to be served on the member of the governing authority charged as soon as practicable. Service may be by personal service or by certified mail, return receipt requested. A hearing shall be held within fifteen (15) business days after filing of the complaint. The board of ethics shall conduct the hearing in accordance with the procedures and regulations it establishes but, in all circumstances, the hearing shall include the taking of testimony and the cross-examination of witnesses. The decision of the board of ethics shall be rendered to the mayor and council within five (5) business days after completion of the hearing.
(Ord. of 4-30-07)
Sec. 2-85. - Penalty and member rights.
(a)
Any member of the governing authority who knowingly violates any provision of the code of ethics provided in this article shall be subject to public reprimand or censure by the governing authority of the city.
(b)
At any hearing held by the board of ethics, the member of the governing authority who is subject of inquiry shall have the right to written notice of the allegations at least ten (10) business days before a hearing, to be represented by counsel, to heat and examine the evidence and witnesses and to present evidence and witnesses in opposition or in extenuation.
(Ord. of 4-30-07)
Sec. 2-86. - Appeals.
(a)
Any member of the governing authority or the complainant adversely affected by these findings of the board of ethics may obtain judicial review of such decision as provided in this section.
(b)
An action for judicial review may be commenced by filing an application for a writ of certiorari in the Superior Court of Berrien County within fifteen (15) business days after the decision of the board of ethics. The filing of such application shall act as supersedes.
(Ord. of 4-30-07)
Sec. 2-87. - Repeal of conflicting provisions.
All ordinances and resolutions or parts thereof previously adopted by the mayor and council establishing a code of ethics for the governing authority of the City of Nashville in conflict with this article and not preserved hereby, are hereby repealed.
(Ord. of 4-30-07)
