SECTION 1. - ENACTMENT, SHORT TITLE, JURISDICTION, PURPOSE

1-1. - Enactment Clause.
The mayor and council of the City of Millen, under the authority of the General Planning and Zoning Enabling Act of 1957, Georgia L. 1957, page 420, no. 358; and the amendments thereto, hereby ordains and enacts into law the following sections.
1-2. - Short Title.
These regulations shall be known and may be cited as the "Zoning Ordinance for the City of Millen."
1-3. - Long Title.
An ordinance regulating within the corporate area of City of Millen, Georgia, the location; height, bulk; number of stories and size of buildings and other structures; the sizes of yards, courts, and other open spaces; the density and distribution of population; and the uses of buildings, structures, and the land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, conservation, sanitation, protection against floods, public activities, and other purposes, creating districts for said purposes and establishing the boundaries thereof; defining certain terms used herein; providing for the methods of administration and amendment; providing penalties for violations; repealing conflicting ordinances; and for other purposes.
1-4. - Jurisdiction.
These regulations shall govern the use of all land and the developments thereof within the corporate limits of the City of Millen.
1-5. - Purpose.
The purpose of these regulations shall be to promote the proper location, height, bulk, number of stories and size of buildings and other structures, the sizes of yards, courts, and other open spaces, the density and distribution of population, and the uses of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, conservation, sanitation, protection against floods, public activities, and other purposes in accordance with a comprehensive plan for the City of Millen so as to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to promote health and the general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to prevent urban sprawl; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements; to promote desirable living conditions and the sustained stability of neighborhoods; to protect property against blight and depreciation; to secure economy in governmental expenditures; to conserve the value of buildings and to encourage the most appropriate use of land, buildings, and structures throughout the City of Millen; and for other purposes.
