Chapter 6 - BUILDING CODE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to adopt technical codes, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(12); construction standards generally, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.; minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Adoption of technical and construction code by reference.
Unless otherwise provided for by subsequent ordinance or another provision of this Code, the technical building and construction codes are adopted by reference and incorporated into this Code as if set out fully herein, including the administration and appendix chapters also contained in those codes as well as the state minimum codes enumerated under O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20, as now or hereafter revised or modified pursuant to state law.
(Code 1992, § 6-1-1)
Sec. 6-2. - Provisions for enforcement.
The mayor and council of the city shall, by resolution establish provisions for the enforcement of the state minimum codes herein adopted as the City of Millen Minimum Codes, including procedural requirements, provisions for hearings, provisions for appeals from decisions of local inspectors, and any other provisions or procedures necessary to the proper administration and enforcement of the requirements of said codes.
(Code 1992, § 6-1-2)
Sec. 6-3. - Penalties.
Unless other penalty is expressly provided by law, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punished as provided in section 1-6.
(Code 1992, § 6-1-3)
Sec. 6-4. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building official or building inspector means the qualified building official or qualified building inspector as designated by the city.
Sec. 6-5. - Enforcement.
(a)
The building official is hereby authorized to enforce within the city the provisions of this chapter and the state minimum codes adopted herein.
(b)
The building official is further authorized to render interpretations of this Code and the adopted state codes and to adopt policies and procedures in order to clarify the application of their provisions. Such interpretations, policies and procedures shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of this chapter. Such policies and procedures shall not have the force and effect of law and shall not have the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this Code or in the adopted state codes.
Sec. 6-6. - References to officials in adopted technical codes.
Where reference is made to the duties of certain officials named within the technical codes which are adopted by reference in this chapter, then that official of the city as designated by the city manager who has duties corresponding to those of the named official in said technical code, shall be deemed to be the responsible official insofar as enforcing the provisions of that technical code are concerned.
Secs. 6-7—6-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WATER CONSERVATION—NEW CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 6-31. - Definitions.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial building means any type of building other than residential.
Construction means the erection of a new building or the alteration of an existing building in connection with its repair or renovation or in connection with making an addition to an existing building, and shall include the replacement of a malfunctioning, unserviceable or obsolete faucet, showerhead, toilet, or urinal in an existing building.
Plumbing fixtures means a device that receives water, waste, or both and discharges the water, waste, or both into a drainage system. The term includes a kitchen sink, utility sink, lavatory, bidet, bathtub, shower, urinal, toilet, water closet, or drinking water fountain.
Residential building means any building or unit of a building intended for occupancy as a dwelling but shall not include a hotel or motel.
Toilet means any fixture consisting of a water-flushed bowl with a seat, used for the disposal of human waste.
Urinal means any fixture consisting of a water-flushed bowl used for the disposal of human waste.
(b)
The definitions set forth in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-3 ("High-efficiency plumbing fixtures"), shall be effective as definitions of the words, terms and phrases used in this article. All words, terms and phrases used herein, other than those specifically defined elsewhere in this article, shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-3, and shall have the same scope and effect that the same words, terms and phrases have where used in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-3
Sec. 6-32. - Enforcement.
The city manager shall be responsible for establishing procedures for the enforcement of the provisions of this article.
(Code 1992, § 6-2-2)
Sec. 6-33. - Standards for fixtures.
(a)
No plumbing fixture shall be installed which does not meet the standards listed in this section or the state plumbing code, whichever is stricter. This includes all plumbing fixtures installed in newly constructed buildings or when replacing plumbing fixtures during remodeling or renovation of existing buildings, except as noted in this article.
(b)
The standards are as follows:
(1)
A water closet or toilet that:
a.
Is a dual flush water closet that meets the following standards:
1.
The average flush volume of two reduced flushes and one full flush may not exceed 1.28 gallons;
2.
The toilet meets the performance, testing, and labeling requirements prescribed by the following standards, as applicable:
(i)
American Society of Mechanical Engineers Standard A112.19.2-2008; and
(ii)
American Society of Mechanical Engineers Standard A112.19.14-2006 Six-Liter Water Closets Equipped with a Dual Flushing Device";
3.
Is listed to the WaterSenseTM Tank-Type High Efficiency Toilet Specification; or
b.
Is a single flush water closet, including gravity, pressure assisted, and electro hydraulic tank types that meets the following standards:
1.
The average flush volume may not exceed 1.28 gallons;
2.
The toilet must meet the performance, testing, and labeling requirements prescribed by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers Standard A112.192/CSA B45.1 or A112.19.14; and
3.
The toilet must be listed to the WaterSenseTM Tank-Type High Efficiency Toilet Specification.
(2)
A shower head that allows a flow of no more than an average of 2.5 gallons of water per minute at 60 pounds per square inch of pressure;
(3)
A urinal and associated flush valve that:
a.
Uses no more than 0.5 gallons of water per flush;
b.
Meets the performance, testing, and labeling requirements prescribed by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers Standard A112.19.2/CSA B45.1;
c.
For flushing urinals, meets all WaterSenseTM specifications for flushing urinals; and
d.
Where nonwater urinals are employed, complies with American Society of Mechanical Engineers Standard A112.19.3/CSA B45.4 or American Society of Mechanical Engineers Standard A112.19.19/CSA B45.4. Nonwater urinals shall be cleaned and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions after installation. Where nonwater urinals are installed they shall have a water distribution line roughed-in to the urinal location at a minimum height of 56 inches (1,422 mm) to allow for the installation of an approved backflow prevention device in the event of a retrofit. Such water distribution lines shall be installed with shutoff valves located as close as possible to the distributing main to prevent the creation of dead ends. Where nonwater urinals are installed, a minimum of one water supplied fixture rated at a minimum of one water supply fixture unit shall be installed upstream on the same drain line to facilitate drain line flow and rinsing.
(4)
A lavatory faucet or lavatory replacement aerator that allows a flow of no more than 1.5 gallons of water per minute at a pressure of 60 pounds per square inch in accordance with American Society of Mechanical Engineers Standard A112.18.1/CSA B.125.1 and listed to the WaterSenseTM High-Efficiency Lavatory Faucet Specification.
(5)
A kitchen faucet or kitchen replacement aerator that allows a flow of no more than 2.0 gallons of water per minute.
Sec. 6-34. - Exemptions.
Permission for the exceptions listed in this section must be obtained from the building official. New construction and the repair or renovation of an existing building may be exempt from the standards of this article for the following:
(1)
When the repair or renovation of the existing building does not include the replacement of the plumbing or sewage system servicing toilets, faucets, or shower heads within such existing building;
(2)
When such plumbing or sewage system within such existing building, because of its capacity, design, or installation, would not function properly if the toilets, faucets, or shower heads required by this part were installed;
(3)
When such system is a well or gravity flow from a spring and is owned privately by an individual for use in such individual's personal residence; or
(4)
When units to be installed are:
a.
Specifically designed for use by persons with disabilities;
b.
Specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or installation in a penal institution; or
c.
Toilets for juveniles.
