Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Supplemental powers of municipalities and counties enumerated, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III; municipal corporations generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-3-1 et seq.; powers of municipal corporations generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-1 et seq.; powers relating to administration of municipal government generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2; provisions applicable to counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-1 et seq.; provisions applicable to counties and municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 2-1—2-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LEGISLATIVE BODY

Sec. 2-19. - Salaries of mayor and councilmembers; allowance.
The salaries and allowances of mayor and councilmembers shall be as established by resolution, from time to time, by the mayor and council.
(Code 1992, § 2-1-1)
Sec. 2-20. - Rules of procedure adopted.
Robert's Rules of Order are hereby adopted to govern procedures in meetings of the mayor and council.
(Code 1992, § 2-1-2)
Sec. 2-21. - Meetings.
Regular meetings of the mayor and council shall be held on the first Tuesday of each month, providing, however, such meetings may be rescheduled by the mayor or the majority of the council. The time of the regular meeting shall be as established by the mayor and city council from time to time.
(Code 1992, § 2-1-3)
Secs. 2-22—2-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ELECTIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-46. - Rules governing elections.
All matters relating to elections within the city shall be governed by the city charter and state law.
(Code 1992, § 2-2-1)
Sec. 2-47. - Employment by candidate prohibited.
No officer or full-time employee of the city shall continue in the employment of the city after becoming a candidate for nomination or election to any elective office of the city or to the Board of Commissioners of Jenkins County.
(Code 1992, § 2-2-2; Ord. of 11-5-2019(1), § 2)
Sec. 2-48. - Voting machines.
The use of voting machines for recording and computing the votes at all elections held in the city is hereby authorized and directed.
(Code 1992, § 2-2-3)
Secs. 2-49—2-69. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 2-70. - Sessions of court.
Municipal court shall convene on the third Tuesday of each month at such times as may be set by the judge and may be convened at such other times and dates as the judge deems necessary.
(Code 1992, § 2-3-1)
Sec. 2-71. - Compensation of judge.
The compensation of the judge shall be as set forth in the annual budget. Additional compensation may be set by resolution for that purpose.
(Code 1992, § 2-3-2)
Sec. 2-72. - Clerk of municipal court; powers, duties, ministerial officers.
The city manager shall designate an employee of the city who shall attend all sessions of the municipal court and act as clerk thereof in addition to his other duties. The clerk of the municipal court shall sign and issue all processes, summons and all attachments and executions for fines and other writs issuing out of the court, all of which bear test in the name of the judge. He shall keep all records of the court, receive all fines imposed by the court and account therefor as directed by the mayor and council. The ministerial officers of the court shall be the chief of police and the members of the police department of the city, any of whom may execute the mandates of the court, and to whom in the alternative, all means and final processes thereof shall be directed. The chief of police or a member of the police department shall attend each session of the court for the purpose of executing the necessary orders thereof.
(Code 1992, § 2-3-3)
Sec. 2-73. - Bonds.
(a)
The chief of police may take bond with security or bond without security at his discretion, payable to the city, for appearance of any person accused or suspected of being guilty of a violation of any law or ordinance of the city to stand to and abide his trial before municipal court; and also witnesses to testify in any case pending or about to be commenced in the court. Provided, however, the chief of police shall not accept bonds from a surety as to whom a written order has been signed by the judge removing him from the list of acceptable sureties.
(b)
If any party or witness shall fail or refuse to give bond and security or bond as required of him, such persons so failing or refusing may be confined in the jail or any jail used by the city or kept under guard so as to be present, to abide the trial or to testify, as the case may be.
(Code 1992, § 2-3-4)
Sec. 2-74. - Judgment on violator's bond.
In the event the principal in any bond or recognizance given by a person charged with a violation of an ordinance of the city, or any provision thereof, or who is charged with a violation of the criminal laws of the state, should fail to appear before the municipal court when his case is called to trial, the municipal court may proceed at once to forfeit the bond or recognizance after one week and notice to the surety; and if no sufficient cause is shown the municipal court shall enter judgment against the principal and surety for the full amount of the bond or recognizance and costs and the treasury of the city shall issue execution for the amount of the judgment and the marshal of the city shall collect the same by levy and sale as in tax executions. In addition, the municipal court judge may pass an order prohibiting acceptance of bonds signed by the surety if the execution is not paid within one week after its issue date.
(Code 1992, § 2-3-5)
Sec. 2-75. - Cash bonds.
The judge is hereby designated as the person authorized to specify by written order what offenses for which a cash bond may be accepted and who may set and accept cash bonds. A driver's license may be accepted as cash bond as provided by state law.
(Code 1992, § 2-3-6)
Sec. 2-76. - Judgment on witness' bond.
In the event any person who has been subpoenaed as a witness shall fail to appear before the court in the case in which he has been subpoenaed, the judge may proceed at once to forfeit the bond or recognizance after one week and notice to the surety; if no sufficient cause is shown, the judge shall enter judgment against the bond and surety for the full amount of the bond or recognizance with security; if a person shall fail to appear and testify before the judge, as required, the judge may proceed at once to forfeit the cash bond or collateral, and an entry by the judge upon the docket of the court shall be sufficient judgment to vest the title to the fund in the city.
(Code 1992, § 2-3-7)
Sec. 2-77. - Service of summons.
Any person charged with violating any city ordinance shall receive notice by service of a summons as herein provided. Such summons may be issued by the clerk of the municipal court, the chief of police, any animal control officer, the building inspector, or any police officer of the city. The summons shall be directed to the accused and shall distinctly state the offense charged, and the day, hour, and place of the trial, requiring the accused to appear before the judge of the municipal court to answer to the charge described in the said summons. Service of the summons shall be made by a police officer of the city either by serving the accused personally or by leaving a copy at his most notorious place of abode, except that in the case of a summons issued for violation of laws or ordinances relating to the parking of motor vehicles, such summons may be directed to an unknown person as owner of an automobile designated in the summons and may be served upon such person by leaving a copy in or attached to such automobile.
(Code 1992, § 2-3-8)
Secs. 2-78—2-97. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - RECORDS AND EQUIPMENT

Sec. 2-98. - Procedure for inspection of city records.
Any citizen demanding to see any of the public records of the city shall comply with the following procedure: A written statement outlining the specific information requested, addressed to the mayor and council, shall be submitted by the applicant. The requested records will be made available within a reasonable time in keeping with the other duties and responsibilities of the city's personnel.
(Code 1992, § 2-4-1)
Sec. 2-99. - Designation of city equipment; vehicles.
All city equipment shall be lettered "City of Millen," and a vehicle number, large enough in size for identification of the vehicle, shall be affixed thereto or painted thereon.
(Code 1992, § 2-4-2)
Sec. 2-100. - Use of city equipment, vehicles.
The city's equipment and vehicles shall not be loaned to anyone for any purpose, unless they are used for the benefit of the city, and then they shall be operated only by city employed personnel.
(Code 1992, § 2-4-3)
Secs. 2-101—2-128. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - FISCAL[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Minimum budget, accounting, and auditing requirements for local governments, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-129. - City manager designated city treasurer; signing checks; bond; fi. fas.
(a)
The city manager is also designated as the city treasurer. The city treasurer shall have the right to sign all checks, except as otherwise provided in this article and shall be bonded in the amount of $25,000.00. All checks shall be countersigned by either the mayor, mayor pro tem, or any councilmember.
(b)
All fi. fas. shall be signed by the city manager and may be issued whenever the money is sought to be collected or past due.
(Code 1992, § 2-5-1)
Sec. 2-130. - Expenditure from contingency fund; approval required.
All money spent from the contingency fund shall be approved by the mayor and council.
(Code 1992, § 2-5-2)
Sec. 2-131. - Fiscal year.
(a)
The fiscal year for all departments of the city shall begin on July 1, and expire on June 30 each successive year.
(b)
The city manager shall prepare and submit to the mayor and council a proposed annual budget for the city by no later than May 1, of each year, which budget, an amended form thereof, or a substitute budget, shall be considered and adopted by the mayor and council prior to the beginning of the new fiscal year.
(Code 1992, § 2-5-3)
State Law reference— Establishment of fiscal year required, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3.
Sec. 2-132. - Annual audit.
An annual audit of all city accounts will be conducted each year.
(Code 1992, § 2-5-4)
Secs. 2-133—2-162. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - PURCHASING

Sec. 2-163. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this article the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
City manager means the city manager of the City of Millen, Georgia.
City purchasing agent or agent means the purchasing agent of the city.
Contractual services.
(1)
The term "contractual services" means and includes all telephone, gas, water, electric light and power service; towel and cleaning service; insurance; leases for all grounds, buildings, office or other space required by the using agencies; and the rental, repair or maintenance of equipment, machinery and other city-owned personal property.
(2)
The term "contractual services" shall not include professional and other contractual services, which are in their nature unique and not subject to competition.
Supplies means and includes all supplies, materials and equipment.
Using agency means any department, agency, commission, bureau or other unit in the city government using supplies or procuring contractual services as provided for in this article.
(Code 1992, § 2-6-1)
Sec. 2-164. - City purchasing agent.
There is hereby created the position of city purchasing agent for the city which position shall be held by the city manager. The agent shall have the powers and duties prescribed by this article.
(Code 1992, § 2-6-2)
Sec. 2-165. - Scope of purchasing authority.
The agent shall have the power and it shall be his duty:
(1)
Purchase or contract. To purchase or contract for all supplies and contractual services needed by any using agency which derives its support wholly or in part from the city, in accordance with purchasing procedures as prescribed by this article and such rules and regulations as the agent shall adopt for the internal management and operation of his responsibilities as purchasing agent and such other rules and regulations as shall be prescribed by the city council, provided, however, that purchases above $2,500.00 shall be specifically approved by the mayor and council.
(2)
Unauthorized purchases. Except as herein provided, it shall be unlawful for any city officer, or officers, or agents to order the purchase of any supplies or make any contract within the purview of this article other than through the city purchasing agent, and any purchase ordered or contract made contrary to the provisions hereof shall not be approved by the city officials, and the city shall not be bound thereby.
(3)
Other powers and duties. In addition to the purchasing authority conferred in this section, and in addition to any other powers and duties conferred by this article, the agent shall:
a.
Minimum expenditure. Act to procure for the city the highest quality in supplies and contractual services at the least expense to the city.
b.
Encourage competition. Discourage uniform bidding and endeavor to obtain as full and open competition as possible on all purchases and sales.
c.
Rules and regulations. Establish, and amend when necessary, all rules and regulations authorized by this article and any others necessary to its operation.
d.
Purchasing analysis. Keep informed of current developments in the field of purchasing, prices, market conditions and new products, and secure for the city the benefits or research done in the field of purchasing by other governmental jurisdictions, national technical societies, trade associations having national recognition, and by private businesses and organizations.
e.
Forms. Prescribe and maintain such forms as he shall find reasonably necessary to the operation of this article.
f.
Bulk purchases. Exploit the possibilities of buying in bulk so as to take full advantage of discounts.
g.
Federal tax exemptions. Act so as to procure for the city all federal tax exemptions to which it is entitled.
h.
Disqualification of bidders. Have the authority to declare vendors who default on their quotations irresponsible bidders and to disqualify them from receiving any business from the municipality for a stated period of time.
(Code 1992, § 2-6-3)
Sec. 2-166. - Requisitions and estimates.
All using agencies, either by or with the authorization of the head of the department under which the using agency operates, shall file with the agent detailed requisitions or estimates of their requirements in supplies and contractual services in such manner, at such times, and for such future periods as the agent shall prescribe.
(1)
Unforeseen requirements. A using agency shall not be prevented from filing, in the same manner, with the agent at any time, a requisition or estimate for any supplies and contractual services, the need for which was not foreseen when the detailed estimates were filed.
(2)
Revisory power in agent. The agent shall examine each requisition or estimate and shall have the authority to revise it as to quantity, quality, or estimated cost.
(Code 1992, § 2-6-4)
Sec. 2-167. - Encumbrance of funds.
Except in cases of emergency, the agent shall not issue any order for delivery on a contract or open market purchase until he shall have determined that there is to the credit of the using agency concerned a sufficient unencumbered appropriation balance in excess of all unpaid obligations, to defray the amount of such order.
(Code 1992, § 2-6-5)
Sec. 2-168. - Prohibition of interest.
(a)
Employee interest. Any purchase order or contract within the purview of this article in which the agent, or any officer or employee of the city is financially interested, directly or indirectly, shall be void, except that before the execution of a purchase order or contract the council shall have the authority to waive compliance with this section when it finds such action to be in the best interests of the city.
(b)
Gifts and rebates. The agent and every officer and employee of the city are expressly prohibited from accepting, directly or indirectly, from any person, company, firm or corporation to which any purchase order or contract is, or might be awarded, any rebate, gift, money, or anything of value whatsoever, except where given for the use and benefit of the city.
(Code 1992, § 2-6-6)
Sec. 2-169. - Competitive bidding required.
All purchases of, and contracts for supplies and contractual services, and all sales of personal property which has become obsolete and unusable shall, except as specifically provided herein, be based wherever possible on competitive bids.
(Code 1992, § 2-6-7)
Sec. 2-170. - Formal contract procedure.
All supplies and contractual services, except as otherwise provided herein, when the estimated cost thereof shall exceed $10,000.00 shall be purchased by formal, written contract from the lowest responsible bidder, after approval by the council and due notice inviting proposals. All sales of personal property which has become obsolete and unusable, when the estimated value shall exceed $10,000.00, shall be sold by formal written contract to the highest responsible bidder, after approval by the council and due notice inviting proposals.
(1)
Notice inviting bids.
a.
Newspaper. Notice inviting bids shall be published once in The Millen News, and such other publications as the agent deems appropriate, and at least five days preceding the last day set for the receipt of proposals. The newspaper notice required herein shall include a general description of the articles to be purchased or sold, shall state where bid blanks and specifications may be secured, and the time and place for opening bids.
b.
Bidders' list. The agent shall also solicit sealed bids from all responsible prospective suppliers who have requested their names to be added to a bidders' list which the agent shall maintain, by sending them a copy of such newspaper notice or such other notice as will acquaint them with the proposed purchase or sale. In any case, invitations sent to the vendors on the bidders' list shall be limited to commodities that are similar in character and ordinarily handled by the trade group to which the invitations are sent.
c.
Bulletin board. The agent shall also advertise all pending purchases or sales by a notice posted on the public bulletin board in the city hall.
(2)
Bid Deposits. When deemed necessary by the agent, bid deposits shall be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders shall be entitled to return of surety where the agent has required such. A successful bidder shall forfeit any surety required by the agent upon failure on his part to enter a contract within ten days after the award.
(3)
Bid opening procedure.
a.
Sealed. Bids shall be submitted sealed to the agent and shall be identified as bids on the envelope.
b.
Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated in the public notices.
c.
Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be posted for public inspection.
(4)
Rejection of bids. The agent shall have the authority to reject all bids or parts of all bids for any one or more supplies or contractual services included in the proposed contract, when the public interest will be served thereby.
(5)
Bidders in default to city. The agent shall not accept the bid of a contractor who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses or other monies due the city.
(6)
Award of contract.
a.
Authority in agent. The agent shall have the authority to award contracts within the purview of this article.
b.
Lowest responsible bidder. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder. In determining the lowest responsible bidder, in addition to price, the agent shall consider:
1.
The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the contract or provide the service required;
2.
Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
3.
The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and efficiency of the bidder;
4.
The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
5.
The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and ordinances relating to the contract or service;
6.
The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
7.
The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or contractual services to the particular use required;
8.
The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service for the use of the subject of the contract;
9.
The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
c.
Award to other than lowest bidder. When the award is not given to the lowest bidder, a full and complete statement of the reasons for placing the order elsewhere shall be prepared by the agent and filed with the other papers relating to the transaction.
d.
Tie bids. If all bids received are for the same total amount or unit price, quality and service being equal, the contract shall be awarded to a local bidder. Otherwise, the agent shall award the contract to one of the tie bidders by drawing lots in public.
e.
Performance bonds. The agent shall have the authority to require a performance bond, before entering a contract; in such amount as he shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the city.
(7)
Prohibition against subdivision. No contract or purchase shall be subdivided to avoid the requirements of this section.
(Code 1992, § 2-6-8)
Sec. 2-171. - Open market procedure.
All purchases of supplies and contractual services, and all sales of personal property which has become obsolete and unusable, of less than the estimated value of $10,000.00, shall be made in the open market, without newspaper advertisement, and without observing the procedure prescribed by section 2-170 for the award of formal contracts.
(1)
Minimum number of bids. All open market purchases shall, wherever possible, be based on at least three competitive bids, and shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder in accordance with the standards set forth in section 2-170(6)b.
(2)
Notice inviting bids. The agent shall solicit bids by:
a.
Direct mail request to prospective vendors;
b.
By telephone; and
c.
By public notice posted on the bulletin board of the city hall.
(3)
Recording. The agent shall keep a record of all open market orders and the bids submitted in competition thereon, and such records shall be open to public inspection.
(Code 1992, § 2-6-9)
Sec. 2-172. - Emergency purchases.
In case of an apparent emergency which requires immediate purchase of supplies or contractual services, the council shall be empowered to authorize the agent to secure by open market procedure as herein set forth, at the lowest obtainable price, any supplies or contractual services regardless of the amount of the expenditure. A full report of the circumstances of an emergency purchase shall be filed by the agent with the council and shall be entered in the minutes of the council and shall be open to public inspection.
(Code 1992, § 2-6-11)
Sec. 2-173. - Competitive purchasing.
The purchasing agent shall have the authority to join with other units of government in cooperative purchasing plans as that the best interests of the city shall be served thereby.
(Code 1992, § 2-6-12)
Sec. 2-174. - Leasing through GMA.
(a)
The city finds that the leasing of certain equipment, machinery or other personal property pursuant to a master lease (the "master lease") with the Georgia Municipal Association is essential to operation of the governmental functions of the city. It is the intent of this article to authorize and direct the execution of such documents as may be necessary to effectuate these purposes.
(b)
The city manager is hereby authorized and directed in the name of, and on behalf of, the city to execute and deliver the master lease in substantially the form presented to the meeting at which it was originally adopted, or in such other forms as may be subsequently presented and adopted by resolution, with such changes and additions as shall be approved by the officer who executes the same, and such other documents as shall be deemed by such officer to be necessary or desirable to effect the purposes of this article; and such execution shall constitute conclusive evidence that the executed document has been authorized and approved by this article. The aforesaid officer is further authorized to do all things necessary or appropriate to effectuate the purposes hereof.
(c)
The leases contemplated by the master lease are hereby designated "qualified tax-exempt obligations" within the meaning of section 265(b)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
(Code 1992, § 2-6-13)
Sec. 2-175. - Penalties.
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor offense punishable as provided in section 1-6. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Code 1992, § 2-6-14)
Secs. 2-176—2-205. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. - CODE OF ETHICS

Sec. 2-206. - General purpose.
The purpose of this code of ethics is to:
(1)
Encourage high ethical standards in official conduct by city officials;
(2)
Establish guidelines for ethical standards of conduct for all such officials by setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible with the interest of the city;
(3)
Require disclosure by such officials of private financial or other interest in matters affecting the city; and
(4)
Serve as a basis for disciplining those who refuse to abide by its terms.
(Ord. of 4-5-2011, § 1(2-9-1))
Sec. 2-207. - Scope.
The provisions of this code of ethics shall be applicable to all elected or appointed city officials. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, state law and the charter of the city shall be controlling in the event of an actual conflict with the provisions of this code of ethics. This article shall be interpreted to supplement, and not replace, said provisions of state law and the charter.
(Ord. of 4-5-2011, § 1(2-9-2))
Sec. 2-208. - Definitions.
When used in this article, the following words, terms and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
City official or official, unless otherwise expressly defined does not include city employees, but does mean the mayor, members of the city council, municipal court judges (including substitute judges), city manager, city clerk, city attorney, and all other persons holding positions designated by the city charter, as amended. The term "city official" also includes all individuals, including city employees, appointed by the mayor and/or city council as appropriate to city authorities, commissions, committees, boards, task forces, or other bodies which can or may vote, or take formal action or make official recommendations to the mayor and/or city council.
Decision means any ordinance, resolution, contract, franchise, formal action or other matter voted on by the city council or other city board or commission, as well as the discussions or deliberations of the council, board, or commission which can or may lead to a vote or formal action by that body.
Employee means any person who is a full-time or part-time employee of the city.
Immediate family means the spouse, mother, father, grandparent, brother, sister, son or daughter of any city official related by blood, adoption or marriage. The relationship by marriage shall include in-laws.
Incidental interest means an interest in a person, entity or property which is not a substantial interest as defined herein and which has insignificant value.
Remote interest means an interest of a person or entity, including a city official, which would be affected in the same way as the general public. For example, the interest of an official in the property tax rate, general city fees, city utility charges or a comprehensive zoning ordinance or similar matters is deemed remote to the extent that the official would be affected in common with the general public.
Substantial interest means an interest, either directly or through a member of the immediate family, in another person or entity, where:
(1)
The interest is ownership of five percent or more of the voting stock, shares or equity of the entity or ownership of $5,000.00 or more of the equity or market value of the entity;
(2)
The funds received by the person from the other person or entity during the previous 12 months either equal or exceed:
a.
$5,000.00 in salary, bonuses, commissions or professional fees, or $5,000.00 in payment for goods, products or services; or
b.
Ten percent of the recipient's gross income during that period, whichever is less;
(3)
The person serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of directors or other governing board of a for-profit entity other than a corporate entity owned or created by the city council; or
(4)
The person is a creditor, debtor, or guarantor of the other person or entity in an amount of $5,000.00 or more.
(Ord. of 4-5-2011, § 1(2-9-3))
Sec. 2-209. - Prohibitions.
(a)
No city official shall use such position to secure special privileges or exemptions for himself or others, or to secure confidential information for any purpose other than official duties on behalf of the city.
(b)
No city official, in any matter before the council or other city body, relating to a person or entity in which the official has a substantial interest, shall fail to disclose for the record such interest prior to any discussion or vote or fail to recuse himself from such discussion or vote as applicable.
(c)
No city official shall act as an agent or attorney for another in any matter before the city council or other city body.
(d)
No city official shall directly or indirectly receive, or agree to receive, any compensation, gift, reward, or gratuity in any matter or proceeding connected with, or related to, the duties of his office except as may be provided by law.
(e)
No city official shall enter into any contract with, or have any interest in, either directly or indirectly, the city except as authorized by state law.
(1)
This prohibition shall not be applicable to the professional activities of the city attorney in his work as an independent contractor and legal advisor on behalf of the city.
(2)
This prohibition shall not be applicable to an otherwise valid employment contract between the city and a city official who is not elected (such as, by way of example, a city manager or chief of police).
(3)
Any official who has a proprietary interest in an agency doing business with the city shall make that interest known in writing to the city council and the city clerk.
(f)
All public funds shall be used for the general welfare of the people and not for personal economic gain.
(g)
Public property shall be disposed of in accordance with state law.
(h)
No city official shall solicit or accept other employment to be performed, or compensation to be received, while still a city official if the employment or compensation could reasonably be expected to impair such official's judgment or performance of city duties.
(i)
If a city official accepts or is soliciting a promise of future employment from any person or entity who has a substantial interest in a person, entity or property which would be affected by any decision upon which the official might reasonably be expected to act, investigate, advise, or make a recommendation, the official shall disclose the fact to the city council and shall recuse himself and take no further action on matters regarding the potential future employer.
(j)
No city official shall use city facilities, personnel, equipment or supplies for private purposes, except to the extent such are lawfully available to the public.
(k)
No city official shall grant or make available to any person any consideration, treatment, advantage or favor beyond that which it is the general practice to grant or make available to the public at large.
(l)
A city official shall not directly, or indirectly, make use of, or permit others to make use of, official information not made available to the general public for the purpose of furthering a private interest.
(m)
A city official shall not use his position in any way to coerce, or give the appearance of coercing, another person to provide any financial benefit to such official or persons within the official's immediate family, or those with whom the official has business or financial ties amounting to a substantial interest.
(n)
A city official shall not order any goods and services for the city without prior official authorization for such an expenditure. No city official shall attempt to obligate the city nor give the impression of obligating the city without proper prior authorization.
(o)
No city official shall draw travel funds or per diem from the city for attendance at meetings, seminars, training or other educational events and fail to attend such events without promptly reimbursing the city therefor.
(p)
No city official shall attempt to unduly influence the outcome of a case before the municipal court of the city nor shall any city official engage in ex parte communication with a municipal court judge of the city on any matter pending before the municipal court of the city.
(Ord. of 4-5-2011, § 1(2-9-4))
Sec. 2-210. - Conflict of interest.
(a)
A city official may not participate in a vote or decision on a matter affecting an immediate family member or any person, entity, or property in which the official has a substantial interest.
(b)
A city official who serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of directors of a nonprofit entity must disclose their interest in said entity to the mayor and council prior to participating in a vote or decision regarding funding of the entity by or through the city.
(c)
Where the interest of a city official in the subject matter of a vote or decision is remote or incidental, the city official may participate in the vote or decision and need not disclose the interest.
(Ord. of 4-5-2011, § 1(2-9-5))
Sec. 2-211. - Board of ethics.
(a)
The board of ethics shall consist of three residents of the city, one appointed by the mayor, one appointed by the council, and the third appointed by the two named board members and approved by a majority of the city council. The third member of the board of ethics shall be a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia.
(b)
All members of the board of ethics shall be residents of the city for at least one year immediately preceding the date of taking office and shall remain a resident while serving on the board.
(c)
All members of the board of ethics shall serve a five-year term.
(d)
No person shall serve as a member of the board of ethics if the person has, or has had within the preceding one-year period, any interest in any contract or contracting opportunity with the city or has been employed by the city.
(e)
Members of the board of ethics with any permit or rezoning application pending before the city, or any pending or potential litigation against the city, or any city official charged in the complaint shall be disqualified from serving on the board of ethics for that complaint. An alternate member of the board of ethics shall be selected in the same manner as the disqualified individual.
(f)
The members of the board of ethics shall serve without compensation. The city council shall provide meeting space for the board of ethics and, subject to budgetary procedures and requirements of the city, such supplies and equipment as may be reasonably necessary for the board to perform its duties and responsibilities.
(g)
No person shall serve on the board of ethics who has been convicted of a felony involving moral turpitude in this state or any other state, unless such person's civil rights have been restored and at least ten years have elapsed from the date of the completion of the sentence without a subsequent conviction of another felony involving moral turpitude.
(h)
No person shall serve on the board of ethics who is less than 21 years of age, who holds a public elective office, who is physically or mentally unable to discharge the duties of a member of the board of ethics, or who is not qualified to be a registered voter in the city.
(i)
Upon appointment, members of the board of ethics shall sign an affidavit attesting to their qualification to serve as a member of the board of ethics.
(j)
Members of the board of ethics may be removed by majority vote of the city governing authority.
(Ord. of 4-5-2011, § 1(2-9-6))
Sec. 2-212. - Receipt of complaints.
(a)
All complaints against city officials shall be filed with the city manager (or, in the event the complaint is against the city manager, then to the mayor) who shall give the complaint to the board of ethics, who may require that oral complaints, and complaints illegibly or informally drawn, be reduced to a memorandum of complaint in such form as may be prescribed by the city council or the board of ethics. Upon receipt of a complaint in proper form, the chair of the board of ethics shall forward a copy of the complaint to the city official or officials charged in the complaint within no more than seven calendar days.
(b)
All complaints shall be submitted and signed under oath, shall be legibly drawn and shall clearly address matters within the scope of this article.
(c)
Upon receipt of a complaint in proper form, the board shall review it to determine whether the complaint is unjustified, frivolous, patently unfounded or fails to state facts sufficient to invoke the disciplinary jurisdiction of the city council. The board of ethics is empowered to dismiss in writing complaints that it determines are unjustified, frivolous, patently unfounded or fail to state facts sufficient to invoke the disciplinary jurisdiction of the city council; provided, however, that a rejection of such complaint by the board of ethics shall not deprive the complaining party of any action such party might otherwise have at law or in equity against the city official. For complaints that are not dismissed, the board of ethics is empowered to collect evidence and information concerning any complaint and add the findings and results of its investigations to the file containing such complaint.
(d)
Upon completion of its investigation of a complaint, the board of ethics is empowered to dismiss in writing those complaints which it determines are unjustified, frivolous, patently unfounded or which fail to state facts sufficient to invoke the disciplinary jurisdiction of the city council; provided, however, that a rejection of such complaint by the board of ethics shall not deprive the complaining party of any action such party might otherwise have at law or in equity against the city official.
(e)
The board of ethics is empowered to conduct investigations, to take evidence, and to hold hearings to address the subject matter of a complaint.
(f)
The board of ethics is empowered to adopt forms for formal complaints, notices, and any other necessary or desirable documents within its jurisdiction where the city council has not prescribed such forms.
(g)
Findings of the board of ethics shall be submitted to the city council for action.
(h)
To discourage the filing of ethics complaints solely for political purposes, complaints will not be accepted against a person seeking election as a city official, whether currently serving as a city official or not, from the date qualifying opens for the elected office at issue through the date the election results for that office are certified. The time for filing complaints will not run during this period. Properly filed complaints will be accepted and processed after the election results have been certified.
(Ord. of 4-5-2011, § 1(2-9-7))
Sec. 2-213. - Service of complaint.
The city manager, mayor, or board of ethics as appointed herein set forth shall cause the complaint to be served on the city official charged as soon as practicable but in no event later than seven calendar days after receipt of a proper, verified complaint. Service may be by personal service, by certified mail, return receipt requested or by statutory overnight delivery. A hearing shall be held within 60 calendar days after filing of the complaint. The board of ethics shall conduct hearings in accordance with the procedures and regulations it establishes but, in all circumstances, at least one hearing shall include the taking of testimony and the cross examination of available witnesses. The decision of the board of ethics shall be rendered to mayor and council within seven calendar days after completion of the final hearing. At any hearing held by the board of ethics, the city official who is the subject of inquiry shall have the right to written notice of the hearing and the allegations at least seven calendar days before the first hearing, to be represented by counsel, to hear and examine the evidence and witnesses and, to oppose or try to mitigate the allegations. The city official subject to the inquiry shall also have the right, but not the obligation, of submitting evidence and calling witnesses. Failure to comply with any of the deadlines in this section shall not invalidate any otherwise valid complaint or in any way affect the power or jurisdiction of the board of ethics or the city council to act upon any complaint.
(Ord. of 4-5-2011, § 1(2-9-8))
Sec. 2-214. - Appeals.
(a)
Any city official or complainant adversely affected by the findings or recommendations of the board of ethics may obtain judicial review of such decision as provided in this section.
(b)
An action for judicial review may be commenced by filing an application for a writ of certiorari in the superior court of the county within 30 days after the decision of the board of ethics. The filing of such application shall act as supersedes.
(Ord. of 4-5-2011, § 1(2-9-10))
Sec. 2-215. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this article is subject to:
(1)
Public reprimand or censure by the city council; or
(2)
Request for resignation by the city council.
(Ord. of 4-5-2011, § 1(2-9-11))
