ARTICLE 6. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Section 6-101. - Creation; jurisdiction.
There shall be a court of the city, to be known as "The Municipal Court of Millen, Georgia," which shall be vested with all the jurisdiction and powers throughout the city generally granted to mayor's, recorder's or police courts and particularly as to the abatement of nuisances, prosecution of traffic violations and violation of other ordinances of the city.
Section 6-102. - Chief judge; associate judges; appointment; compensation; oath.
(a)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a judge appointed for a term of one (1) year or at the pleasure of mayor and council.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge of the municipal court unless that person shall have attained the age of 21 years and shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia. Such judge shall be appointed or removed by a majority vote of all council members.
(c)
Compensation of the judge shall be fixed by contract, resolution, or ordinance by the mayor and council.
(d)
Before entering on the duties of the office, the judge shall take an oath given by the mayor, that he or she will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of office to the best of his or her ability without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the council.
Section 6-103. - Convening; rules of procedure; powers; punishments.
(a)
The municipal court shall convene at times and dates as may be provided by resolution, but the court shall convene at least once a month.
(b)
The municipal court shall follow such rules and procedures as the judge may establish unless otherwise provided by ordinance, this charter, or general state law, which rules and regulations shall be reduced to writing and be made available upon request.
(c)
The mayor and council, by ordinance, may provide for the powers of the municipal court over bail and appearance bonds.
(d)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments and sentences; and to administer oaths as are necessary.
(e)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summons, subpoena and warrants which may be served and executed by any officer as authorized by ordinance or by general state law. Further, the judge of the municipal court may issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged with offenses against any city ordinance and shall have the power and authority as is provided by the state for magistrates to issue warrants for offenses against state laws committed within the city.
(f)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and the mayor and council, by ordinance, shall establish and be entitled to reimbursement for the cost of the meals, transportation and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violations of state law. These costs shall be collected by the court in which the case is tried or triable in the same manner as other costs are collected by such court and shall be paid over to the city.
(g)
Unless a lesser penalty is provided by ordinance, the judge of the municipal court shall have the power and authority to impose upon the violator of any law or ordinance, for each violation thereof, the following punishments, or any punishment provided for such offense by state statute, whichever is greater:
(1)
A fine not to exceed $1000.00;
(2)
Imprisonment for a period of not more than six months; or
(3)
Any one (1) or all of these punishments when the facts of the case justify such punishments;
(4)
Provided, however, that each contempt of municipal court shall be punishable either by imposition of a fine not exceeding $500.00 or by imprisonment for a period of time not exceeding thirty (30) days or both.
(Ord. of 4-4-2017(1), §§ 2, 3)
Section 6-104. - Appeals.
The right of appeal from decisions and judgments of municipal court to the superior court of Jenkins County, and the establishment of any bond required to secure the costs of appeal, shall lie in the same manner and under the same procedure as generally prescribed for appeals and appeal bonds by state law for appeals from magistrate's courts to superior courts.
