ARTICLE 1. - INCORPORATION, POWERS, BOUNDARIES

Section 1-101. - Incorporation; name.
The City of Millen, Georgia, and the inhabitants thereof shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the name of the City of Millen (hereinafter at times referred to as the "city"). The city shall be the legal continuation and successor to the city as heretofore incorporated; shall continue to be vested with all of the property and rights of property which now belong to the city; and shall have perpetual succession.
Section 1-102. - General powers.
The city shall have all the powers, duties, rights, privileges, and immunities vested in the city now or hereafter granted to municipal corporations by the Constitution, by the General Laws of the State of Georgia, and by this charter. This city shall exercise and enjoy all powers of self-government not specifically prohibited by the Constitution, the General Laws of the State of Georgia, or by this charter, including all powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, and general powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted as fully and completely as if these powers were fully enumerated herein. In addition, the city may sue and be sued; may contract and be contracted with; may acquire and hold any property, real and personal as may be devised, bequeathed, sold or in any manner conveyed or dedicated to or otherwise acquired by it, and from time to time may hold or invest, sell or dispose of any of its property, including but not limited to the abandonment of any easement when deemed desirable by the city; and may have a common seal and alter it at will.
Section 1-103. - Special powers.
The city may acquire, construct and maintain, by condemnation or otherwise, inside or outside the city limits, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment or waterworks systems, electrical or gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, flood control, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal, and medical institutions, areas and facilities, and any other public improvements. The city, by ordinance, may establish and enforce rules and regulations necessary to preserve order, peace, and dignity on any property or facilities so acquired.
Section 1-104. - Construction of powers.
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of the city.
Section 1-105. - Boundaries; official map.
(a)
The corporate limits and boundaries of this city shall be those existing immediately prior to the effective date of this section with any alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by state law. The boundaries of this city at all times shall be shown on a map, a written description or any combination thereof, incorporated herein, to be retained permanently in the office of the city administrator and to be designated, as the case may be; "Official Map (or Description) of the Corporate Limits of the City of Millen, Georgia." Photographic, typed, or other copies of the map or description certified by the city administrator shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
(b)
The city shall provide for the redrawing of the official map by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the earlier map or maps which it is designated to replace.
(c)
In addition to the corporate limits of the city as described in subsection (a) of this section, the corporate limits of the City of Millen shall also include the right-of-way of the following highways:
(1)
State Route 23 from the north city limits as they existed on February 1, 1993, (ML 13.71) .243 miles north of Grimm Avenue (City Street # 585); and
(2)
State Route 121 (U.S. 25) from the north city limits as they existed on February 1, 1993, (ML 15.80) 0.01 miles north of Turner Road (County Road # 16).
(1993 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 132), p. 4359)
Section 1-106. - Annexation of territory; elections.
Additional territory may be annexed into the corporate limits of the city by any means provided by the Laws of the State of Georgia.
