ARTICLE 2. - GOVERNING BODY

Section 2.10. - Creation; composition; number; election.
The legislative authority of the government of the City of Rossville, except as otherwise specifically provided in this charter, shall be vested in a city council to be composed of a mayor and four (4) councilmen. The mayor and councilmen shall be elected in the manner provided by article 5 of this charter.
Section 2.11. - Terms and qualifications of office.
Except as otherwise provided in section 5.10, the members of the council shall serve for terms of four (4) years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be eligible to serve as mayor or councilman unless he shall have been a resident of the city for a period of one (1) year immediately prior to the date of the election of mayor or members of the council and shall continue to reside therein during his period of service, and shall be registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections of the City of Rossville, Georgia, and unless he shall meet the qualification standards required for members of the Georgia House of Representatives, as are now or may in the future be prescribed by the Georgia Constitution.
(Ga. Laws 1977, Act No. 136, § 1)
Section 2.12. - Vacancy; forfeiture of office; filling of vacancies.
(a)
Vacancies. The office of mayor or councilman shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, forfeiture of office or removal from office in any manner authorized by this charter or the laws of the State of Georgia.
(b)
Forfeiture of office. The mayor or any councilman shall forfeit his office if he:
(1)
Lacks at any time during his term of office any qualifications of the office as prescribed by this charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(2)
Wilfully and knowingly violates any express prohibition of this charter; or
(3)
Is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude.
(c)
Filling of vacancies. A vacancy in the office of mayor or councilman shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided for in article 5.
Section 2.13. - Compensation and expenses.
The councilmen shall receive as compensation for their services an amount to be determined by resolution of the mayor and council. The mayor and councilmen shall be entitled to receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
Section 2.14. - Prohibitions.
(a)
Holding other office. Except as authorized by law, no member of the council shall hold any other elective city office or city employment during the term for which he was elected.
(b)
Voting when personally interested. Neither the mayor nor any other member of the council shall vote upon any question in which he is personally interested.
Section 2.15. - Inquiries and investigations.
The council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department, office, or agency thereof and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony and require the production of evidence. Any person who should fail or refuse to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the council shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
Section 2.16. - General powers and authority of the council.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided by law or by this charter, the council shall be vested with all the powers of government of the City of Rossville, Georgia, as provided by article 1.
(b)
In addition to all other powers conferred upon it by law, the council shall have the authority to adopt and provide for the execution of such ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this charter, the constitution, and the laws of the State of Georgia, which it shall deem necessary, expedient, or helpful for the peace, good order, protection of life and property, health, welfare, sanitation, comfort, convenience, prosperity, or well-being of the inhabitants of the City of Rossville, and may enforce such ordinance by imposing penalties for violation thereof.
(c)
The council may by ordinance create, change, alter, abolish, or consolidate offices, agencies and departments, of the city and may assign additional functions to any of the offices, agencies and departments expressly provided for by this charter.
Section 2.17. - Chief executive officer.
The mayor shall be the chief executive of the City of Rossville, Georgia. He shall possess, have and exercise all of the executive and administrative powers granted to the city under the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, and all the executive and administrative powers contained in this charter.
Section 2.18. - [Same—] Term; qualification; compensation.
The mayor shall be elected for a term of four (4) years and until his successor is elected and qualified. He shall be a qualified elector of the City of Rossville, shall meet the qualifications required of members of the state house of representatives by the Georgia Constitution, and shall have been a resident of the City of Rossville, Georgia, for a period of one (1) year immediately preceding his election. He shall continue to reside in the City of Rossville during the period of his service. The compensation of the mayor shall be $16,000.00 per year beginning with the next duly elected administration taking office in 1979, and said compensation shall be increased by the sum of $1,000.00 per year for the years 1980, 1981, and 1982, such that the total salary for the mayor shall be $19,000.00 per year by the year 1982; except that in the event he should become a part-time mayor under a mayor-council-city-manager government, the city council shall establish the mayor's compensation.
(Ord. No. 160, 5-8-78)
Section 2.19. - [Same—] Powers and duties.
As the chief executive of the City of Rossville, Georgia, the mayor shall:
(a)
See that all laws and ordinances of the city are faithfully executed;
(b)
Recommend appointments and removals of all officers, department heads and employees of the city, to the council, but that it is the duty of the council to do the actual appointing and removing of such persons; but the mayor shall have the power to hire temporarily such persons in an emergency and shall have the right to suspend said persons until the next meeting of the council;
(c)
Exercise supervision over all executive and administrative work of the city and provide for the coordination of administrative activities;
(d)
Prepare and submit to the council a recommended annual operating budget and recommended capital budget;
(e)
Submit to the council at least once a year a statement covering the financial conditions of the city from time to time, [and] such other information as the council may request;
(f)
Recommend to the council such measures relative to the affairs of the city, improvement of the government, and promotion of the welfare of its inhabitants as he may deem expedient;
(g)
Call special meetings of the council as otherwise provided for in this charter;
(h)
Examine and audit all accounts of the city before payment;
(i)
Require any department or agency of the city to submit written reports with connection to the affairs thereof whenever he deems it expedient;
(j)
Perform other duties as may be required by law, this charter or ordinance.
Section 2.20. - [Same—] Limitation on terms of service.
The mayor may be re-elected to succeed himself so long as he meets the qualifications of this charter and the laws of the State of Georgia, and so long as the voters of the City of Rossville desire him.
Section 2.21. - Mayor pro tem.
During the absence or disability of the mayor for any cause, the mayor pro tem, or in his absence or disability for any reason, any one of the councilmen chosen by the council, shall be clothed with all rights and privileges of the mayor and shall perform the duties of the office of the mayor so long as such absence or disability shall continue.
Sections 2.22—2.29. - Reserved.
Section 2.30. - Organization meeting.
The council shall meet for organization on the second Monday in January. The meeting shall be called to order by the city clerk and the oath of office shall be administered to the newly elected members, as follows: "I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will well and truly perform the duties of (Mayor or Councilman) (as the case may be) of the City and that I will support and defend the Charter thereof as well as the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America."
Following the induction of members the council by majority vote of all the members thereof shall elect one of their number to be mayor pro tem, who shall serve for a term of four (4) years and until his successor is elected and qualified.
Section 2.31. - Regular and special meetings.
(a)
The council shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as prescribed by ordinance. The council may recess any regular meeting and continue such meetings on any weekday or hour it may fix, and may transact any business at such continued meeting as may be transacted at any regular meeting.
(b)
Special meetings of the council may be held on call of the mayor or three (3) members of the council. Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all other members personally, or by telephone personally, or shall be left at their residence at least 24 (twenty-four) hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmen are present when the special meeting is called. Notice of any special meeting may be waived in writing before or after such a meeting, and attendance at the meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice of any special meeting. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted, at the special meeting, except by unanimous consent of all members present. With such consent, any business which may be transacted in a regular meeting may be conducted at the special meeting.
(c)
All meetings of the council shall be public, except when private meeting or hearing or executive session is required or allowed by law.
Editor's note— The exception at the end of the last sentence in paragraph (c) was added by the city to reflect current procedures.
Section 2.32. - Rules of procedure.
The council shall adopt its rules of procedure and order of business consistent with the provisions of this charter and shall provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
Section 2.33. - Quorum; voting.
Three (3) councilmen shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances, shall be taken by voice vote, and the ayes and nays shall be recorded in the journal, but any member of the council shall have the right to request a roll call vote. The affirmative vote of three (3) councilmen shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion except as otherwise provided in this charter.
Section 2.34. - Action requiring an ordinance.
(a)
Except as herein provided, every official action of the council which it to become law, shall be by ordinance. Each proposed ordinance or resolution shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption, but the same may be amended between the time of the first reading and the final reading so long as the amendment does not change the subject matter. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be "The Council of the City of Rossville hereby ordains…."
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by any member of the council and read at a regular or special meeting of the council. Ordinances shall be considered and adopted or rejected by the council in accordance with the rules which it shall establish; provided, however, ordinances, except emergency ordinances, shall not be adopted until the next regular meeting of the council following the meeting of their initial introduction. Upon introduction of any ordinance, the clerk shall distribute a copy to the mayor, and to each councilman, and shall file a reasonable number of copies in the office of the clerk and at such other public place as the council may designate.
Section 2.35. - Emergency ordinances.
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property, or public peace, the council may adopt one or more emergency ordinances, but such ordinances may not levy taxes, grant, renew or extend a franchise, regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its service, or authorize the borrowing of money except as provided by law. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form and manner prescribed for ordinances generally except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing it in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted with or without amendment or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of at least three (3) councilmen shall be required for adoption. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand repealed sixty (60) days following the date upon which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
Section 2.36. - Codes of technical regulations.
(a)
The council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally except that:
(1)
the requirements of section 2.37, for distribution and filing of copies of the ordinance shall be construed to include copies of any code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance; and
(2)
a copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the clerk pursuant to section 2.37(a).
(b)
Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations shall be made available by the clerk for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
Section 2.37. - Signing, authenticating, recording; codification; printing.
(a)
The clerk shall authenticate by his signature and record in full in a properly indexed book kept for the purpose all ordinances adopted by council. Every ordinance shall be signed by the mayor as a matter of course after adoption.
(b)
The council shall provide for the preparation of a general codification of all of the ordinances of the city having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted by the council by ordinance and shall be published promptly, together with all amendments thereto, with this charter and any amendment thereto, and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the city council may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as "The Code of the City of Rossville, Georgia". Copies of the code shall be furnished to all officers, departments, and agencies of the city, and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price as fixed by the council.
(c)
The council shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to this charter to be printed promptly following its adoption, and the printed or typed ordinances and charter amendments shall be made available for purchase by the public at reasonable prices to be fixed by the council. Following publication of the first Code of the City of Rossville, and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein. The council shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with respect to reproduction and distribution of any current changes in or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the Code.
