ARTICLE 3. - EXECUTIVE BRANCH—ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 3.10. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
The council, by ordinance, may establish, abolish, merge, or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city, as they shall deem necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of the city. The council shall prescribe the functions and duties of existing departments, offices and agencies or of any departments, offices and agencies hereinafter created or established; may provide that the same person shall fill any number of offices and positions of employment; and may transfer or change the function or duties of offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city.
(b)
The operations and responsibilities of each department now or hereafter established in the city shall be distributed among such divisions or bureaus as may be provided by ordinance of the council. Each department shall consist of such officers, employees and positions as may be provided by this charter or by ordinance, and shall be subject to the general supervision and guidance of the mayor and council.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority. Vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall be filled in the same manner as prescribed by this charter for an original appointment.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided by law, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(e)
All appointive officers and directors of departments shall receive such compensation as prescribed by ordinance of the city council.
Section 3.11. - Boards, commissions and authorities.
(a)
All members of boards, commissions and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the council for such terms of office and such manner of appointment as provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, term of office or manner of appointment is prescribed by this charter or by applicable state law.
(b)
No member of any board, commission, or authority shall hold any elective office in the city.
(c)
Any vacancy in office of any member of a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed herein for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this charter or any applicable state law.
(d)
No member of any board, commission, or authority shall assume office until he shall have executed and filed with the clerk of the city an oath obligating himself to faithfully and impartially perform the duties of his office, such oath to be prescribed by ordinance of the council and administered by the mayor.
(e)
Any member of a board, commission or authority may be removed from office for cause by a vote of three (3) members of the council.
(f)
Members of boards, commissions and authorities may receive such compensation and expenses in the performance of their official duties as prescribed by ordinance.
(g)
The qualifications required of members of boards, commissions and authorities shall be as prescribed by ordinance.
(h)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by applicable state law, each board, commission or authority of the city government shall elect one of its members as chairman and one member as vice-chairman for terms of one year and may elect as its secretary one of its own members or may appoint as secretary an employee of the city. Each board, commission, or authority of the city government may establish such bylaws, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this charter, ordinances of the city or applicable state laws, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the conduct of its affairs, copies of which shall be filed with the clerk of the city.
Sections 3.12—3.19. - Reserved.
Section 3.20. - City attorney.
The council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized by ordinance, and shall provide for the payment of such attorney or attorneys for services rendered to the city. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the council as directed; shall advise the council, mayor and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required of him by virtue of his position as city attorney. In addition, the city council shall be authorized to hire associate council for the city attorney if and when they should deem it necessary.
Sections 3.21—3.29. - Reserved.
Section 3.30. - City clerk.
The city council may appoint a city clerk to keep a journal of the proceedings of the city council and to maintain in a safe place all records and documents pertaining to the affairs of the city, and to perform such other duties as may be required by law or as the council may direct.
Section 3.31. - Tax collector.
The city council has appointed the city clerk as tax collector to collect all taxes, licenses, fees and other monies belonging to the city subject to the provisions of this charter and the ordinances of the city, and the tax collector shall diligently comply with and enforce all general laws of Georgia relating to the collection, sale or foreclosure of taxes by municipalities.
Editor's note— The specific designation of the city clerk as the tax collector was made to reflect the current practice of the city.
Section 3.32. - City accountant.
The city council may appoint a city accountant to perform the duties of an accountant.
Section 3.33. - Consolidation of functions.
The city council may consolidate any two or more of the positions of city clerk, city tax collector and city accountant, or any other positions, or may assign the functions of any one or more of such positions to the holder or holders of any other positions.
Sections 3.34—3.39. - Reserved.
Section 3.40. - [Reserved.]
Editor's note— Section 3.40, dealing with position classification and pay plans for city employees was deleted by the city as the same is no longer applicable.
Section 3.41. - Personnel policies.
The council shall adopt rules and regulations consistent with this charter concerning:
(1)
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment;
(2)
The administration of the position classification and pay plan, methods of promotion and application of service ratings thereto, and transfer of employees within the classification plan;
(3)
Hours of work, vacation, sick leave, and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and the order and manner in which layoff shall be effected; and
(4)
Such other personnel policies as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of the personnel affairs of the City of Rossville.
