Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Jackson County, Georgia," and may be so cited, as well as cited in shortened form, "Jackson County Code."
(Code 2005, § 1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances and resolutions, the following rules shall govern, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners:
Board of commissioners. The terms "board" and "board of commissioners" mean the board of commissioners of Jackson County, Georgia, as the governing authority of the county.
Bond. When a bond is required by law, an undertaking in writing, without seal, is sufficient; and in all bonds where the names of the obligors do not appear in the bond, but are subscribed thereto, they shall be bound by such signature.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of Jackson County, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time, except hours, is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted, but the last day shall be counted; and if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
County. The terms "county," "the county" and "this county" mean Jackson County, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" means the court provided by law for the punishment of offenders against the laws or ordinances of the county, whether it shall be the court now constituted or a court hereafter established pursuant to law.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or an official of the county to do some act or perform some function, it shall be construed to authorize the head of such department or the official to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required function, unless the terms of the provisions designate otherwise.
Gender. Reference to a gender shall include the other gender.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
Keeper, proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and co-partnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
Month, year. The terms "month" and "year" mean a calendar month and a calendar year, unless otherwise provided.
Names of officers, departments. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of Jackson County" were added thereto.
Nontechnical and technical words. The ordinary significance shall be applied to all words, except words of art, or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, in which case they shall have the significance attached to them by experts in the trade or with reference to the subject matter.
Number. The singular or plural number shall each include the other, unless expressly excluded.
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations, corporations and bodies politic, or any combination thereof, as well as to natural persons.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean generally next before and next after, unless the context requires a different significance.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" shall include any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or congregate.
Seating, minimum. Where this Code requires seating for a minimum number of persons, only chairs, stools and booths shall be provided as the required seating. The capacity of seats without dividing arms shall be determined by allotting 18 inches per occupant.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Signature, subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. Whenever the terms "state," "the state" and "this state" are used, they refer to the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall include streets, sidewalks, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes and all other public highways in the county, unless otherwise provided.
Substantial compliance. A substantial compliance with any requirement of this Code, or amendatory ordinances to this Code, especially on the part of public officers, shall be deemed and held sufficient; and no proceeding shall be declared void for want of such compliance, unless expressly provided.
Tenant, occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," when applied to a building or land, include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies, the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. The present or past tense include the future.
Writing. The term "writing" includes printing, numerals, pictures, illustrations and printed or written designs.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 2005, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; time, O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6.
Sec. 1-3. - Provisions considered continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations of such ordinances and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-4. - Catchlines of sections, history notes and editor's notes.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, or as any part of the section; nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout this Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 2005, § 1-4)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 2005, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Severability.
It is declared to be the intent of the board of commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable; and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity of any remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since such judgment or decree would have been enacted by the board of commissioners without incorporation in this Code of any such invalid or unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 2005, § 1-6)
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-7. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the county.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any county officer or employee.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the county.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the county.
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes for such improvements.
(10)
Any ordinance concerning zoning or land development.
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat.
(12)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the county.
(13)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(14)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code.
(15)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the county.
(16)
Any ordinance setting the rate of ad valorem taxes.
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part of an ordinance that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance repealed by this chapter; and all such ordinances are recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Code 2005, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-8. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances adopted subsequent to this Code, that amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. In the case of the repeal of chapters, sections and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances, as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code of Ordinances and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of The Code of Jackson County, Georgia, is amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not previously existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That The Code of Jackson County, Georgia, is amended by adding a section (division, article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section (division, article or chapter) reads as follows:…." The new section, division, article or chapter shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, divisions, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, division, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 2005, § 1-8)
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the county. A supplement to this Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the board of commissioners during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of the supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by their omission from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so in order to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the term "this ordinance," or similar terms, to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code that embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated in the Code);
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinances inserted into the Code;
but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 2005, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions of this Code, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the county to be misrepresented by such alteration. Any person who violates this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 2005, § 1-10)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-11. - Liability for violations by corporations; other associations.
(a)
Any violation of this Code by an officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization, while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall be deemed to be a violation by the corporation, association or organization.
(b)
Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by a corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and liable to punishment as well as the corporation or unincorporated association or organization for the violation by it of any provisions of this Code, where the violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order of any such person.
(Code 2005, § 1-11)
Sec. 1-12. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
Generally. Whenever in this Code, or in any other ordinance of the county, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided, the violation of such provision shall be punishable by the imposition of a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of time not to exceed 60 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, or up to the limits of any penalty provided by state law for the violation of such ordinance. Each day any violation of this Code or other ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
Additional penalty for criminal or traffic law violations.
(1)
In every case in the superior court, probate court, magistrate court or other court in the county shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of the state, or any ordinance of a political subdivision of the state there shall be imposed as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten percent of the original fine.
(2)
At the time of posting bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of the state or ordinance of a political subdivision of the state, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted. In each case in which any superior court, probate court, magistrate court or other county court shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, the additional sum equal to ten percent of the original bail or bond shall be paid as provided in O.C.G.A. § 15-21-94.
(3)
Sums required by subsection (b) of this section shall be in addition to the amount required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be paid into the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund or as required by O.C.G.A. § 47-11-51 concerning the Judges of the Probate Court Retirement Fund of Georgia.
(4)
The sums provided for in subsection (b) of this section shall be assessed and collected by the clerk or the court officer charged with the duty of collecting moneys arising from fines and forfeited bonds, and shall be paid over to the governing authority of the county in which the court is located by the tenth day of the month following the month in which such moneys are collected. Such sums paid over to the governing authority shall be deposited by the governing authority into a special account known as the county jail fund.
(5)
Any person whose duty it is to collect and remit the sums provided for in this subsection (b) who fails or refuses to remit such sums by the date required in subsection (b)(4) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(6)
Moneys collected pursuant to this subsection (b) and placed in the county jail fund shall be expended by the governing authority of the counties solely and exclusively for constructing, operating and staffing county jails, county correctional institutions and detention facilities or for the purpose of contracting for such facilities with other counties, the state, municipalities or other political subdivisions as authorized by Ga. Const. art. IX, § III, ¶ I. The county jail fund and moneys collected pursuant to this subsection (b) to be placed in the county jail fund may be pledged as security for the payment of bonds issued for the construction of county jails, county correctional institutions and detention facilities. This subsection (b) shall not preclude the appropriation or expenditure of other funds by the governing authority of any county or by the general assembly for the purpose of constructing, operating or staffing jails, correctional institutions and detention facilities.
(c)
Additional penalty for drug law violations.
(1)
In every case in which any court shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any offense prohibited by O.C.G.A. § 16-13-30, 16-13-30.1 or 16-13-31, which offenses relate to certain activities regarding marijuana, controlled substances and noncontrolled substances, the courts shall be allowed to collect, as an additional penalty, a sum equal to 50 percent of the original fine.
(2)
The sums required by O.C.G.A. § 15-21-100(a) shall be in addition to the amount required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be paid into the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund or as required by O.C.G.A. § 47-11-51 to be paid into the Judges of the Probate Courts Retirement Fund of Georgia.
(3)
The sums provided for in O.C.G.A. § 15-21-100 shall be collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the duty of collecting moneys arising from fines and forfeited bonds, and shall be paid over to the governing authority of the county in which the court is located, upon receipt of the fine and assessment, if paid in full, at the time of sentencing or upon receipt of the final payment if the fine is paid in installments. The sums paid over to the governing authority shall be deposited into a special account to be known as the county drug abuse treatment and education fund.
(4)
Moneys collected pursuant to this subsection (c) and placed in the county drug abuse treatment and education fund shall be expended by the governing authority of the county for which the fund is established solely and exclusively for drug abuse treatment and education programs relating to controlled substances and marijuana. This subsection shall not preclude the appropriation or expenditure of other funds by the governing authority of any county or by the general assembly for the purpose of drug abuse treatment or education programs.
(Code 2005, § 1-12)
State Law reference— Magistrate courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-1 et seq.; violation of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.; imposition of additional penalty for certain drug offenses, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-100; imposition of additional penalty for offense of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-112; additional penalty to be imposed in criminal and traffic cases to provide training to law enforcement officers and prosecuting officials, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; additional penalty assessments for jail construction and staffing, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93; alternative punishments for violations involving a traffic offense, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3(e); punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; display of driver's license for violations of laws pertaining to traffic and motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11; maximum punishments which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b); county responsibility for sentencing and maintenance of inmates, O.C.G.A. § 42-5-51(a); payments to peace officers annuity and benefit fund from revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.; preemption of ordinances to general law, Ga. Const. art. III, § VI, ¶ IV.
Sec. 1-13. - Remedies.
The county hereby expressly reserves the right to utilize any and all legal and equitable remedies in the enforcement of the provisions of this Code.
