Chapter 1-5 - PERSONNEL[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— To provide employee insurance, § 1-2-8; Floyd County Personnel and/or Civil Service Act, Ch. 2-14.
State Law reference— Civil service system for county employees, authority O.C.G.A. § 36-1-21.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 1-5-1—1-5-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RETIREMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Current retirement system, Ch. 1-5, Art. II et seq.; Equal Opportunity Statement, Ch. 2-14, Art. II et seq.

Sec. 1-5-20. - Short title.
The short title of said Act shall be the "Floyd County Employees' Pension Code." Said short title may be hereafter employed for all purposes to properly describe said Act.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 2746, § 1)
Sec. 1-5-21. - Pensions authorized; rules and regulations.
The commissioners with their other duties and responsibilities placed upon them by the law are empowered to establish rules and regulations governing the payment of pensions to county employees of Floyd County, as in this Act set out.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 2746, § 2)
Sec. 1-5-22. - Board of commissioner's duties.
It shall be the duty of the governing authorities of said county to pass on all applications from employees of Floyd County who may become eligible for the "standard service pension" and those who may become eligible for the "service-connected disability pension" and those who may become eligible for the "partial pension for disability from other cause after ten (10) years of service" for pension or retirement pay from Floyd County; and to pay same in the manner and form and under the conditions and limitations hereinafter set forth, and subject to the rules and regulations for the same which may be adopted by Commissioners for Floyd County. After the granting of such pensions, the pensions shall thereafter be paid under the supervision of said county authorities who may discontinue the same in the manner hereinafter set out and prescribed.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 2746, § 3)
Sec. 1-5-23. - Pension fund.
The commissioners or other lawful county authority of Floyd County shall be authorized to create a pension fund in the manner and form set out in this Act and to levy taxes to pay the same, and to discontinue the payment of the same in the manner and form hereinafter set out and such other rules and regulations prescribed by the Commissioners of Floyd County, Georgia.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 2746, § 4)
Sec. 1-5-24. - Classes of pensions.
The following classes of employees of said county shall be eligible to receive pensions under the conditions and limitations hereinafter set out and the following classes of pensions are hereby established:
(1)
Standard service pension. Any regular employee of Floyd County (male or female) who has reached the age of sixty (60) years and who has served well and faithfully for a period of twenty-two (22) years or more (of which said service five (5) years or more must have been immediately preceding the right of said employee to have benefits under this Act), may, upon application to the said Commissioners for Floyd County be retired from active service, if in the opinion of the Commissioners for Floyd County such employee is entitled to said retirement, and said employee, if retired, shall receive for the balance of his or her life, retirement benefits of a monthly pension in the amount of one-half of his or her "average monthly salary," as defined herein, but not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month.
"Average monthly salary or wage, as used in this Act, shall mean an amount equivalent to the average monthly salary or wages paid to the employee by Floyd County during the calendar year in which said employee drew his or her highest monthly salary or wage, and in the next preceding or next following calendar year, whichever will produce the highest average." To illustrate, if an applicant for a pension who is sixty-five (65) years of age and who has completed twenty-two (22) years of service on the payroll of said county received during the two (2) consecutive years in which such applicant drew the highest monthly salary or wage an average monthly salary or wage of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per month, such qualified applicant would be entitled to an allowance of a pension or retirement pay in the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month, which allowance is one-half of such average monthly salary or wage and also not in excess of the maximum provided by this law.
(2)
Service connected disability pension. Any regular employee (male or female) of Floyd County who shall be permanently and totally disabled in the performance of his duty as such employee, by accidental injuries suffered while engaged and while acting in the scope of his employment may be granted a pension to be paid monthly by Floyd County, in an amount not to exceed one-half the "average monthly salary or wage," as defined herein, paid to such employee by said Floyd County; provided, however, that such pension shall in no event exceed the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month; provided, further, that the permanent and total disability aforesaid shall be established by the sworn written statements of at least two (2) competent, reputable and practicing physicians of Floyd County, one (1) of whom shall be a regularly appointed county physician; and provided further that said commissioners aforesaid in regular meeting assembled shall vote by a majority of said board in favor of granting said pension and retirement pay to such employee and such action of said board shall be spread upon [entered on] the minutes of said board. The pension provided for in this paragraph may be granted irrespective of the term of service of such employee.
(3)
Partial pension for disability from other cause after ten years of service. Any such employee who is not otherwise entitled to a pension under this law and who has been in the active service and on the payroll of said county for ten (10) years or more (of which said service three (3) years or more must have been immediately preceding the right to have benefits under this Act) and whose health during said period of service becomes totally and permanently impaired to the extent of being unable to perform his duties by reason of injury, ill health, age or infirmity, shall be entitled to retire and to receive as a pension to be paid monthly an amount proportionate to the total number of whole years of service to the county by such employee. Said amount shall be calculated as a fractional part of one-half the average monthly salary. The denominator of such proportion shall be twenty-five (25) in all cases, and the numerator shall be such Arabic figure not to exceed twenty-five (25) as denotes the number of whole years of service of such employee to the county. If such employee at the time of applying for such disability pension has spent twenty-five (25) years or more in the service of Floyd County, the amount of such disability pension shall be 25/25 of one-half of the average monthly salary or wage of such member as defined by this Act, but not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month in any instance. To illustrate, an employee whose health becomes totally and permanently impaired after eleven (11) years of service (of which years of service the three (3) last years had been continuous) and otherwise qualified under this Act, whose average monthly salary or wage if one hundred seventy-five dollars ($175.00) per month, would be entitled to a pension of 11/25 of one-half of one hundred seventy-five dollars ($175.00) per month, that is, a pension in the amount of thirty-eight dollars and fifty cents ($38.50) per month. No pension shall exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month.
Said disability pension for disability after ten (10) years or more of service shall be paid without regard to the age of the applicant and for the period provided by this Act.
(4)
Payment of disability pension conditional on continuance of disability. Any disability pension provided by any section of this Act for disability from any cause, that is, either the service-connected disability pension or the disability pension allowed after ten (10) years or more of service (of which ten (10) years the last three (3) years or more of service must have been continuous as herein defined) shall be allowed and paid to a disabled member only during the continuance of such disability as defined by this Act. If a question should arise at any time as to the continuance of such disability and the eligibility for that reason of the pensioner to continue to receive a pension, then such question of disability shall be determined as set out in the remainder of this section.
For the purpose of ascertaining whether or not disability of a pensioner continues, the board of commissioners shall from time to time be authorized to investigate and inquire into the physical condition of such pensioner and (if said board deems it advisable) have such pensioner examined by the county physician and to make a new finding based upon such examination and the evidence regarding continuance of disability. In passing upon any question of continuance of disability, said board of commissioners may receive and consider the reports and recommendations of physicians who have examined the pensioner, and either party shall have the right to submit medical and other competent evidence on the question of continuance of disability as herein defined, and the judgment of the board upon this issue shall be entered on the minutes of the board. The pensioner may appeal from the judgment of the board, by filing written exceptions thereto with the clerk of the board within ten (10) days from the date of said judgment. Upon the filing of such exception, the question of continuance of disability shall be arbitrated by three (3) licensed physicians of this state, one (1) of whom shall be selected by the pensioner, one (1) by said board and the third by the two (2) physicians so chosen by the pensioner and the board. Such arbitrators shall have the right to examine the pensioner and hear evidence upon the question of continuance of disability to the same extent as the board of commissioners, and the written report of said arbitrators or a majority of them upon the question of continuance of disability duly returned to the board of commissioners and entered on its minutes shall constitute a final judgment upon the issue as to whether such disability then exists. If, upon such investigation, it should be determined by the board of commissioners or by the arbitrators as herein provided that such disability or impairment of health has ceased then no further pension or retirement benefit shall be paid or payable to such pensioner or his beneficiary herein named based upon the same disability.
In the event any regular employee of the county is lawfully receiving at the time of his or her death, any pension hereinabove provided for in this section, and shall have received the same for less than ten (10) years, and shall leave a spouse surviving, then and in that event only said pension shall continue to be paid to such spouse until the death or remarriage of such spouse or until the expiration of ten (10) years from the date of the first payment of said pension to said employee, whichever occurs first.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 2746, § 5; Ga. L. 1952, p. 2494; Ga. L. 1965, p. 3261)
Sec. 1-5-25. - Death benefits.
Should any employee who has contributed to said pension fund the contributions required by section 1-5-27 of said Act be hereafter killed in the performance of duty as such employee, then his surviving widow (and in the event he has no surviving widow, his "qualified minor child [children]" as defined in this Act) shall be eligible and entitled to receive as a pension a sum equivalent to fifty (50) percent of the "average monthly salary or wage" (as defined by said Act) of such employee except that such pension to a surviving widow or minor children shall not exceed the sum of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per month in any instance.
Said pension to a surviving widow shall be paid to her only during her natural life or widowhood and upon her death or remarriage, continued to the "qualified minor children" of such deceased employee, to be distributed equally among them until the youngest child attains the age of eighteen (18) years.
The term "surviving widow" as used in this section refers to and includes only a surviving widow who has been the wife of a deceased employee for a period of five (5) years prior to his retirement, or for a period of five (5) years prior to the time which [when] such employee was entitled to retire, or a period of five (5) years prior to the death of such pensioner, and who remains [un]married.
The term "qualified minor children," shall refer to and include only the surviving minor child or children of a deceased employee who are unmarried and not more than seventeen (17) years of age. Upon marriage or upon attainment by a qualified minor child of the age of eighteen (18) years, such child's interest in any pension payable under said Act or any amendment thereto shall cease and terminate. Any pension payable to the "qualified minor children" of a deceased employee shall be distributed in equal shares for the benefit of all children within that class, as herein defined and same may be paid either to the person having custody or control of such minor children or to their legal guardian. In the event of the death or marriage or attainment of the age of eighteen (18) years by one (1) of several minor children entitled to share in a pension under this law, said pension shall be distributed among the remaining eligible minor children entitled to receive same as long as there remains a minor child of such deceased employee unmarried and under the age of eighteen (18) years.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 2746, § 6; Ga. L. 1952, p. 2492)
Sec. 1-5-26. - Employee contributions.
All present employees of Floyd County who may come under this Act, as hereinabove set out and as hereafter set out and who shall be eligible for a pension under the terms hereof, shall from and after the first day of July 1951, contribute three (3) percent of his or her monthly salary but not exceeding six dollars ($6.00) per month to the pension fund of said county. Said eligible present employees shall elect in writing during the sixty-day period before July 1, 1951, whether or not he or she shall come under the provisions of this Act. To be eligible for such pensions as herein provided for, such employees must contribute said three (3) percent of his or her monthly salary or wage but not exceeding six dollars ($6.00) per month from July 1, 1951. Employees hired after July 1, 1951, shall elect in writing whether or not he or she shall come under the provisions of this Act within thirty (30) days from the date of such employment. Should any employee elect not to come under the provisions of this Act, then subsequently elects to come under the provisions of this Act, such employee must pay into said fund an amount equal to three (3) percent of the amount not in excess of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per month paid him or her by the county as salary since July 1, 1951, plus six (6) percent interest on said pension fund payment for one-half the time since July 1, 1951, or the date of his or her employment, whichever is later. An employee electing not to come under the provisions hereof shall not be allowed subsequently to elect to come under the provisions hereof after he or she has become otherwise qualified for any pension provided herein. Said pension fund shall be paid over to the trustees of the Floyd County Employees' Pension Fund, as hereinafter provided, as a trust fund for said employees who come under this Act and who may contribute to the same. Said pension fund shall be managed and administered by said trustees subject to the direction of the commissioners for Floyd County, Georgia. Should the employment by said county and the service to said county by any employee who has contributed to said fund terminate for any reason other than death, retirement or disability, then seventy-five (75) percent of the amount of his or her contribution to said pension fund shall be returned to said employee; provided such employee makes claim for the same within twelve (12) months after the termination of his or her employment; and provided, further, that at the time of such termination of his or her employment no pension has ever been granted to such employee. Should any employee of Floyd County, whose employment and service to Floyd County has terminated, be paid the amount hereby authorized to be paid to such employee, he or she shall not be eligible for a pension again unless and until such employee repays into such pension fund the amount that was heretofore withdrawn by him or her from said fund, plus six (6) percent interest on such amount from the date of such withdrawal. After an employee is granted and begins to receive a pension, such employee shall no longer be required to contribute to the pension fund, until said pension terminates.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 2746, § 7; Ga. L. 1952, p. 2494)
Sec. 1-5-27. - Deductions for, garnishment or assignment of, contributions.
From and after July 1, 1951, it shall be lawful for the said Floyd County to deduct from the monthly salary of the employees who are eligible to receive pensions under this Act, and who elect in writing to come under the provisions of said Act, three (3) percent of said monthly salary but not exceeding six dollars ($6.00) per month and place the same with the said trustees as a pension fund aforesaid. The amount or amounts of money which each of said employees thus contributes to said pension fund and which is thus deducted from the salary of said employee shall not be subject to garnishment or other process, nor shall it be subject to assignment by said employee.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 2746, § 8; Ga. L. 1952, p. 2494)
Sec. 1-5-28. - Government contributions.
There shall be appropriated by said board of commissioners from the funds of the county and paid to said trustees for said pension fund each year a sum equal to one-half of all payments or contributions made to such pension fund by employees of the county during such year, and said board of commissioners is hereby specifically authorized to levy a tax for Floyd County for such purpose.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 2746, § 9; Ga. L. 1952, p. 2494)
Sec. 1-5-29. - Computation of the length of service.
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to deprive any present employee of Floyd County, of the number of years of service in the employ of said county which he or she has to his or her credit in determining the right of such employee to a pension at any time hereafter. The number of years which any employee of said county who is eligible to [for] a pension and who comes under the provisions of this Act, has heretofore served in the employ of Floyd County, shall be preserved and shall be counted and computed to his or her credit and in his or her behalf when said employee applies for a pension under the terms of this Act and under any of the classes herein established.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 2746, § 10)
Sec. 1-5-30. - Employees included.
The employees who come under the terms of this Act and who are to receive the benefits of this Act are such employees of Floyd County who are not members of or eligible for any other retirement benefit plan, pension benefit plan, or social security benefit plan, other than the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund of Georgia; and it is intended that this Act shall be optional in its application to such eligible employees as in this section named, that is, the employees employed by and compensated by Floyd County, Georgia.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 2746, § 11; Ga. L. 1952, p. 2492)
Sec. 1-5-31. - Involuntary retirement.
As to any of the employees that come under the terms of this Act, upon their reaching the age of sixty-five (65) years and that have served twenty-five (25) years with the county, whether continuous or not, they may be retired by said board of commissioners for Floyd County, Georgia, whether said employees desire to retire or not, and receive on such retirement thereafter for the balance of the term of their natural lives the same monthly pension pay that they would be entitled to had they voluntarily applied for retirement.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 2746, § 12)
Sec. 1-5-32. - Right or option to participate.
It is intended by this section to grant to such of the personnel as are described in section 1-5-31 hereof, the right, or option, to contribute three (3) percent of his or her salary but not exceeding six dollars ($6.00) per month to such pension fund and to come under the provisions and terms of this Act.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 2746, § 13; Ga. L. 1952, p. 2492)
Sec. 1-5-33. - Rules and regulations authorized.
The commissioners for Floyd County shall have authority and power to enact by ordinance, resolution or other formal action, any and all reasonable rules and regulations which it may deem necessary for the proper administration and enforcement of this Act with reference to pensions and retirement fund.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 2746, § 14)
Sec. 1-5-34. - Pension to cease on other employment, when.
From and after the passage of this Act, if any employee of Floyd County, after having been placed on the pension roll of Floyd County and being granted a pension under the terms of this Act and rules and regulations hereunder, does thereafter become an employee of any department of the government, whether national, state, municipal or county, then and in that event his or her said pension ceases, and it shall be unlawful for any pension to be thereafter paid to said employee; nor shall it be lawful for the governing authorities of Floyd County to thereafter revive and recommence to pay said pension under any circumstance; provided that an employee who receives a disability pension from Floyd County, and is reemployed by Floyd County upon termination of his disability, then he shall be eligible, upon compliance with the provisions herein, to again come under the provisions of this Act.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 2746, § 15)
Sec. 1-5-35. - Date system operative.
The commissioners for Floyd County be and they are authorized to commence collections of the monthly amount to be paid by said employees from said employees from and after July 1, 1951, and to commence the retirement and payment of pensions from and after January 1, 1952.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 2746, § 16)
Sec. 1-5-36. - Pension fund trustees.
Said board of commissioners shall appoint three (3) adult citizens and residents of Floyd County, Georgia, as trustees of the Floyd County Employees' Pension Fund and each shall serve for a term of three (3) years and thereafter until their respective successors are appointed and qualified. Said trustees shall take and subscribe an oath to well and truly perform the duties of their office and shall give a fidelity bond, with good and ample security, to be approved by said board, payable to Floyd County, Georgia, in an amount to be fixed by the board from time to time, the premium for which shall be paid from said pension fund. Said trustees shall be the custodians of said pension fund, and shall receive the payments and contributions thereto hereinbefore provided for. All pension funds now in the hands of the treasurer of Floyd County shall be paid by him to said trustees promptly upon their appointment and qualification, and said trustees shall issue to said treasurer their receipt for such funds, which receipt shall be a full and complete discharge of said treasurer from any and all liability and responsibility for such funds.
All pensions hereinbefore provided for to be paid by Floyd County or from the pension fund shall be paid from the funds in the hands of said trustees, subject to the direction of said board of commissioners as hereinbefore provided. Said trustees shall have the right, power and authority to invest any funds in their hands in any property in which existing laws permit trustees to invest trust funds, and additionally in valid warrants issued by Floyd County, Georgia. Said trustees may invest and reinvest said funds, and sell any property in which the same are invested, at public sale, without the order of any court, with or without advertising and upon such terms and at such times as the board of commissioners of said county may direct.
Said trustees shall make an accounting and return of all of the funds and investments in their hands, and of all of their acts and doings, to the board of commissioners of said county at its regular meetings in January, April, July and October of each year.
Any trustee may be removed from office for malfeasance at any time by action of said board.
(Ga. L. 1951, p. 2746, § 20; Ga. L. 1952, p. 2492)
