ARTICLE IV. - A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT

Section 400. - Declaration of legislative intent.
The purpose of continuing an agricultural district shall be to allow the preservation of agricultural pursuits currently in the city, to assure the protection of the existing natural resources of the city, and to allow those agricultural activities that exist prior to January 1, 1997 in A-1 zones to continue. Once the activity is discontinued for a period of at least twelve (12) months, the property shall be rezoned in compliance with state and city statutes.
(Ord. of 2-10-97(2))
Section 401. - Use regulations.
A building may be erected, altered, or used, and a lot may be used or occupied, for any of the following purposes, and no other:
(1)
Agriculture.
(2)
Single-family detached dwelling units, excluding mobile homes.
(3)
Educational, religious, philanthropic use, excluding correctional or penal institutions.
(4)
Day camp, summer camp, private swimming club, provided that no year-round dwellings are permitted in connection therewith except for caretaker's cottage, provided that its lot area is in accordance with the nonagricultural lot size requirements of this district.
(5)
Hospital, sanatorium, convalescent home, personal care home, nursing home, and family day care home.
(6)
Municipal county, state or federal use, excluding sanitary landfill.
(7)
Passenger station for public transportation, telephone central office, other public utility use.
(8)
Cemetery, provided the land devoted to this use is not less than ten (10) acres in size.
(9)
Noncommercial recreational uses, such as totlots, playgrounds, and ballfields.
(10)
Accessory use on the same lot with and customarily incidental to any of the foregoing permitted uses.
(Ord. of 3-11-91, ยง 4)
Section 402. - Height regulations.
The maximum height of buildings and other structures erected or enlarged in this district shall be:
(1)
For any other nondwelling building or other structure, thirty-five (35) feet, except that such height may be increased to a maximum of sixty-five (65) feet or such increased height as may be warranted when approved by the board of appeals for such structures as barns, water towers, silos, chimneys, and stacks, provided that for every foot in height in excess of thirty-five (35) feet there shall be added to each yard requirement one (1) corresponding foot of width or depth.
(2)
For any dwelling, thirty-five (35) feet, not to exceed three (3) stories.
(3)
For any building accessory to any dwelling use, fifteen (15) feet, not exceeding one (1) story.
Section 403. - Area, width and yard requirements.
(a)
Lot area and width: For agricultural uses there shall be no minimum lot size or width. For nonagricultural use a lot area of not less than two (2) acres and a lot width of not less than two hundred (200) feet at the building line shall be provided for every nonagricultural structure erected or used for any use permitted in this district.
(b)
Front yard: There shall be a front yard on each lot which shall be not less than fifty (50) feet in depth from the right-of-way.
(c)
Side yards:
(1)
On each lot there shall be two (2) side yards having an aggregate width of not less than fifty (50) feet, neither side yard having a width of twenty (20) feet; except that no farm building or other structure for keeping or raising or livestock or poultry shall be erected or used nearer to any lot line than fifty (50) feet.
(2)
On each corner lot there shall be two (2) side yards, the side abutting the street having a width of not less than fifty (50) feet from the ultimate right-of-way, and the side yard not abutting the street having a width of not less than twenty (20) feet; except that no farm building or other structure for keeping or raising of livestock or poultry shall be erected or used nearer to any lot line than fifty (50) feet.
(d)
Rear yard: There shall be a rear yard on each lot the depth of which shall not be less than seventy-five (75) feet, except that an accessory use structure may be erected within the rear yard not closer to the rear property line than forty (40) feet, and no farm building or other structure for keeping or raising of livestock or poultry shall be erected or used nearer to any rear lot line than fifty (50) feet.
(e)
Building coverage: Not more than twenty-five (25) percent of the area of any lot shall be occupied by buildings.
Section 404. - Environmental protection.
All buildings and uses shall conform to regulations adopted by the state and county board of health and shall be made for the proper disposal of organic wastes, fertilizers, pesticides, and other chemicals so as to avoid pollution of the air, ground, or water.
