ARTICLE XXVI. - VIOLATIONS, FINES, REMEDIES AND CHARGES

Section 2600. - Violations.
It shall be the duty of the building inspector to take cognizance of violation of this ordinance. He shall investigate each violation which comes to his attention whether by observation or by communication. He shall order in writing the correction of such conditions as are found to be in violation of this ordinance. Failure to secure a zoning or use permit or board of appeals certificate when required, previous to erection, construction or alteration to a building, or change in use of land or building as in this ordinance provided, shall be a violation of this ordinance.
Section 2601. - Fines and charges.
For any and every violation of the provisions of this ordinance, the owner, general agent or contractor of a building or premises where such violation has been committed or shall exist, and the lessee or tenant of an entire building or entire premises where such violation has been committed or shall exist, and the owner, general agent, contractor, lessee or tenant of any part of a building or premises in which part such violation has been committed or shall exist, and the owner, general agent, contractor or any other person, who knowingly commits, takes part or assists in any such violation, or who maintains any building or premises in which any such violations shall exist, shall be liable on conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each and every offense and, whenever such person shall have been notified by the building inspector, or by service or warrant in a prosecution, or in any other way, that he is committing such violation of this ordinance, each day that he shall continue such violation after such notification shall constitute a separate offense punishable by a like fine. Such fines shall be collected by the institution of summary proceedings before a magistrate or justice of the peace, a resident of the city, in the manner that such fines are now by law collected.
Editor's note— There are no longer justices of the peace.
Section 2602. - Remedies.
In case any building, sign or other structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained; or any building, sign, structure or land is used; or any hedge, tree, shrubs or other growth is maintained, in violation of this ordinance or of any regulations made pursuant hereto, in addition to other remedies provided by law, any appropriate action or proceeding, whether by legal process or otherwise, may be instituted or taken to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use; to restrain, correct or abate such violation; to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure or land; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about such premises.
