ARTICLE XXI. - ADMINISTRATION

Section 2100. - [Enforcement officials.]
The provisions of this ordinance shall be enforced by the building inspector, who shall also be the zoning officer, with the aid of the police department and other city agencies.
Section 2101. - Duties and powers.
It shall be the duty of the building inspector and he shall have power to:
(1)
Require that the application for a building permit and the accompanying plot plan shall contain all the information necessary to enable him to ascertain whether the proposed building complies with provisions of this ordinance.
(2)
Keep a permanent record of all plans and application for permits, and all permits issued with notations as to special conditions attached thereto. All records should be open for public inspection and shall be the property of the city.
(3)
Require that no building permit shall be issued until the building inspector has certified that the proposed building, alteration or use complies with all the provisions of this ordinance.
(4)
Conduct inspections and surveys to determine compliance or noncompliance with the terms of this ordinance. In carrying out such surveys, the building inspector or his representative may enter upon any land or buildings.
(5)
Make written orders requiring compliance with the provisions of this ordinance to be served personally or by registered mail.
(6)
Maintain a map showing the current zoning classification of all land.
(7)
Maintain a map and register showing the registration, identity, location and type of all nonconforming uses.
(8)
Participate in all proceedings before the board of appeals, present facts and information to assist the board in reaching a decision, resist and oppose any deviations from standard provisions of this ordinance and have decisions of the board reviewed in a court of proper jurisdiction when, in the judgment of the building inspector, such review is desirable.
(9)
The building inspector shall have authority to issue permits only for construction and uses which are in accordance with the ordinance. It shall be unlawful for any person to commence work for the erection or alteration of any building until a building permit has been duly issued therefor. Permits for construction and uses which are a special exception to such general requirements shall be issued by the building inspector only upon order of the city council. The building inspector shall issue no permits for the construction or use of any land or buildings unless it also conforms to the requirements of all other zoning ordinances.
Cross reference— Buildings; construction and related activities, ch. 6.
Section 2102. - Permits.
No building shall be constructed or altered, or the use of any building and/or land changed, until a permit has been secured from the building inspector. Upon completion of the work authorized by any permit, the applicant for the permit shall notify the building inspector of such completion. No permits shall be considered as complete or as permanently effective until the building inspector has noted on the permit that the work has been inspected and approved as being in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.
Section 2103. - Application for permits.
All applications for permits shall be made in writing by the owner or tenants or authorized agent and shall be filed with the building inspector. The application:
(1)
Shall include a statement as to the proposed use of the building and/or land.
(2)
Shall be accompanied by working plans drawn to scale, showing the location of the building in relation to property and road lines.
(3)
Shall give the name and address of the surveyor or other person competent to give such location and to stake the road lines.
Section 2104. - Variance.
If the applicant desires the board of appeals to grant a variance, then in addition, the application shall be set forth the nature of the variance and shall state briefly the reasons why such variance should be granted.
Section 2105. - Appeals.
An appeal from the decision of the building inspector shall be taken within thirty (30) days.
Section 2106. - Fees.
The applicant for a permit shall, at the time of application, pay to the building inspector for the use of the city, a fee in accordance with a fee schedule adopted by ordinance of the city council upon the enactment of this ordinance or as such schedule may be amended by ordinance of the city council.
