DIVISION 7. - COMPLIANCE MONITORING

Sec. 12-231. - Right of entry: inspection and sampling.
The control authority shall have the right upon presentation of proper credentials to enter the premises of any user to determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this article and any wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall allow the control authority ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
(1)
Where a user has security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation of suitable identification, the control authority will be permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
(2)
The control authority shall have the right to set up on the user's property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
(3)
The control authority may require the user to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall be calibrated at least annually by a certified technician to ensure their accuracy. Calibration records shall be made available to the control authority upon request.
(4)
Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user at the written or verbal request of the control authority and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the user.
(5)
Unreasonable delays in allowing the control authority access to the user's premises shall be a violation of this article.
Sec. 12-232. - Search warrants.
If the control authority has been refused access to a building, structure or property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this article, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program of the control authority designed to verify compliance with this article or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, then the control authority may seek issuance of a search warrant from the Superior Court of Toombs County or Montgomery County depending on the location of the user.
Secs. 12-233—12-240. - Reserved.
