DIVISION 12. - SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION

Sec. 12-301. - Performance bonds.
The control authority may decline to issue or reissue a wastewater discharge permit to any user which has failed to comply with any provision of this article, a previous wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement unless such user first files a satisfactory bond, payable to the City of Vidalia, in a sum not to exceed a value determined by the control authority to be necessary to achieve consistent compliance.
Sec. 12-302. - Liability insurance.
The control authority may decline to issue or reissue a wastewater discharge permit to any user which has failed to comply with any provision of this article, a previous wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, unless the user first submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances sufficient to restore or repair damage to the POTW caused by its discharge.
Sec. 12-303. - Water supply severance.
Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, water service to the user may be severed. Service will only recommence, at the user's expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply.
Sec. 12-304. - Public nuisances.
A violation of any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the control authority. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the provisions of the City of Vidalia Code [insert proper citation] governing such nuisances, including reimbursing the City of Vidalia for any costs incurred in removing, abating, or remedying said nuisance.
Sec. 12-305. - Informant rewards.
The control authority may pay up to [zero dollars ($0.00)] for information leading to the discovery of noncompliance by a user. In the event that the information provided results in an administrative fine or civil penalty levied against the user, the control authority may disperse up to [zero (0) percent] of the collected fine or penalty to the informant. However, a single reward payment may not exceed [zero dollars ($0.00)].
Sec. 12-306. - Contractor listing.
Users which have not achieved compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements are not eligible to receive a contractual award for the sale of goods or services to the City of Vidalia. Existing contracts for the sale of goods or services to the City of Vidalia held by a user found to be in significant noncompliance with pretreatment standards or requirements may be terminated at the discretion of the City of Vidalia.
Secs. 12-307—12-320. - Reserved.
