DIVISION 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 12-101. - Purpose.
This article sets forth uniform requirements for users of the Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW) for the City of Vidalia and enables the City of Vidalia to comply with all applicable federal and state laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 USC 1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR Part 403). The objectives of this article are:
(1)
To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will interfere with its operation;
(2)
To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW which will pass through the POTW, inadequately treated, into receiving waters or otherwise be incompatible with the POTW;
(3)
To protect both POTW personnel, who may be affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment, and the general public;
(4)
To improve opportunities for reuse and recycling of wastewater and sludge from the POTW;
(5)
To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of operation, maintenance, and improvement of the POTW; and
(6)
To enable the City of Vidalia to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements and any other federal or state laws to which the POTW is subject.
This article authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge permits; provides for monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities; establishes administrative review procedures; requires user reporting; and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
Sec. 12-102. - Applicability.
This article shall apply to all users of the POTW.
Sec. 12-103. - Administration.
Except as otherwise provided herein, the control authority, as defined in this article, shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this article. Any powers granted to, or duties imposed upon, the control authority, may be delegated by the control authority to his/her authorized representative.
Sec. 12-104. - Abbreviations.
The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
EXPAND
BOD Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CFR Code of Federal Regulations
EPA United States Environmental Protection Agency
gpd gallons per day
mg/L milligrams per liter
NPDES National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
POTW Publicly Owned Treatment Works
RCRA Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
TSS Total Suspended Solids
USC United States Code
  Sec. 12-105. - Definitions.
Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and phrases, as used in this article, shall have the meanings hereinafter designated.
Act or "the Act". The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
Approval authority. The State of Georgia, Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division
Authorized signatory of the user.
(1)
If the user is a corporation:
a.
The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
b.
The manager of one (1) or more manufacturing, production, or operation facilities employing more than two hundred fifty (250) persons or having gross annual sales or expenditures exceeding twenty-five (25) million (in second-quarter 1980 dollars), if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures;
(2)
If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general partner or proprietor, respectively;
(3)
If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility: a director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of the activities of the government facility, or his/her designee;
(4)
The individuals described in paragraphs (1) through (3) above may designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the written authorization is submitted to the control authority.
Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures for five (5) days at twenty (20)° Celsius usually expressed as a concentration of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
Categorical pretreatment standard or categorical standard. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 USC 1317) which apply to a specific category of users and which appear in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
City of Vidalia. The City of Vidalia or the City Council of Vidalia or its authorized representative.
Composite sample. The sample resulting from the combination of individual wastewater samples taken at selected intervals based on an increment of either flow or time, as specified by the control authority.
Control authority. The City of Vidalia; the person(s) authorized by the City of Vidalia to supervise, administer, implement, or otherwise perform activities of the industrial pretreatment program, and who is charged with these duties and responsibilities by this article.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The United States Environmental Protection Agency or its authorized representative.
Existing source. Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of which commenced prior to the publication by EPA of proposed categorical pretreatment standards, which will be applicable to such source if the standard is thereafter promulgated in accordance with Section 307 of the Act.
Grab sample. An individual sample collected over a period of time not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes.
Indirect discharge or discharge. The introduction of pollutants into the POTW from any non-domestic source regulated under Section 307(b), (c), or (d) of the Act.
Industrial user. A discharger into the POTW of non-domestic wastewater.
Interference. A discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal.
May. Discretionary or permissive.
Medical waste. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding, surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis wastes.
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit. A permit issued to a POTW or other discharger pursuant to Section 402 of the Act.
New source.
(1)
Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under Section 307(c) of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
a.
The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed at a site at which no other source is located; or
b.
The building, structure, facility, or installation totally replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at an existing source; or
c.
The production or wastewater generating processes of the building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are substantially independent factors such as the extent to which the new facility is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should be considered.
(2)
Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the criteria of subsection (1)(b) or (c) above, but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to existing process or production equipment.
(3)
Construction of a new source as defined under this paragraph has commenced if the owner or operator has:
a.
Begun, or caused to begin as part of a continuous onsite construction program
1.
Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or equipment; or
2.
Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or equipment; or
b.
Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of facilities or equipment intended for use in its operation within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this paragraph.
Non-contact cooling water. Water used for cooling which does not come into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or finished product.
Pass through. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the State of Georgia in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the City of Vidalia's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation).
Person. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, or local governmental entities.
pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed in standard units.
Pollutant. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, agricultural and industrial wastes, and the characteristics of the wastewater i.e., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, chemical oxygen demand (COD), toxicity, or odor.
Pretreatment. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater prior to (or in lieu of) introducing such pollutants into the POTW. This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes; by process changes; or by other means (except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard).
Pretreatment requirements. Any substantive or procedural requirement, other than a pretreatment standard, related to pretreatment and imposed on a user.
Pretreatment standards or standards. Pretreatment standards shall mean prohibited discharge standards, categorical pretreatment standards, and local limits.
Prohibited discharge standards or prohibited discharges. Prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions appear in section 12-121.
Publicly owned treatment works (POTW). A "treatment works," as defined by Section 212 of the Act (33 USC 1292) which is owned by the City of Vidalia. This definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment plant. The term also means the City of Vidalia.
Septic tank waste. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
Shall. Mandatory.
Significant industrial user.
(1)
A user subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
(2)
A user that:
a.
Discharges an average of twenty-five thousand (25,000) gpd or more of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling, and boiler blowdown wastewater); or
b.
Contributes a process wastestream which makes up five (5) percent or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment plant; or
c.
Is designated as such by the control authority on the basis that it has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
(3)
Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in [subsection] (2) has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the control authority may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from a user and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6) determine that such user should not be considered a significant industrial user.
Slug load. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in this article or any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
Suspended solids. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquid, and which is removable by laboratory filtering.
User. A discharger into the POTW.
Wastewater. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are contributed to the POTW.
The use of the singular shall be construed to include the plural and the plural shall include the singular as indicated by the context of its use.
Secs. 12-106—12-120. - Reserved.
