DIVISION 4. - WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION

Sec. 12-161. - Wastewater analysis.
When requested by the control authority, a user must submit information on the nature and characteristics of the user's wastewater. The control authority is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require users to update the information. Failure to provide the information shall be reasonable grounds for denying or terminating service to the user and shall be considered a violation of this article.
Sec. 12-162. - Wastewater discharge permit requirement.
(a)
No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the control authority, except a significant industrial user that has filed a timely application pursuant to section 12-163 of this article may continue to discharge for the time period specified therein.
(b)
The control authority may require other users to obtain wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this article.
(c)
Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this article and subjects the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in divisions 9 through 12 of this article. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state, and local law.
Sec. 12-163. - Wastewater discharge permitting: existing connections.
Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who was discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this article and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within ninety (90) days after said date, apply to the control authority for a wastewater discharge permit in accordance with section 12-165 of this article, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after one hundred fifty (150) days of the effective date of this article except in accordance with a wastewater discharge permit issued by the control authority.
Sec. 12-164. - Wastewater discharge permitting: new connections.
Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit that proposes to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with section 12-165 of this article, must be filed at least ninety (90) days prior to the date upon which any discharge will begin or recommence.
Sec. 12-165. - Wastewater discharge permit application contents.
All users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit must submit a permit application. The control authority may require a user to submit as part of an application the following information:
(1)
The information required by subsection 12-201(b) of this article;
(2)
Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
(3)
Number of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or actual hours of operation;
(4)
Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and rate of production;
(5)
Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per day);
(6)
Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details to show all sewers, floor drains, chemical storage areas, and appurtenances by size, location, and elevation, and all points of discharge;
(7)
Time and duration of discharges; and
(8)
Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the control authority to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application.
Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will be returned to the user for revision.
Sec. 12-166. - Application signatories and certification.
All wastewater discharge-permit applications and user reports must be signed by an authorized signatory of the user and contain the following certification statement:
"I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware there are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations."
Sec. 12-167. - Wastewater discharge permit decisions.
The control authority will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require additional information. Within sixty (60) days of receipt of a complete wastewater discharge permit application, the control authority will determine whether or not to issue a wastewater discharge permit. The control authority may deny any application for a wastewater discharge permit.
Secs. 12-168—12-180. - Reserved.
