Chapter 11 - MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Land clearing and tree protection, § 6-81 et seq.; licenses and business regulations, ch. 10; mobile home parks, App. A, art. XVIII.

Sec. 11-1. - Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them:
Mobile home: A detached residential dwelling unit designed for transportation, after fabrication, on streets or highways on its own wheels or on a flatbed or other trailer, and arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks or other temporary or permanent foundations, connections to utilities, and the like. A travel trailer or recreational vehicle is not to be considered as a mobile home, provided it is not occupied while parked outside of a mobile home park.
Mobile home park: A plot of ground with space for the parking of more than one mobile home, either permanently or temporarily.
(Code 1968, §§ 11-5, 11-12)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 11-2. - Chapter inapplicable to licensed dealers.
This chapter shall not apply to mobile home dealers licensed by the city.
(Code 1968, § 11-11)
Sec. 11-3. - Mobile home registration permit; decal; subject to taxation.
(a)
All mobile homes intended to be used as a residential structure now existing or set up in the city hereafter shall be registered with the city and a permit shall be obtained by the owner thereof within ten (10) days of the move into the city. Such permit shall include a decal to be mounted in a conspicuous place near the main entrance to a mobile home so as to be readily seen from twenty (20) feet.
(b)
At the time the owner of a mobile home registers such home the owner shall check to see whether a property tax return for the mobile home is required. All such laws and ordinances or property taxation now in effect shall be applicable to mobile homes.
(c)
Prior to any mobile home being moved or relocated the owners shall notify the city clerk of such move. If any mobile home is moved outside the city the owner shall give such owners' forwarding address so that tax bill can be sent to such owner. All taxes not paid shall be collected as provided by law.
(d)
Mobile home park operators shall notify the city of all existing mobile homes and their owners that are in the park on January first of each year. The operator shall also inform the city of new mobile home tenants in a mobile home park and also inform the new tenants of the requirements for registration.
(Code 1968, § 11-4)
Sec. 11-4. - Parking of mobile home, etc., outside of park—Subject to conditions and regulations.
Every person not parking in an approved mobile home park, desiring to park, place or maintain, temporarily or permanently, a mobile home, trailer or similar structure (hereinafter referred to as mobile home) in the city, shall not do so except under the conditions and regulations prescribed in this chapter.
(Code 1968, § 11-1)
Sec. 11-5. - Same—Prohibited; exception.
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a mobile home in the city in a place other than a mobile home park; provided however, that this shall not apply to mobile homes continuously so parked since July 27, 1967; provided further, that when such mobile homes parked in a place other than a mobile home park are moved or removed therefrom, it shall thenceforth be unlawful for such space to be occupied by a mobile home.
(Code 1968, § 11-2)
Sec. 11-6. - Same—No new permits.
(a)
After July 28, 1967, no new permits for mobile homes shall be issued by the city clerk and no mobile home shall be placed within the city except in a licensed mobile home park under the ordinances and regulations in force.
(b)
Upon removal of any mobile home which has been validly permitted heretofore outside of a mobile home park, such mobile home shall not be replaced by another mobile home.
(Code 1968, § 11-3)
Sec. 11-7. - Mobile home park license—Required.
All mobile home parks shall be licensed and shall operate under the conditions prescribed in this chapter.
(Code 1968, § 11-5)
Sec. 11-8. - Same—Application; deposits.
Prior to establishing a mobile home park the person desiring to operate same shall make application to the council for a license to operate a mobile home park, which application shall contain information as to the location of the real property, the number and location of the spaces to be operated, the name of the owner of the land, the name of the operator and manager of such park, a statement as to available water and sanitary facilities, and the number of mobile homes to be rented by the owner. Such application shall be sworn to by the applicant, and accompanied by a deposit payment for a yearly business license, and a deposit payment for all water and sewer taps and meters for each space.
(Code 1968, § 11-6)
Sec. 11-9. - Same—Issuance; denial.
The city council shall within ten (10) days investigate an application to operate a mobile home park as to the health, safety, moral and general welfare to the people of the city, approve or disapprove same by usual majority vote, and issue or refuse to issue a license for same. The signing of the license by three (3) council members, one of whom shall be from the ward in which the mobile home park is to be located, shall be an approval of the issuance of such license, and the clerk shall be authorized to issue same upon such approval.
(Code 1968, § 11-7)
Sec. 11-10. - Same—Fee as prescribed.
The fee for issuance of a license to operate a mobile home park shall be as provided by ordinance.
(Code 1968, § 11-8)
Sec. 11-11. - Renewal of licenses and permits.
The licenses and permits under this chapter shall be renewable each year at the prices and pursuant to the provisions set forth herein.
(Code 1968, § 11-10)
Sec. 11-12. - Transfer.
Mobile home park licenses granted hereunder shall not be transferred to a new owner or operator without approval of the city council.
(Code 1968, § 11-14)
Sec. 11-13. - Operation, maintenance of mobile home, park.
All persons having a permit or license hereunder shall operate and maintain such mobile home or mobile home park in an orderly, sanitary, moral manner and upon violation of same, the council, after giving five (5) days' notice, may have a hearing and revoke the permit or license to maintain same.
(Code 1968, § 11-9)
Sec. 11-14. - Design standards for mobile home parks.
(a)
Mobile home parks shall contain a minimum of three (3) acres and each mobile home lot shall contain a minimum of four thousand (4,000) square feet.
(b)
Each mobile home lot shall have a minimum width and frontage of forty (40) feet on a street within the mobile home park.
(c)
Each mobile home lot shall be clearly marked and staked and the proposed location of the mobile home shall be clearly marked and staked.
(d)
Each mobile home lot shall be equipped with a public water and sewer system which meets the standards of county health authorities.
(e)
No mobile home lot shall have direct access to a publicly dedicated street. All mobile home lots shall have access to an interior roadway which is not less than thirty (30) feet in width. Such roadway shall have unobstructed access to a public street.
(f)
Parking areas for tenants and visitors shall be clearly designated.
(g)
Each mobile home park shall have provisions for a minimum of five (5) mobile home spaces at the time the park is established.
(Code 1968, § 11-13)
