DIVISION 10. - ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES

Sec. 12-261. - Notification of violation.
When the control authority finds that a user has violated (or continues to violate) any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the control authority shall serve upon a representative of the user, such representative meeting the criteria of authorized signatory, a written notice of violation. Within five (5) days of the receipt of this notice an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof to include specific required actions shall be submitted by the user to the control authority. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the control authority to take any action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
Sec. 12-262. - Consent orders.
The control authority may enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include specific action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to sections 12-264 and 12-265 of this article and shall be judicially enforceable.
Sec. 12-263. - Show cause hearing.
The control authority may order a user which has violated or continues to violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear before the control authority and show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least fourteen (14) days prior to the hearing. Such notice shall be served on a representative of the user who meets the criteria of an authorized signatory. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
Sec. 12-264. - Compliance orders.
When the control authority finds that a user has violated or continues to violate any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the control authority may issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing the user to achieve compliance within a specified time. If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance orders may also contain other requirements to address the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring, and management practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a national pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
Sec. 12-265. - Cease and desist orders.
When the control authority finds that a user has violated (or continues to violate) any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or that the user's past violations are likely to recur, the control authority may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist all such violations and directing the user to:
(1)
Immediately comply with all requirements; and
(2)
Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
Sec. 12-266. - Administrative fines.
(a)
When the control authority finds that a user has violated or continues to violate any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the control authority may fine such user in an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Such fines shall be assessed based on per violation, per day. The control authority may add the costs of preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to the fine.
(b)
Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after thirty (30) calendar days, be assessed an additional penalty of ten (10) percent of the unpaid balance, and interest shall accrue thereafter at a rate of seven and one-half (7½) percent per month. A lien against the user's property will be sought for unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
(c)
Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for the control authority to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine amount within thirty (30) days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has merit, the control authority shall convene a hearing on the matter within thirty (30) days of receiving the request from the user. In the event the user's appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to the user.
(d)
Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
Sec. 12-267. - Emergency suspensions.
The control authority may immediately suspend a user's discharge, after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The control authority may also immediately suspend a user's discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which presents or may present an endangerment to the environment.
(1)
Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the control authority shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The control authority shall allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the control authority that the period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings in section 12-268 of this article are initiated against the user.
(2)
A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement, describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence, to the control authority within five (5) days.
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
Sec. 12-268. - Termination of discharge.
Any user that violates the conditions in section 12-186 of this article is subject to discharge termination. Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under section 12-263 of this article why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by the control authority shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
Secs. 12-269—12-280. - Reserved.
