ARTICLE XII. - PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 42.
State Law reference— Peddlers generally, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 50-441. - License required.
Each peddler and itinerant merchant as such terms are defined in section 50-442, who does business within this city shall be required to obtain a license from the clerk in the manner specified in this article.
(Code 1982, § 5-204(1))
Sec. 50-442. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Itinerant merchant means any person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident of the city or not, who engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise within the city, and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad box car, boat or public room in any hotel, lodging house, apartment or shop within the city for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or at public auction.
Peddler means any person, whether a resident of this city or not, traveling by foot, wagon, automotive vehicle, or any other type of conveyance from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden produce, farm products or provisions who offers and exposes the same for sale, or who, without travelling from place to place, sells or offers the same for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle, railroad car, other vehicle or conveyance.
(Code 1982, § 5-204(2))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 50-443. - License application.
Application for a license under this article shall be made as provided in article I of this chapter but shall contain the following additional information:
(1)
The fingerprints of the person having the management or supervision of the applicant's business, or in lieu thereof at least three letters of recommendation from reliable property owners in the county in which the business is to be conducted, certifying to the applicant's good character and business responsibility, or other evidence which establishes the good character and business responsibility of such person or persons to the satisfaction of the mayor and council;
(2)
The places in the city where it is proposed to carry on applicant's business, and the length of time during which it is proposed that said business shall be conducted;
(3)
The places, other than the permanent place of business of the applicant, where the applicant within the six months next preceding the date of said application conducted a transient business, stating the nature thereof and giving the post office and street address of any building or office in which such business was conducted;
(4)
A statement of the nature, character and quality of the goods, wares or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant in the city; the invoice value and quality of such goods, wares and merchandise; where the goods or property to be sold are manufactured or produced; and where such goods or products are located at the time said application is filed;
(5)
A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising done or proposed to be done in order to attract customers, and, if required by the clerk, copies of all said advertising whether by handbills, circulars, newspaper advertising or otherwise, shall be attached to said application as exhibits thereto; and
(6)
Whether or not the person or persons having the management or supervision of the applicant's business have been convicted of a crime, misdemeanor, or the violation of any ordinance, the nature of such offense, and the punishment assessed therefor.
(Code 1982, § 5-204(4))
Sec. 50-444. - Bond.
Before any license shall be issued for engaging in a transient or itinerant business as provided in this article, the applicant for such license shall file with the clerk a bond running to the city in the sum set by the council, executed by the applicant, as principal, and two sureties upon which service of process may be made in the state; said bond to be approved by the city attorney, conditioned that the applicant shall comply fully with all of the provisions of the ordinances of this city and the statutes of this state regulating and concerning the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, and will pay all judgments rendered against said applicant for any violation of said ordinances or statutes, or any of them, together with all judgments and cost that may be recovered against him by any person or persons for damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deception practiced on any person transacting such business with
such applicant, whether said misrepresentations or deceptions were made or practiced by the owners or by their servants, agents, or employees, either at the time of making the sale or through any advertisement of any character whatsoever, printed or circulated with reference to the goods, wares, and merchandise sold or any part thereof. Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the city to the use of the aggrieved person. Such bond must be approved by the city attorney, both as to form and as to the responsibility of the sureties thereon.
(Code 1982, § 5-204(5))
Sec. 50-445. - Service of process.
Before any license as herein provided shall be issued for engaging in business as a peddler or itinerant merchant in this city, the applicant for such license shall file with the clerk an instrument nominating and appointing the clerk his true and lawful agent with full power and authority to acknowledge service of notice of process for an on behalf of said applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the business transacted under said license and the bond given as required by this section, or for the performance of the conditions of said bond, or for any breach thereof, which said instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect that said applicant for said license consents and agrees that service of any notice or process may be made upon said agent, and when so made shall be taken and held to be a valid as if personally served upon the person or persons applying for the said license under this article, according to the law of this or any other state, and waiving acknowledgment of service or manner of service. Immediately upon service of process upon the city clerk, as herein provided, the clerk shall send to the licensee at his last known address, by registered mail, a copy of said process.
(Code 1982, § 5-204(6))
Sec. 50-446. - License fee established.
The business license fee for each peddler and itinerant merchant doing business in the city shall be for daily, weekly, monthly and yearly amounts, all on file in the clerk's office.
(Code 1982, § 5-204(7))
Sec. 50-447. - Duty to exhibit license.
All persons obtaining a license under the provisions of this article shall be required to exhibit such license at the request of any citizen.
(Code 1982, § 5-204(8))
Sec. 50-448. - Loud noises and speaking devices.
No licensee under this article, nor anyone on his behalf, shall shout, make any outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell, or use any other sound device including any loud-speaking radio or amplifying system upon any of the streets, alleys, parks, or other public places of the city or upon any private premises in the city where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks or other public places for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares or merchandise which such licensee proposes to sell.
(Code 1982, § 5-204(9))
Secs. 50-449—50-480. - Reserved.
