ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 50-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means the component of the occupation tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Dominant line means the type of business within a multiple line business, which is the major and principal source of such business at a single location. Businesses occupying space at the same location as a multiple-line business under a separate name or another business entity shall not be considered a part of the multiple line business.
Employee means an individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds FICA, federal income tax, or state income tax from such person's compensation or whose employer issues to such persons for purposes of documenting compensation a form IRS W-2, but not a form IRS 1099; and, is any individual who, for compensation, exerts substantial effort within the state for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients.
Location or office means a fixed place located within the city from which a person conducts business, but shall not include a temporary or construction work site located in the city for less than six months for the purpose of serving a single customer or project which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession or occupation which has a location or office.
Occupation tax means a tax levied for revenue purposes on persons, partnerships, corporations or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession or business for revenue raising purposes in the city.
Occupation tax certificate means a document issued by the city acknowledging payment of the occupation tax and administrative fee.
Person means sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, for-profit, or any other form of business organization, but specifically excludes all nonprofit organizations.
Practitioners of professions and occupations means as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5, but does not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business if such business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fee means a fee, whether designated as license fees, permit fees or another name, which are required by the local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or an aid to the regulation of an occupation, profession or business. Such fee shall approximate the cost of regulatory activity by the city. The regulatory fee cannot include an administrative fee. Development impact fees as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2 or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
Regulatory fee certificate means a document issued by the city acknowledging payment of a regulatory fee.
(Ord. No. 99-04B, § 5-101, 10-6-1998)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 50-2. - Administrative fee.
A non-prorated, non-refundable administrative fee on file in the clerk's office is required on all occupation tax accounts for the initial registration, annual renewal or reopening of such accounts.
(Ord. No. 99-04B, § 5-102, 10-6-1998)
Sec. 50-3. - Regulatory fee.
(a)
Businesses and persons engaging in the occupations or businesses set forth in Appendix A must pay a non-refundable regulatory fee in accordance with the rate set forth in Appendix A to Ordinance No. 99-04B. The regulatory fee is an exercise of the police power of the city. The regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee unless the business regulated is subject to an occupational tax as determined in this chapter.
(b)
If a business or individual initially engages in an activity regulated by the city on or after April 1 in any year, the regulatory fee for the remaining portion of the year shall be reduced 25 percent of the regulatory fee for each successive three month period thereafter, with a minimum proration of 25 percent of the annual fee for all certificates issued on or after October 1 in any year.
(c)
Every business, individual and location subject to payment of a regulatory fee levied by this chapter shall display a current regulatory fee certificate in a conspicuous place at the location for which such certificate was issued. If the taxpayer does not have a permanent location within the city, the regulatory fee certificate or an unaltered duplicate of such certificate shall be shown on request.
(Ord. No. 99-04B, § 5-103, 10-6-1998)
Editor's note— Appendix A to Ordinance No. 99-04B is not printed herein but is on file in the clerk's office.
Sec. 50-4. - Occupation tax levied; limitations.
An occupation tax based upon number of employees in the state is levied upon businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices within the corporate limits of the city and, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, upon out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the city but with employees or agents engaging in substantial efforts to solicit business or serve customers or clients in the state. The occupation tax shall be determined according to the number of employees of the business or practitioner as computed on a full-time position basis or full-time equivalent basis, provided that for the purposes of this computation, any employee who works 40 hours or more weekly shall be considered a full-time employee and that the average weekly hours of employees who work less than 40 hours weekly shall be added and such sum shall be divided by 40 to produce full-time position equivalents. In addition to the employee tax method, a flat fee of $15.00 shall be applied uniformly to persons, businesses and practitioners whose location for occupation tax purposes is within the city limits. The occupation tax and flat fee shall be computed in accordance with the schedule on file in the clerk's office.
(1)
The city shall not require the payment of more than one occupation tax for each location of a business or practitioner.
(2)
A business or practitioner which is subject to an occupation tax by another local government and claiming an exemption from or limitation to the occupation tax imposed by this section shall submit documentation as to current payment of the occupation tax to the other local government and the basis of such tax.
a.
If a business or practitioner with no location or office in the state provides to the city proof of payment of a local business or occupation tax in another state which purports to tax the business's or practitioner's sales or services in this state, then the business or practitioner shall be exempt from this occupation tax.
b.
A business or practitioner with no location or office in this state shall only be required to pay occupation tax to the local government in this state where the largest dollar volume of business is done or service is performed by such business or practitioner. This limitation shall only apply when the business or practitioner has provided to the city satisfactory proof of the applicability of this subsection.
c.
A business or practitioner which has locations in this state subject to occupation tax by more than one local government in the state shall only be subject to occupation tax by the city for the number of employees who are employed within the corporate limits of the city. This limitation shall only apply when the business or practitioner has provided to the city satisfactory proof of current payment of the occupation tax of the other local governments.
d.
If an employee works for the same business or practitioner in more than one municipal corporation or county and the business or practitioner submits proof of this, the employee shall be counted as an employee in the city only if the city is the jurisdiction where such employee works for the longest period of time within the calendar year.
(3)
If a business or practitioner commences business in the city on or after April in any year, the occupation tax and flat fee for the remaining portion of the year shall be reduced 25 percent for each successive three-month period thereafter, with a minimum proration of 25 percent of the annual fee for all certificates issued on or after October 1 in any year. The administrative fee shall not be reduced.
(4)
If a business or practitioner does not know how many employees which are the basis of this occupation tax will be employed by the business or practitioner during the current calendar year, then the business or practitioner shall file a return estimating the number of employees which are the basis of this occupation tax. If such estimate is not accurate, then no later than December 31 the business or practitioner shall file an amended return indicating the actual number of employees during the previous calendar year. Any overpayment of the occupation tax may be credited to the business or practitioner's account for future tax liability, offset against other amounts due and owing to the city for any reason or paid to the business or practitioner at the discretion of the clerk.
(5)
Real estate brokers shall be subject to occupation tax pursuant to this chapter only if they maintain a principal or branch office in the city.
(6)
Depository institutions located within the city limits shall pay a business license tax at a rate not to exceed 0.25 percent of gross receipts as defined and allocated according to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(7)
Newly established businesses, occupations or practitioners within the corporate limits may not use or cause to be transferred an existing occupational tax certificate. Such newly established businesses, occupations or practitioners shall be liable for payment of an occupational tax subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 99-04B, § 5-104, 10-6-1998)
Sec. 50-5. - Occupation tax certificate.
Every business, practitioner and location subject to payment of the occupation tax levied by this chapter shall display a current occupation tax certificate in a conspicuous place at the location for which such certificate was issued. If the taxpayer does not have a permanent location within the city, the occupation tax certificate shall be shown to any designated city official upon request.
(Ord. No. 99-04B, § 5-105, 10-6-1998)
Sec. 50-6. - Practitioners of professions and occupations.
Practitioners of professions and occupations as defined in this chapter shall pay the occupation tax as set forth in section 50-4 or shall pay an occupation tax of $250.00 per practitioner. On the tax return for 1995 or such later time as the practitioner first commences business in the city, the practitioner shall elect a method of taxation. Such election shall be changed for subsequent calendar years only by a written request filed by the practitioner on or before November 1 prior to the year in which the election is to be changed.
(Ord. No. 99-04B, § 5-106, 10-6-1998)
Sec. 50-7. - Exemptions.
(a)
No occupation tax shall be levied on the following:
(1)
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, or instrumentality of the United States, the state, or a municipality or county of the state;
(2)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission;
(3)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.;
(4)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including any agribusiness;
(5)
Non-profit, agricultural product cooperative marketing associations pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105;
(6)
Motor common carriers pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15;
(7)
Persons purchasing guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed, or cottonseed meal or hulls in carload lots for distribution among the purchasers for use and not sale pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355;
(8)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356 for persons selling or introducing into the city agricultural products or livestock, including animal products, raised in this state when the sale and introduction are made by the producer of the product and the sale is made within 90 days of the introduction of the product into the city;
(9)
Depository institutions pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93;
(10)
Any non-profit organization or facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(b)
The exemptions and limitations contained in this section shall not be construed to repeal or otherwise affect in any way any franchise fees, business taxes or other fees or taxes otherwise allowed by law.
(Ord. No. 99-04B, § 5-107, 10-6-1998)
Sec. 50-8. - Evidence of state registration when required.
Each person who is licensed under O.C.G.A. § 43-1-1 et seq. by the examining boards of the secretary of state's office shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before any city occupation tax certificate or regulatory fee certificate may be issued.
(Ord. No. 99-04B, § 5-108, 10-6-1998)
Sec. 50-9. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
(a)
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of an occupation tax certificate or a regulatory fee certificate, show evidence of such qualification.
(b)
Any business required to submit an annual application for continuance of the business shall do so before the registration is issued.
(Ord. No. 99-04B, § 5-109, 10-6-1998)
Sec. 50-10. - Filing returns; other information required or requested.
(a)
On or before November 1 of each year, an individual, business or practitioner subject to this occupation tax shall file with the city clerk on a form approved by and available from the city a signed return attesting to the number of employees of such business or practitioner during the calendar year.
(b)
Persons, businesses and practitioners doing business in the city shall submit to the clerk or make available within 30 days such information as may be required or requested by the city to determine the applicability and amount of the occupation tax or regulatory fee or to facilitate levying or collection of the occupation tax and/or regulatory fees.
(c)
The business registration of each business operated in the city's jurisdiction shall identify the line of business that the business conducts. No business shall conduct any line of business without first having that line of business registered with the city and that line of business being noted by the city on the business registration form which is to be displayed by the business owner.
(Ord. No. 99-04B, § 5-110, 10-6-1998)
Sec. 50-11. - Confidentiality.
Information provided by a business or practitioner to the city for the purpose of determining the applicability and amount of the occupation tax or levying or collecting the occupation tax is confidential and exempt from disclosure under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-15. Such information may be provided to the governing authority of another local government for occupation tax purposes or pursuant to court order or for the purpose of collecting occupation tax or prosecution for failure or refusal to pay occupation tax.
(Ord. No. 99-04B, § 5-111, 10-6-1998)
Sec. 50-12. - Date due; penalty.
(a)
Any occupation tax or regulatory fee due pursuant to this chapter shall be due and payable annually on January 1. In the event that any person commences business or initially engages in a regulated activity in the city after January 1 in any year, the tax and/or fee shall be due and payable on the date of the commencement of the business or regulated activity.
(b)
Any person, business or practitioner subject to any occupation tax or regulatory fee imposed by this chapter which is unpaid for 90 days after the date on which payment was required is subject to a penalty of ten percent of the tax, and an additional 1.5 percent will be imposed for each additional month of delinquency thereof.
(Ord. No. 99-04B, § 5-112, 10-6-1998)
Sec. 50-13. - Enforcement; violations.
(a)
It is the duty of the clerk to administer and enforce the provisions of this article, to perform all functions necessary to administer and enforce this article and to summon violators of this article to appear before the municipal court. The clerk may issue executions against persons, businesses and practitioners for taxes and fees which are due and owing.
(b)
The clerk shall issue executions against persons, businesses and practitioners for taxes and fees which are due and owing. Such executions shall bear interest at the rate authorized by O.C.G.A. § 48-2-40 or, if such statute should be repealed, one percent per month. The lien shall cover the property of the individual, business or practitioner liable for payment of the delinquent occupation tax or regulatory fee and become fixed as of the date and time the occupation tax or regulatory fee become delinquent. The execution shall be levied by clerk upon property of the delinquent tax or fee payer located in the city and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of the execution, including penalty, interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be as provided by the Code, Charter and the laws of the state. The defendants at execution shall have the rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality of the tax or otherwise as provided by the Charter and the laws of the state in regard to tax executions.
(c)
When a nulla bona entry has been entered upon an execution, the person against whom the entry is made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charge whatever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If, at any time after the nulla bona entry has been made, the person against whom the execution issues pays the tax in full, together with all interest and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due to such person as if such person had never defaulted in the payment of the tax.
(d)
Persons, businesses and practitioners who fail or refuse to pay any occupation tax or regulatory fee charged pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to a $25.00 fine with each day of non-compliance considered as a separate offense.
(e)
Persons, businesses and practitioners who fail or refuse to make a timely or truthful tax return or make available truthful and accurate information the city requests or requires for determining applicability or amount of occupation tax or regulatory fee, or for levying or collecting such occupation tax or regulatory fee shall be subject to either a fine as prescribed herein, and/or the suspension of the right to conduct business.
(f)
Persons, businesses or practitioners subject to the occupation tax or regulatory fees imposed by this chapter shall be required to file for and pay such tax or fee. For failure to do so, any officers or agents soliciting for or obtaining such business shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons, businesses or practitioners who fail to obtain make a return for or pay the applicable occupation tax or regulatory fee.
(g)
Persons, businesses or practitioners subject to the occupation tax or regulatory fees imposed by this chapter who fail to comply with this chapter shall be subject to the penalties provided herein. In the case of those practitioners where the city cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the city in the case of a delinquent occupational tax, as prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 99-04B, § 5-113, 10-6-1998)
Secs. 50-14—50-40. - Reserved.
