Chapter 54 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; fire prevention and protection, ch. 38; health and sanitation, ch. 46; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 50; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 66; traffic and vehicles, ch. 70.
State Law reference— State parks, O.C.G.A. § 12-3-1 et seq.; authority of municipality to construct and operate parks, swimming pools, golf courses, recreation grounds and buildings used for sports, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; establishment of recreation systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.; recreation boards, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-5; Georgia state games commission, O.C.G.A. § 50-12-40 et seq.; power to provide parks, recreation areas, programs and facilities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(5).

Sec. 54-1. - Development of municipal recreation programs.
The authority to develop programs of recreational activities and services designed to meet the leisure time interest and needs of all municipal citizens is hereby granted to and vested in the park and recreation board, which board shall have the power to maintain and equip parks, playgrounds, recreation centers, and the buildings associated therewith, and to develop, maintain, and operate all types of recreation facilities.
(Code 1987, § 15-1)
Sec. 54-2. - Use of grounds and facilities in general.
Each person using the public parks and grounds shall clean up all debris, extinguish all fires when such fires are permitted, and leave the premises in good order and the facilities in a neat and sanitary condition.
(Code 1987, § 15-2)
Sec. 54-3. - Prohibited acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person using public parks, grounds, or facilities to either perform or permit to be performed any of the following acts:
(1)
Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, damage, tamper with, or displace or remove, any buildings; bridges; tables; benches; fireplaces; railings; paving or paving material; waterlines or other public utilities or parts or appurtenances thereof; signs, notices, or placards, whether temporary or permanent; monuments; stakes, posts, or other boundary markers; or other structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances whatsoever, either real or personal.
(2)
Throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay, or other body of water in or adjacent to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer, or drain flowing into such waters, any substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or may result in the pollution of such waters.
(3)
Damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any tree or plant or any part thereof.
(4)
Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, chase, tease, shoot, or throw missiles at any animal, reptile, or bird; or remove or have in one's possession the young of any wild animal, or the eggs, nest, or young of any wild bird.
(5)
Bring in or dump, deposit, or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, refuse, or other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in or contiguous to any park, or left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be placed in the proper receptacles where such receptacles are provided; and where receptacles are not so provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for the presence of same, and properly disposed of elsewhere.
(6)
Disturb the peace, or use any profane or obscene language.
(7)
Endanger the safety of any person by any conduct or act.
(8)
Commit any assault or battery, or engage in fighting.
(9)
Carry, possess, or drink any alcoholic beverage in the park.
(10)
Violate any rule for the use of the park, made or approved by the park and recreation board or by the council.
(11)
Prevent any person from using any park, or any of its facilities, or interfere with such use in compliance with this chapter and with the rules applicable to such use.
(12)
Swim, bathe, or wade in any waters or waterways in or adjacent to any park, except in such waters and at such places as are provided therefor, and in compliance with such regulations as are herein set forth or may be hereafter adopted.
(13)
Dress or undress on any beach, or in any vehicle, toilet, or other place, except in such bathing houses or structures as may be provided for that purpose.
(Code 1987, § 15-3)
Sec. 54-4. - Hours of operation.
(a)
The public parks shall be open daily to the public during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. It shall be unlawful for any person other than city personnel conducting city business therein to occupy or be present in such parks during any other hours.
(b)
Any section or part of a park, or an entire park, may be declared closed to the public by the superintendent of public works at any time for any interval of time, either temporarily or at regular or stated intervals.
(Code 1987, § 15-4)
Sec. 54-5. - Group activity.
When members of any group, association, or organization desire to use any park facilities for a particular purpose, such as picnics, parties, or theatrical or other entertainment performances, such members will send a representative of such group, association, or organization to first obtain approval from the director of recreation.
(Code 1987, § 15-5)
Sec. 54-6. - Games.
It shall be unlawful for any person to take part in or abet the playing of any game involving thrown or otherwise propelled objects such as balls, stones, arrows, javelins, or model airplanes except in areas set apart for such forms of recreation. The playing of rough or potentially dangerous games such as football, baseball, and soccer is prohibited except on the fields, courts, or areas provided therefor.
(Code 1987, § 15-6)
Sec. 54-7. - Camping.
It shall be unlawful for any person to set up tents, shacks, or any other temporary shelter for the purpose of overnight camping, or for any person to leave in a park after closing hours any movable structure or special vehicle to be used, or that could be used, for such purpose, such as a house trailer, camp trailer, camp wagon, or the like.
(Code 1987, § 15-7)
Sec. 54-8. - Fires.
It shall be unlawful for any person to build or attempt to build a fire except in such areas and under such regulations as may be designated by the superintendent of public works. No person shall drop, throw, or otherwise scatter lighted matches, burning cigarettes, or cigars, tobacco paper, or other inflammable material within any park area or on any highway, road, or street abutting or contiguous thereto.
(Code 1987, § 15-8)
Sec. 54-9. - Animals.
It shall be unlawful to bring any dangerous animal into any park. It shall be unlawful to permit any dog to be in any park unless such dog is on a leash not more than five feet long.
(Code 1987, § 15-9)
Sec. 54-10. - Motor vehicles.
It shall be unlawful to drive or park any motor vehicle except on a street, driveway, or parking lot in any park; or to park, or leave any such vehicle in any place other than one established for public parking.
(Code 1987, § 15-10)
Sec. 54-11. - Sales.
It shall be unlawful for any person to vend, sell, peddle, or offer for sale any commodity or article within any park, except on special occasions as approved by the council.
(Code 1987, § 15-11)
Sec. 54-12. - Alcoholic beverages.
It shall be unlawful for any person within any park to have in such person's possession, custody, or control any alcoholic beverage of any kind whatsoever.
(Code 1987, § 15-12)
Sec. 54-13. - Signs.
It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, glue, tack, or otherwise post any sign, placard, advertisement, or inscription whatever, or for any person to erect or cause to be erected any sign whatever on any public land or highway or road adjacent to a park, except that these provisions shall not apply to any properly authorized government official in pursuit of any official duty.
(Code 1987, § 15-13)
