Chapter 30 - COURTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Municipal court, § 5.10 et seq.
Cross reference— Offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 50; traffic and vehicles, ch. 70.
State Law reference— Powers of presiding officer in court of a municipal corporation to bind over or commit criminal offenders to jail, O.C.G.A. § 17-7-22; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.; agreements between private entities and municipal court judges for probation services, O.C.G.A. § 42-8-102; establishment of municipal courts authorized and jurisdiction thereof, Ga. Const. art. VI, § I, ¶ I.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 30-1—30-29. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 30-30. - Municipal court proceedings date and time.
(a)
The Municipal Court of the City of Blackshear shall convene on the Friday immediately following the third Thursday of every month beginning at 9:00 a.m. This change shall take effect beginning with the first court date in January 2019, and until such time, the regular court date shall remain in effect. There shall be no regular court date in the month of December during any year unless specially convened by the judge.
(b)
The chief judge of municipal court, in consultation with the chief of police, shall have the authority to convene the municipal court for special sessions as necessary to accommodate case scheduling and case load requirements.
(Ord. No. 2014-01, §§ 1, 2, 4-8-14; Ord. No. 2018-02, § 1, 7-10-18)
Sec. 30-31. - Bailiff.
(a)
The bailiff of the municipal court shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of city council.
(b)
The duties of the bailiff shall consist generally of seeing that the courtroom is in proper condition for sessions of court, of assisting in keeping order while court is in session, and of doing such other acts of assistance as may be required of such bailiff by the judge of the court and the city clerk.
(Code 1987, § 8-4)
Sec. 30-32. - Record of cases.
A record of all cases heard in the municipal court for violation of this Code or other municipal ordinances shall be kept in a suitable bound volume by the city clerk. Such records shall contain the name of the defendant, the nature of the offense charged, the final disposition of the case, and the date of final disposition.
(Code 1987, § 8-5)
Sec. 30-33. - Additional methods for giving, forfeiture and collection of appearance bonds.
(a)
When any person is charged with an offense against the laws or ordinances of the City of Blackshear or other cases subject to trial in the city municipal court, or when any person is arrested for any such offense, such person shall:
(1)
Give bond for his or her appearance at any session of the city municipal court in the same manner as bonds are given for appearance in the state superior courts; or
(2)
Give bond in any manner now provided by the Charter, Code, ordinances, resolutions of the city, and laws of the state applicable to the city municipal court.
(b)
If any person so charged shall fail to appear at the time appointed in said bond, then and in such event said bond or recognizance shall be forfeited and the amount of same collected from the principal and his sureties thereon as set forth herein.
(c)
A bond forfeiture proceeding shall be commenced immediately upon the failure of appearance of a principal of any bond or recognizance given for the appearance of that person.
(d)
Execution (forfeiture) hearing:
(1)
The judge of the municipal court shall, upon the failure of the principal to appear, set an execution hearing for a date within 30 days after said failure to appear or as soon thereafter as the case may be heard. Notice of the hearing shall be mailed by first class mail by the clerk of the court to the principal and to each surety at the addresses given on the bond.
(2)
If at the hearing it is determined that the bond should be forfeited, the judge shall so order and an execution on the order shall immediately be issued.
(e)
Nonappearance; when no judgment shall be rendered decreeing forfeiture:
(1)
No judgment shall be rendered decreeing the forfeiture of any appearance bond if it is shown to the satisfaction of the court by the sworn statement of a reputable physician that the principal in the bond was prevented from attending by some physical disability.
(2)
No judgment shall be rendered decreeing the forfeiture of any appearance bond if it is shown to the satisfaction of the court that the principal on the bond was prevented from attending because he was detained in a penal institution in another jurisdiction. A sworn affidavit of the warden or other responsible officer of the penal institution in which the principal has been detained shall be considered adequate proof of the principal's detention.
(3)
If the prosecution does not try the charges against a defendant within a period of three years after the date of posting bond, no judgment rendered after such period decreeing the forfeiture of the appearance bond may be enforced against the surety of the bond. However, this provision shall not apply where the prosecution's failure to try the charges is due to the fault of the defendant.
(f)
(1)
On the entering of such judgment, the city clerk shall issue an execution against the principal and the surety or sureties on conformity with such judgment, and in substantially the form and manner that executions are issued by the city for taxes. The execution shall be placed in the hands of the chief of police who shall proceed to collect the same as tax executions are enforced and collected.
(2)
Effect of article on forfeitures. This article shall not affect the procedures now in force for the forfeiture of any sum of money that is deposited by any person for his appearance in the municipal's court.
(g)
This section shall not alter or amend the existing means and methods for the giving of appearance bonds in said court by posting a cash bond in United States coin and currency or for the forfeiture and collection of the same. The purpose of this section is to provide additional means and methods for giving an appearance bond and for forfeiture and collection of the same.
(Ord. No. 2008-04, 10-14-08)
Sec. 30-34. - Bond; effective period.
Bond to remain in effect until disposition of case completed or until released by court. Once a bond signed by a person as surety has been posted and given, the bond and surety shall remain in effect until the disposition of the case for which it was posted has been completed, including the payment of any fines imposed by the municipal court, or until the municipal court otherwise releases said bond.
(Ord. No. 2008-04, 10-14-08)
Sec. 30-35. - Municipal court surcharge.
(a)
The Blackshear Police Department utilizes electronic data processing and reporting and the police department staff must maintain the hardware and software in order to remain current with periodic changes. The Council of the City of Blackshear desires to impose a surcharge on local ordinance and state law violations prosecuted in the Municipal Court of the City of Blackshear to fund any necessary computer-related equipment used when processing said violations.
(b)
The City of Blackshear hereby establishes a $25.00 surcharge that shall be imposed upon each violation of any ordinance of the city or any law of the State of Georgia prosecuted in the Municipal Court of the City of Blackshear. However, this surcharge shall not be imposed upon any such violation if state law would prohibit the surcharge. This surcharge shall be in addition to any other surcharges, fees, or fines imposed because of such violation.
(Ord. No. 2019-03, § 1, 4-9-19)
Secs. 30-36—30-60. - Reserved.
