Chapter 10 - LAW ENFORCEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to provide police protection, Georgia Constitution art. IX § II.

Sec. 10-1. - Composition of police department.
The police department shall be composed of the chief of police and police officers or employees as may be necessary. The supervision and control of the department is vested in the chief of police.
(Ord. No. 97-06-01, § 1, 6-24-1997)
Sec. 10-2. - Chief of police.
The chief of police or police department personnel under the chief's direction shall:
(1)
Maintain the peace and good order and tranquility of the city by arrest and prosecution for the violation of any city ordinance or state or federal law.
(2)
Enforce all regulations of the police department and administrative directives of the mayor.
(3)
Enforce all laws and regulations pertaining to traffic.
(4)
Protect the rights of persons and property.
(5)
Guard the public health.
(6)
Provide police assistance at fires in the city and protect the city firefighters at the scene of a fire under the supervision of the fire chief or other proper officer of the fire department.
(7)
Issue and serve summons for violations of any laws or ordinances and serve all processes, executions, attachments and the like of the chief of police, city clerk, the municipal court, and the mayor and city council.
(8)
Maintain records of the name, date of arrest, offense, and name of the arresting officer or other arresting persons of each person arrested and taken into custody.
(9)
Maintain records of the name, assignments, resident, telephone number, date of appointment, and general conduct record of each police officer.
(Ord. No. 97-06-01, § 2, 6-24-1997)
Sec. 10-3. - Oath of office.
Before any police officers shall assume the duties of office, each shall take substantially the following oath:
"I do solemnly swear or affirm that I will faithfully perform all duties of my office, and I will faithfully observe all the rules, orders and regulations of the department. I further swear or affirm that I will obey all laws of the City of Walthourville, State of Georgia, and any other law or laws of the United States of America."
This oath shall be administered by the chief of police or deputy chief or the mayor.
(Ord. No. 97-06-01, § 3, 6-24-1997)
Sec. 10-4. - Abuse of position.
(a)
No police officer shall use his official position or official identification card or badge for:
(1)
Personal or financial gain;
(2)
Obtaining privileges not otherwise available to the officer, except in the performance of duty;
(3)
Avoiding consequences of illegal acts.
(b)
Police officers may not lend their identification cards or badges to another person or permit them to be photographed or reproduced without approval of the chief of police.
(Ord. No. 97-06-01, § 4, 6-24-1997)
Sec. 10-5. - Department reports.
Police officers shall submit all necessary reports on time and in accordance with established departmental procedures. Reports of any officers shall be truthful and complete and no officer shall knowingly enter or cause to be entered any inaccurate, false, misleading, or improper information.
(Ord. No. 97-06-01, § 5, 6-24-1997)
Sec. 10-6. - Endorsements or referrals.
Police officers shall not recommend or suggest in any manner, except in the transaction of personal business, the employment or procurement of a particular product, professional service or commercial service such as an attorney, ambulance, towing service, bondsmen, mortician, or the like. In the case of ambulance or towing service, when such service is necessary and the person needing service is unable or unwilling to procure it or request assistance, the officer shall proceed in accordance with established departmental procedures.
(Ord. No. 97-06-01, § 6, 6-24-1997)
