PART I - CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS
Subpart A - CHARTER[1]
FULL TITLE
An Act to incorporate the City of Walthourville in the County of Liberty; to create a Charter for said city; to prescribe the corporate limits of said city; to provide for the government of said city: to enumerate the corporate powers of the city; to provide for ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations; to provide for the officials of said city and their selection, oath, compensation, powers, duties and terms of office; to provide for filling vacancies; to provide for the fiscal administration of the city government; to provide for the levy and collection of taxes; to provide for elections; to provide for the registration of voters; to provide for the method of conducting elections; to provide for the establishment of a recorder's court; to provide for the appointment of the recorder; to provide for the qualifications and compensation of the recorder; to provide for the jurisdiction of the recorder's court; to provide for appeals from the recorder's court; to provide for the payment of court costs; to provide for rules for the recorder's court; to provide for other matters relative to the foregoing; to provide for severability; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia:
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Charter of the city, as enacted by 1974 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 1056), page 2704. Amendments to the Charter are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Any provisions regarding the title, publication date, approval date, notice to introduce legislation, and jurat have been omitted. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION, CORPORATE LIMITS AND CORPORATE POWERS

Sec. 1-1. - Incorporation.
This Act shall constitute the Charter of the City of Walthourville, Georgia. The City of Walthourville, Georgia, in the County of Liberty, and the inhabitants thereof, shall be a body politic and corporate under the name and style of the "City of Walthourville," and by that name shall have perpetual succession, may contract and be contracted with, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all the courts of law and equity, and in all actions whatsoever, and may have and use a common seal and change it at pleasure.
Sec. 1-2. - Corporate limits.
The corporate limits of the City of Walthourville shall include all the area embraced within 4,800 feet in every direction from the center of the crossing of the Hinesville-Walthourville Road (Old Hinesville-Ludowici Road) and the Seaboard Coast Line Railroad, except that where said line intersects or touches the boundary line of Long County, the corporate limits of Walthourville shall follow the Long County line.
Sec. 1-3. - Corporate powers.
The corporate powers of the city, to be exercised by the mayor and council, shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
(1)
To assess and collect ad valorem tax upon all property, both real and personal, within the limits of said city, for the purpose of providing revenue for the ordinary expenses of the municipal government; to levy and collect an excise tax upon the business of selling malt beverages; to levy and collect a specific or occupation tax on all businesses, occupations, professions, callings, or trades exercised within the city as may be deemed just and proper, and by ordinance to classify said businesses; to fix license fees on all privileges, occupations, trades, and professions within the police powers of the city.
(2)
To provide by ordinance for the return or assessment, or both, of all real or personal property for taxation, at the value provided for by law, and no more; to penalize defaulters, to prescribe the time or times at which same shall be due, and have the power to enforce the same by an execution issued by the clerk, directed to the chief of police, and bearing teste in the name of the mayor, and sales thereunder shall be had as prescribed in Chapter 92-44 of the Code of Georgia of 1933, as now or hereafter amended.
Editor's note— The provisions of chapter 92-44 of the Code of Georgia of 1933 can now be found at O.C.G.A., § 48-5-359.
(3)
To provide by ordinance for the registration of all businesses and occupations that are subject to a specific tax or license fee, and the time when same shall be due; to provide penalties for engaging in same without first registering and paying the tax or fee; to enforce the collection of same by execution, as provided in the previous subsection.
(4)
To prohibit a nuisance in the city and to provide for its abatement, whether on public or private property. The recorder of the city shall have jurisdiction of all nuisance abatement proceedings in the city. The city may provide by ordinance for any building, structure, or condition maintained in violation of any valid law of this State or any valid ordinance of the city, to be adjudged a nuisance and for its abatement at the owner's expense upon his failure or refusal to abate the same within ten days after written notice from the city to do so and after an opportunity to be heard on same.
(5)
To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(6)
To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge or restrict same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law relating to both fire prevention and detection and to fire fighting.
(7)
To regulate and control all hotels and public houses within the city.
(8)
To regulate and license or prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same for violation of any ordinance or lawful order; to provide for their disposition by sale, gift, or humane destruction, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance.
(9)
To require the owners of lots to drain same; to fill up excavations or depressions; to drain cellars and cisterns and fill up same if necessary; and upon failure to do so after reasonable notice, to have same done at owner's expense, and to enforce the collection of the amount so expended by an execution against said property on which said work was done.
(10)
To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in amounts prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicles, or any other reasonable regulations as may be prescribed by ordinance.
(11)
To regulate junk dealers; pawn shops; the manufacture, sale or transportation of intoxicating liquors; the sale and use of firearms; the transportation, storage and use of combustible, explosive and inflammable materials; the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property.
(12)
To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of and light streets, roads, alleys and walkways within the corporate limits of the city, at the expense of the owners of the adjoining property, enforcing the payment of said cost by execution against the said adjoining property, and against the owners of the same, which shall be issued and levied as executions for taxes, and sales thereunder and all the incidents of purchase and redemption shall be the same as if said sale was had for taxes.
(13)
To construct or extend sewers in any of the streets or alleys of said city or any territory thereof; to assess such part of the costs of the same on the real estate abutting on the street or alley on which may be extended, according to frontage, as may be just and reasonable, and to enforce the payment of the same by execution against the abutting real estate and the owners thereof in the same manner as an execution for taxes.
(14)
To grant franchises and rights-of-way through the streets and roads, and over the bridges and viaducts, for the use of public utilities.
(15)
To establish minimum standards for and to regulate building construction and repair, electrical wiring and equipment, gas installation and equipment, plumbing, and housing for the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(16)
To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads within the corporate limits of the city.
(17)
To regulate the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air and to prevent the pollution of natural streams which flow within the corporate limits of the city.
(18)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, conservation, athletic, curative, correctional, detentional, penal, and medical institutions, agencies and facilities; and any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate boundaries of the city; and to regulate the use thereof; and for such purposes property may be acquired by condemnation under Part II of Title 36 of the Code of Georgia of 1933, as now or hereafter amended, or other applicable public acts.
(19)
To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse and to provide power and authority to take all necessary and proper means for keeping the city limits free from garbage, trash and filth. Charges or fees may be imposed to cover the costs of such services, which if unpaid, shall constitute a debt which shall be subject to a lien against any property of persons served, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner, and under the same remedies, as a lien for city property taxes.
(20)
To provide for the prevention and punishment of vice, obscenity, immorality, disorderly conduct, riots, and public disturbances.
(21)
To acquire, construct, equip, maintain, operate, distribute, sell and dispose of public utilities, including but not limited to a waterworks system, sewerage system, a natural gas system, an electrical power system, and a community antenna television system, both inside and outside the corporate limits, subject to Chapter 91-9 of the Code of Georgia. For water, gas and electricity furnished, and for all sewerage and sanitary service rendered, said city may prescribed the charges, rates, fares, fees, regulations and standards and conditions of service to be provided, and shall have a lien against any property of the persons served; said lien to be enforceable in the same manner and with the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes. The city may provide by ordinance for the punishment of those who illegally use said systems. The city may issue bonds for purposes enumerated in this Section.
(22)
To acquire, by purchase or otherwise, own and equip ice plants and cold storage plants, in connection with the waterworks system of said city or otherwise, and to do and perform all acts in connection with ownership and operation and conduct of same, ordinarily incident to the operation and conduct of the same, and to issue bonds of said city, for the purposes of acquiring, owning and equipping or operating said plants.
(23)
To designate a depository or depositories for all city funds, and to require indemnity bond from such depository or depositories in the sum fixed by the mayor and council.
(24)
To appropriate and borrow money, to provide for payment of the debts of the city, and to authorize the expenditure of money for any municipal purpose, or for matters of national or state interest, and to issue general obligation bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this Charter or the general laws of the State. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issues by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken. Whenever the city shall desire to create a bonded debt for the purpose of carrying into effect any of the powers and provisions of this Act, it shall have the right and authority to do so when authorized by a majority of the qualified voters of the city voting in an election.
(25)
To acquire, dispose of, lease and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal or mixed property, inside or outside the city.
(26)
To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services but not limited to those stated in (21) above, not to exceed periods of twenty-five years. The mayor and council may prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with laws of the State of Georgia.
(27)
To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements.
(28)
To levy taxes and to make appropriations for the purpose of advertising said city and its advantages and resources so as to bring new capital and commercial and manufacturing and other enterprises into the city, and also to levy taxes and to make payment from the general revenues and funds of the city for public and charitable agencies.
(29)
To contract with any State department or agency or any other political subdivision for joint services or the exchange of services; and to contract with such agencies or subdivisions for the joint use of facilities or equipment; and to contract with any such agency or subdivision to perform any service or execute any project in which the municipality has an interest.
(30)
To authorize the providing for surety bonds for employees, said bonds to be payable to the city, with premiums payable by the city, when necessary or proper.
(31)
To provide that upon the conviction of the violation of any ordinance, rule, regulation or order, the offender may be punished within limitations prescribed by the mayor and council in such ordinance, rule, regulation, or order but not exceeding any limitation prescribed by this Act or State law.
(32)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the recorder's court shall work out such sentences in any public works or on the public streets of the city as provided by ordinance; or the mayor and council may provide for the commitment of city prisoners to any county work camp, or other governmental agency or jail, by agreement with the appropriate county or governmental officers.
(33)
To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental, or likely to be detrimental, to the health, morals, safety, security, peace, convenience, or general welfare of inhabitants of the city.
(34)
To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, morals and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Act as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by municipal governments under the Constitution or general laws of the State of Georgia. No enumeration of particular powers in this Act shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers; but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to cities under the Constitution or applicable laws of the State.
ARTICLE II. - MAYOR AND COUNCIL

Sec. 2-1. - Establishment of city government.
The legislative powers of the city shall be vested in a mayor and five councilmen to be known as the "Mayor and council of the City of Walthourville." The mayor and council shall be elected at large by the qualified voters of the city and shall exercise their powers in such manner as prescribed by this Act, the Constitution, and applicable general laws of the State of Georgia, or if not prescribed, in such manner as prescribed by the duly established ordinances of the city.
Sec. 2-2. - Qualifications for mayor and councilmen.
To be eligible for the office of mayor or councilman, elected or appointed, a person must be at least twenty-one years of age, must meet the requirements of a qualified voter of said city, as prescribed by State law, and, except for the first election held under this Charter, must have been a bona fide resident of the city for at least one year in the case of a councilman and two years in the case of the mayor next preceding the election in which he offers as a candidate. No person shall be eligible as mayor or councilman who shall have been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude unless such person has received a full pardon and has all rights of citizenship restored.
Sec. 2-3. - Mayor and Councilmen; election.
The following individuals are hereby designated as the initial mayor and councilmen of the City of Walthourville:
Mrs. Lyndol Anderson — Mayor
Miss Celia Davis — Councilman, Post 1
Mrs. Carrie Kent — Councilman, Post 2
Mrs. Maxine Gaskin — Councilman, Post 3
Mrs. Faye Booth — Councilman, Post 4
Mrs. Ardith Herbert — Councilman, Post 5
The mayor and councilmen named in this Section shall serve for a term of office beginning on the date on which they take their respective oaths of office on or after the effective date of this Act. Said mayor and councilmen shall hold their respective offices until the 2nd Monday in January 1975, and until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified.
On the first Wednesday in December 1974, and on said date every four years thereafter, an election shall be held for the mayor and five councilmen. The terms of office for mayor and councilmen shall begin on the second Monday in January in the year following their respective election. Except as otherwise provided herein, said terms shall continue for four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
In all elections held by the city for the purpose of selecting new members to the city council, candidates must declare by number which post on the city council they are offering to fill. No candidate's name shall appear on a general election ballot with a political party designation. All elections shall be nonpartisan and no political party or body shall hold or conduct primaries for the purpose of nominating candidates for mayor or councilmen. The candidate receiving a majority of the votes cast for each respective position shall be elected to the city council to fill that particular vacancy on the council.
Editor's note— The first sentence of the third paragraph has been superseded and made obsolete by O.C.G.A. § 21-2-9. Elections to fill municipal offices must be held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November in each odd-numbered year.
Sec. 2-4. - Mayor and council.
(1)
Except as otherwise provided in this Act, all corporate, legislative and other powers of the city are vested in the mayor and council. The mayor and council shall hold regular public meetings at a stated time and place as provided by ordinance. The mayor and council shall meet in special session on call of (a) the mayor, or in his absence, the mayor pro tem, or (b) two councilmen, and notice of which shall be served on the other members personally or left at their respective residences at least twelve hours in advance of the meeting. Alternatively, or in addition thereto, notice of a special session may be given by telephoning the other members. If this method is used, the first order of business in the special session shall be to enter upon the minutes of the meeting an oath, or an affidavit by the mayor, or the mayor pro tem or two councilmen calling the special session, attested to by the city clerk or by another member of the council, any person authorized to administer oaths. Said oath or affidavit must contain a statement that each councilman was either notified personally by telephone by the person making the oath or affidavit, or was not capable of being so notified by reason of lack of knowledge of his whereabouts, or his absence from the State. Any person who is found guilty of false swearing as defined by section 26-2402 of the Code of Georgia, as it now exists or may hereafter be amended, in the above proceeding shall be punished as provided by law.
Editor's note— The provisions of § 26-2402 of the Code of Georgia can now be found at O.C.G.A., § 16-10-71.
(2)
Any action taken in a special session which was called by a person later found guilty of false swearing regarding the telephone notice of any member shall be void, unless ratified unanimously at a regular council meeting held after said person is found guilty. A ratification of action taken in such a special session by the mayor and council prior to a conviction for false swearing shall not be effective. Any liability to the city arising from action by the mayor and council pursuant to a special session in which telephone notice is given, and in which the person calling the meeting is found guilty of false swearing shall result in several liability for the persons so convicted. Such notice of a special meeting shall not be required and shall be considered waived if the mayor and all councilmen are present when the special meeting is called or convened. Only the business stated in the written call or stated as being the purpose in the oath or affidavit required in special sessions convened under the telephone notice provision of this Act may be transacted at a special meeting, except by unanimous consent of all members of the council.
(3)
Three of the five councilmen shall constitute a quorum; ordinances and resolutions shall be adopted by majority vote. The mayor and council may, by ordinance, adopt rules and bylaws to govern the conduct of its business, including procedures and penalties for compelling the attendance of absent members. The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for punishment for contemptuous behavior conducted in their presence.
Sec. 2-5. - Powers and duties of mayor with respect to council.
The mayor shall recommend such measures as he may deem necessary or expedient for the welfare of the city; may call the mayor and council together at any time when deemed necessary by him; shall preside at meetings of the mayor and council; shall have a vote only in the case of a tie vote by councilmen; shall sign ordinances and resolutions on their final passage; may obtain short term loans in the name of the city when authorized by the council to do so; shall sign deeds, bonds and contracts when authorized by the council to do so; and shall perform such other duties imposed by this Act and duly adopted ordinances.
Sec. 2-6. - Mayor pro tem.
The mayor and council on the second Monday in January of each year, and after the newly elected councilmen have taken office following each regular election, shall elect from its membership a mayor pro tem for a term of one year. Upon the mayor and council's failure to elect a mayor pro tem by the fourth Monday in January of each year, the incumbent councilman who received the highest number of votes, when last elected, shall be declared mayor pro tem. The mayor pro tem shall have the authority and duty to perform the duties of the mayor whenever the mayor, for any reason, cannot or will not act.
Sec. 2-7. - Vacancy in office of mayor or councilman.
A vacancy shall exist if the mayor or a councilman resigns, dies, moves his residence from the city, or for any other reason no longer holds his office, except if granted a leave of absence by the mayor and council and such leave of absence is entered on the minutes; or if he is adjudged incompetent or is convicted of malfeasance in office, or of a felony.
The mayor and council shall appoint a qualified citizen of said city to fill any such vacancy in the office of councilman for the remainder of the unexpired term. The person receiving the majority of the votes of said council shall be declared elected, and the mayor shall vote in case of a tie.
At no time shall there be more than one appointed councilman holding office; and if a vacancy occurs on the council with one member so appointed on the council, a special election shall be held within a period of forty-five (45) days after the office becomes vacant pursuant to a call of a special election as provided by this Act; however, if a special election is called pursuant to this Act, the vacancy previously filled by appointment as well as the existing vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired terms in a special election; provided, however, if a regular election for the city shall be held within three (3) months after the second vacancy occurs, the first vacancy previously filled by appointment and the second vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired terms at such regular election.
In the event a vacancy should occur in the office of mayor, a special election shall be called and held in the manner prescribed by the Georgia Municipal Election Code, Title 34A of the Code of Georgia, as it now exists or may hereafter be amended, so long as the vacancy occurs at least three (3) months prior to the regular expiration date of the term. If the vacancy occurs within three (3) months of the expiration date of the term, the mayor pro tem shall serve until the expiration date and shall be authorized during said period to exercise all of the powers of the mayor, hereinbefore or hereinafter provided.
Editor's note— The provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code, Title 34A of the Code of Georgia can now be found at O.C.G.A., § 21-2-540 et seq.
Sec. 2-8. - Compensation and expenses.
The mayor shall receive $150.00 per month, and each councilman shall receive $75.00 per month as compensation for their services as such. Each councilman and the mayor, when authorized by the mayor and council and upon presentation of itemized vouchers, shall receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office. Said compensation and expenses shall be paid from the funds of the city.
Sec. 2-9. - Misfeasance or malfeasance in office.
In case the mayor or any councilman, while in office, shall be guilty of any misfeasance, malfeasance, willful neglect, or abuse of the powers confided in him, he shall be subject to indictment in the Superior Court of Liberty County, and on conviction shall be fined in a sum not exceeding $100.00, and shall be removed from office. The said fine may be collected by execution and shall be paid to the city treasurer for the use of the city.
Sec. 2-10. - Bond of clerk.
The mayor and council shall require the clerk, before entering upon discharge of his duties, to give good and sufficient bond in the amount to be decided by the mayor and council, said bond payable to the city, for the faithful performance of his duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriations or unlawful expenditures. Said surety bond shall be obtained from a surety company licensed to do business in the State of Georgia and approved by the mayor and council, and the premium thereon shall be paid by the city. The mayor and council may require such bonds from any other officers and employees thereof.
Sec. 2-11. - City legislation.
Any action of the mayor and council having a regulatory or penal effect or required to be done by ordinance under this Act, shall be done only by ordinance. Each ordinance shall be in written form before being introduced. The affirmative vote of a majority of those members of the council present and voting shall be required to pass any resolution or ordinance. After adoption of ordinances, the city clerk shall number ordinances consecutively, in the order of their final adoption, and shall copy them into a permanent record book used solely for this purpose; and the city clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of numbers and a separate record book. The original copies of all ordinances, resolutions, and motions shall be filed and preserved by the city clerk.
Sec. 2-12. - Readings.
No ordinance, except in the case of an emergency which shall be stated in the ordinance, shall be approved until it shall have been read at two consecutive meetings of the mayor and council not less than seven days apart; provided that this requirement may be waived by two-thirds of those voting upon the question of waiver.
Sec. 2-13. - Codification of ordinances.
The mayor and council may adopt a code of ordinances and may amend and repeal the same, or any part thereof.
ARTICLE III. - CITY ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 3-1. - Organization.
The mayor and council, by ordinance, may establish, abolish, merge or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments, commissions, boards, and agencies of the city, may provide that the same person shall fill a number of offices and positions of employment, and may transfer or change the functions and duties of offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city.
Sec. 3-2. - Duties of mayor and council.
The mayor shall have such powers and duties as may be provided by ordinance not inconsistent with this Act. The mayor and council shall appoint a city attorney and members of boards and commissions and shall determine their duties and compensation. The city attorney shall be appointed for an indefinite term but may be removed by a majority vote of the mayor and council.
Sec. 3-3. - Administrative duties of mayor.
The mayor shall be the executive head of the city government, responsible for the efficient and orderly administration of the city's affairs. He shall be responsible for the enforcement of laws, rules and regulations, ordinances and franchises in the city, and the city attorney shall take such legal actions as the mayor may direct for such purposes. He shall have authority to appoint, promote, demote, transfer, suspend and remove all officers and employees and to direct and control their work, except as otherwise provided in the Act. He shall submit to the council annual budgets, reports, and such other information as he may deem necessary or the council may require. He shall have authority to make allotments of funds within the limits of appropriations and no expenditure shall be made without his approval. If no other employee is designated as purchasing agent, he shall act as purchasing agent for the city. He may conduct inquiries and investigations into the conduct of the city's affairs and shall have such other powers and duties as may be provided by ordinances not inconsistent with this Act.
Sec. 3-4. - Political activity prohibited.
No officer or employee of the city, other than the mayor and councilmen, shall continue in the employment of the city after becoming a candidate for nomination or election to any city office.
Sec. 3-5. - City planning commission.
The mayor and council may create and establish a planning commission pursuant to the provisions of general law as they now exist or as they may hereafter be amended.
ARTICLE IV. - FISCAL ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 4-1. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on the first day of July and shall end on the thirtieth day of June of each year, but a different fiscal year may be fixed by ordinance for the entire city government or for any utility. Said fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for fiscal accounting and reporting of every office, department, agency and activity of the city government, unless otherwise prohibited by law.
Sec. 4-2. - Mayor to submit annual budget.
Not later than thirty (30) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor shall submit to the council a proposed operating budget for the next fiscal year, showing separately for the general funds, each utility, and each other fund the following: (1) the revenue and expenditure during the preceding fiscal year; (2) appropriations and estimated revenue and recommended expenditures for the next fiscal year; (3) a comparative statement of assets, liabilities, reserves and surplus at the end of the preceding fiscal year; and estimated assets, liabilities, reserves and surplus at the end of the current fiscal year; and (4) such other information and data, as may be considered necessary by the mayor and council.
Sec. 4-3. - Action by mayor and council on budget.
Before the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, the mayor and council shall adopt an appropriation ordinance, based on the mayor's budget, with such modifications as the mayor and council considers necessary or desirable. Appropriations need not be in more detail than a lump sum for each department, office, and agency unless otherwise directed by the mayor and council. The mayor and council shall not make any appropriations in excess of estimated revenue, except to provide for an actual emergency threatening the health, property, or lives, safety or general welfare of the inhabitants of the city, provided the mayor and council unanimously agree that there is such an emergency.
If conditions prevent the adoption of an appropriation ordinance before the beginning of the new fiscal year, the appropriations for the last fiscal year shall become the appropriations for the new fiscal year, subject to amendment as provided by ordinance specifically passed for such purpose.
Sec. 4-4. - Additional appropriations.
The council may make appropriations in addition to those contained in the current operating budget, at any regular or special meeting called for such purpose, but any such additional appropriations may be made for any public purpose only from an existing unappropriated surplus.
Sec. 4-5. - Lapse of appropriations.
All unencumbered balances of appropriations in the current operating budget at the end of the fiscal year shall lapse into the unappropriated surplus or reserves of the fund or funds from which such appropriations were made.
Sec. 4-6. - Capital improvements budget.
(1)
Not later than thirty (30) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor shall submit to the council a proposed capital improvements budget with his recommendations as to the means of financing such improvements. The council shall have power to accept, with or without amendments, or reject the proposed program and proposed means of financing. The council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work or improvement, unless the appropriations for such projects are included in the capital improvements budget, except to meet a public emergency threatening the lives, health or property of inhabitants, when passed by an affirmative vote of four (4) councilmen. Such capital improvements budget may be revised and extended each year with regard to the capital improvements still pending or in the process of construction or acquisition.
(2)
Before the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, the council shall adopt an appropriation ordinance based on the proposed capital improvements budget, with such modifications as the council considers necessary or desirable. No appropriation provided for in the capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided, the mayor may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by a majority vote of the mayor and council.
Sec. 4-7. - Sale of city property.
Except as otherwise provided herein, the mayor and council may sell any city property which is obsolete, surplus, or unusable at public or private sale, with or without advertisement and for such consideration as the mayor and council shall deem equitable and just to the city.
Sec. 4-8. - Annual audit.
The mayor and council shall employ a certified public accountant to make an annual audit of all financial books and records of the city. The accountant shall file his report with the mayor and council and shall prepare a summary of the report which shall be furnished or made available to the mayor and every councilman.
Sec. 4-9. - Publication of financial statement.
As soon as practicable after the close of the fiscal year, but within six months after the close thereof, the mayor and council shall cause to be published in a local newspaper, a statement of financial condition which shall contain a statement of revenues and expenditures showing all municipal accounts as of the close of such preceding fiscal year. Such statement of financial condition shall be prepared so as to fairly represent the general financial condition of the city, as of the close of the preceding fiscal year.
Sec. 4-10. - Property taxes.
All property subject to taxation for State or county purposes, assessed as of January 1, in each year, shall be returned for taxes each year on or before April 1. The mayor and council by ordinance may provide for an independent city assessment as provided by law or may elect to use the county assessment for the year in which city taxes are to be levied as provided by Georgia law. If an independent city assessment is made, a board of equalization, consisting of three freeholders of the city appointed by the mayor and council, with compensation fixed by ordinance, shall hear appeals of taxpayers taken within ten days after the city clerk has sent a notice, by ordinary mail, of a new or increased assessment; provided that such notice shall not be required, nor may appeals be taken, in the case of initial city assessments that are the same as county assessments. Except as otherwise provided in this Section, appeals involving city property assessments may be taken as now or as may hereinafter be provided by general law.
Sec. 4-11. - Tax levy.
The mayor and council shall make a tax levy, expressed as a fixed millage rate per $100.00 of assessed valuation. Said city is hereby authorized to levy taxes in excess of the limitations prescribed by Georgia Code Sections 92-4101 to 92-4104 and such limitations shall not be applicable to the City of Walthourville.
Editor's note— The final sentence of this section is no longer valid, as Georgia Code 1933, §§ 92-4101 to 92-4104 were not redesignated by the General Assembly in the 1981 Code.
Sec. 4-12. - Tax bills.
(1)
The city shall send tax bills to taxpayers, showing the assessed valuations, amount of taxes due, tax due dates and information as to delinquency dates and penalties. Failure to send tax bills shall not, however, invalidate any tax. Property taxes shall become delinquent if not paid on or before November 1 of each year which time may be changed by ordinance, at which time a penalty of ten percent (10%) in addition to a fi. fa. charge shall be added and thereafter such taxes shall be subject to interest at the rate of seven percent (7%) per annum, from the due date until paid. On and after the date when such taxes become delinquent, the tax records of the city shall have the force and effect of a judgment of a court of record.
(2)
Said city shall have the right, power and authority to provide by ordinance for the return of all real and personal property for taxation; to provide for the compelling of such return; and to provide penalties for failure to do so after due notice and hearing to be prescribed by the mayor and council, for the current or any previous year, not in any conflict with any limitation prescribed by the laws of Georgia; to prescribe the time or times at which said returns are due; and to provide the time or times when said taxes shall be due and payable.
Sec. 4-13. - Collection of Delinquent Taxes.
The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by fi. fa. issued by the city clerk and executed by the chief of police under the same procedure provided by laws governing execution of such process from the Superior Court, or by the use of any other available legal processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property on which city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment day of January 1 of each year, which shall be superior to all other liens except that it shall have equal dignity with those for State or county taxes.
Sec. 4-14. - Transfer of executions.
The city clerk shall be authorized to transfer and assign any fi. fa. or execution issued for street, sewer, or any other assessment in the same manner, upon the same terms, and to the same effect, and thereby vest the purchaser or transferee, with the same rights as in cases of sales or transfers of tax fi. fas. as now provided by law; and in all sales of property hereafter made under execution in behalf of the city for the collection of street, sewer and other assessments, the owner or owners, as the case may be, are authorized to redeem same within the same time and on compliance with the same terms and payment of the same premium, interest and costs, as in cases of redemption of property where sold under State or county ad valorem tax fi. fa., as the same now exists, or as may from time to time be provided by law.
Sec. 4-15. - Special assessments.
The mayor and council may assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers or other utility mains and appurtenances, against the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent thirty days after their due dates, and shall thereupon be subject, in addition to fi. fa. charges, to a penalty of ten percent (10%) and shall thereafter be subject to interest at the rate of seven percent (7%) per annum from due date until paid. A lien for such amount plus fi. fa. charges, interest and penalties, shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes, and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided in this Article for city property taxes.
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Sections 5-1 through 5-4, 5-6 through 5-7, and 5-9 have been superseded and made obsolete by the provisions of Ga. Const. art. II, §§ I—III and the Georgia Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.

Sec. 5-1. - Time for holding elections.
The regular elections for mayor and councilmen shall be held on the first Wednesday in December 1974, and every four years thereafter.
(1975 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 297), page 3639, § 1)
Sec. 5-2. - Qualification of candidates.
Any person desiring to become a candidate in any regular election shall file written notice of his candidacy with the municipal superintendent not less than fifteen (15) days nor more than forty-five (45) days, as provided by ordinance, prior to the date fixed for the holding of any such election. Written notice of candidacy for any special election shall be filed with said superintendent not less than ten (10) nor more than thirty (30) days, as provided by ordinance, prior to the date fixed for the holding of any such election.
Sec. 5-3. - Qualification of electors.
Any person meeting the qualifications of an elector as prescribed by the Georgia Municipal Election Code, Title 34A of the Code of Georgia, as amended, shall be qualified to register as an elector in any city election held under this Act.
Sec. 5-4. - Applicability of general laws.
Except as otherwise provided by this Act, the election of all officials of the City of Walthourville where provision is made for election by the qualified voters thereof shall be conducted as to special or general elections in conformity, so far as applicable, with the provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code, Title 34A of the Code of Georgia, as it now exists or may hereafter be amended. Whenever any time period established by said Code is altered so as to change or supersede any time period provided herein, it shall be considered that said periods herein shall be correspondingly changed so as to avoid any conflict between this Act and the general law.
Sec. 5-5. - Time of election; polls.
The polls shall be opened from 7 o'clock a.m. to 7 o'clock p.m.
Sec. 5-6. - Place of elections.
The polling place or places for holding elections shall be prescribed by the mayor and council and shall be published in the election notice; provided, however, any change in a polling place shall be effected as provided by Code Section 34A-604 of the Municipal Election Code, as it now exists or may hereafter be amended.
Sec. 5-7. - Voter registration.
In all elections held in the City of Walthourville, whether primary or general elections, the voters, in addition to the qualifications already prescribed, shall be registered as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Sec. 5-8. - Rules.
The mayor and council are hereby authorized to enact by ordinance such additional rules consistent with this Act and general laws as are deemed necessary for the conduct of elections.
Sec. 5-9. - Absentee ballots.
The mayor and council in its discretion is authorized to provide by ordinance for absentee ballots for any city election
Sec. 5-10. - Call for election.
Any call for an election which is required to be made by the laws of this State shall be made by the mayor and council, except as otherwise provided herein.
Sec. 5-11. - Organization.
The persons elected as mayor and councilmen shall attend on the second Monday in January at the council chamber for the purpose of qualifying and taking the oath of office. The mayor and each councilman so elected shall take and subscribe before some officer authorized to administer same the following oath: "I do solemnly swear that I will well and truly perform the duties of mayor (or councilman, as the case may be), by adopting such measures as in my judgment shall be best calculated to promote the general welfare of the inhabitants of the City of Walthourville, and the common interest thereof; so help me God." They shall then immediately enter upon the discharge of the duties of their respective offices.
ARTICLE VI. - RECORDER'S COURT[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— All courts in the state which have jurisdiction over the violation of municipal ordinances shall be deemed to mean "a municipal court and when such terms [recorder's court] refer to a court of a municipal corporation, the term `municipal court' is inserted in lieu thereof" per O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1.

Sec. 6-1. - Creation.
There is hereby established a court to be known as the "Recorder's Court, City of Walthourville," which shall have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against laws and ordinances of said city and to punish for a violation of the same. Such court shall have the power to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by law; to punish witnesses for nonattendance, and to punish also any person who may counsel or advise, aid, encourage, or persuade another whose testimony is desired or material in any proceeding before said court, to go or move beyond the reach of the process of the court; to try all offenses within the territorial limits of the city constituting traffic cases which under the laws of Georgia are placed within the jurisdiction of municipal or police courts to the extent of and in accordance with the provisions of such laws and all laws subsequently enacted amendatory thereof; to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations and to prescribe the condition of forfeiture of the same; and to administer oaths and to perform all other acts necessary and proper to the conduct of said court. The presiding officer of such court shall be known as the recorder. Said court shall be convened at such times as designated by ordinance or at such times as deemed necessary to keep current the dockets thereof. The court shall sit at a place designated by the mayor and council.
Sec. 6-2. - Recorder.
(1)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as recorder, unless he shall have attained the age of 21 years, shall not have been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude and shall be qualified to vote in Liberty County. Until such time that the mayor and council shall appoint a recorder, the mayor, or in his absence the mayor pro tem, shall act as recorder. The compensation of the recorder shall be fixed by the mayor and council.
(2)
The mayor and council may appoint a recorder pro tem to serve in the absence of the recorder. Said recorder pro tem shall have the same qualifications as the recorder. If the mayor is the recorder, the mayor pro tem shall act as the recorder pro tem.
(3)
Before entering on duties of his office, the recorder or recorder pro tem shall take an oath before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths in this State, that he will truly, honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability without fear, favor, or partiality. This oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the meeting of the mayor and council.
Sec. 6-3. - Jurisdiction.
The recorder shall have power to impose fines, costs and forfeitures for the violation of any law or ordinance of the city passed in accordance with this Act. Said recorder shall have the authority to punish for contempt by imposing a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) or imprisonment not exceeding thirty (30) days, or any combination of the two. He shall be to all intents and purposes a justice of the peace, so far as to enable him to issue warrants for offenses committed within the limits of the city, which warrants may be executed by an officer of said city, and to commit the offenders to jail or admit them to bail in bailable cases for their appearance at the next term of court of competent jurisdiction to be held in said city. The recorder's court shall also have concurrent jurisdiction with that of a justice of the peace over offenses against the criminal laws of the State committed within the corporate limits. Except as may be herein otherwise specified, the court is specifically invested with all jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area within the corporate limits granted by State laws generally to mayors', recorders', and police courts, and particularly such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances. Said recorder is hereby authorized to administer oaths.
Sec. 6-4. - Right of appeal.
The right of appeal and procedures pertaining to appeal bonds to the Superior Court of Liberty County from the recorder's court shall lie in the same manner and under the same procedure as generally prescribed for appeals and appeals bonds from the Court of Ordinary. An appeal to the Superior Court shall be a de novo proceeding, and the city shall be entitled to reimbursement of its costs therefor.
Sec. 6-5. - Court costs.
In all cases in the recorder's court, the costs incurred and allowable herein may be computed under the provisions of the laws of the State of Georgia fixing costs in the justice of the peace courts of said State, or the mayor and council may establish a schedule of fees to defray costs of operation and the city shall be entitled to reimbursement of the costs, meals, transportation and caretaking of prisoners bound over to the Superior Court for violations of State law. The mayor and council may also provide a uniform scale of costs of the clerk and police officers of said city for all services in the arrest and prosecution of offenders in the recorder's court and in the issuance and collection of tax and other executions; and for their collections and payment into the city treasury. The recorder is hereby authorized to issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses to said recorder's court, and to issue such other processes as may be necessary for the proper administration of said court.
Sec. 6-6. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the mayor and council, the recorder shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the business of said court; provided, however, that the mayor and council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations relative to the procedures of the operation of the superior courts under the general laws of the State of Georgia or other rules and regulations deemed desirable thereby. The recorder shall have the powers of a superior court judge to control the proceedings in said court.
ARTICLE VII. - SEVERABILITY

Sec. 7-1. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases of this Act, which shall remain of full force and effect, as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional was not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly hereby declared that it would have passed the remaining parts of this Act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
ARTICLE VIII. - REPEALER

Sec. 8-1. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
Subpart B - RELATED LAWS[1]
JOINT LIBERTY COUNTY, CITY OF GUM BRANCH, CITY OF MIDWAY, CITY OF RICEBORO, AND CITY OF WALTHOURVILLE FIRE PROTECTION FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT AUTHORITY — CREATION
To create the Joint Liberty County, City of Gum Branch, City of Midway, City of Riceboro, and City of Walthourville Fire Protection Facilities and Equipment Authority; to provide for a definition; to provide for the purpose and powers of the authority; to provide for appointment, eligibility, and terms of the members of the authority; to provide for organization, quorum, and meetings of the authority; to provide for rules and regulations; to provide for accountability and for financial and other records and for audits; to limit the powers of the authority; to provide for judicial jurisdiction; to provide that the powers of the authority are supplemental and provide for liberal construction; to provide an effective date; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the act creating the Joint Liberty County, City of Gum Branch, City of Midway, City of Riceboro, and City of Walthourville Fire Protection Facilities and Equipment Authority, as enacted by 1994 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 246), page 4826. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Any provisions regarding the title, publication date, approval date, notice to introduce legislation, and jurat have been omitted. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - [Definitions.]
As used in this Act, the term "project" means a capital outlay project or projects as defined and authorized under subparagraph (a)(1)(C) of Code Section 48-8-111 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-8-111] consisting of fire protection facilities and equipment.
Sec. 2. - [Body politic created; authority.]
(a)
There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Joint Liberty County, City of Gum Branch, City of Midway, City of Riceboro, and City of Walthourville Fire Protection Facilities and Equipment Authority which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and, by that name, style, and title, such body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(b)
The authority shall consist of 11 members, who shall be appointed as follows:
(1)
The governing authority of Liberty County shall appoint seven members;
(2)
The governing authority of the City of Gum Branch shall appoint one member;
(3)
The governing authority of the City of Midway shall appoint one member;
(4)
The governing authority of the City of Riceboro shall appoint one member; and
(5)
The governing authority of the City of Walthourville shall appoint one member.
(c)
No person shall be eligible to serve as a member of the authority unless that person:
(1)
Is a resident of Liberty County at the time of appointment;
(2)
Continues to reside within Liberty County during that person's term of office; and
(3)
Is a registered and qualified elector of Liberty County.
(d)
Members of the authority shall be appointed by a majority vote of the members of the governing authority authorized to make such appointment.
(e)
The initial members of the authority shall be appointed as soon as practicable after July 1, 1994, and serve for a term of office of one year and until their respective successors are appointed and qualified.
(f)
Successors to initial members of the authority whose terms of office expire in 1995 and all future successors to members of the authority whose terms of office are to expire shall be appointed immediately preceding the expiration of such terms and shall serve for terms of office of one year each and until the appointment and qualification of their respective successors.
(g)
There shall be no limit to the number of terms of office to which a person may be appointed to serve as a member of the authority.
(h)
In the event a vacancy occurs for any reason, such vacancy shall be filled by the applicable appointing authority. Any person appointed to fill such vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term of office and until the appointment and qualification of such person's successor.
(i)
The members of the authority shall receive no salary for their services.
(j)
The authority shall have full power to organize, adopt rules for its government, and generally to direct the affairs of the authority. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the power of the authority to exercise all of the rights and powers of and perform all of the duties and obligations of the authority.
(k)
The chairperson of the authority shall be a member elected annually by the membership of the authority. Such person shall serve as chairperson during that person's term of office.
(l)
A majority of the members in office shall constitute a quorum. The authority shall have perpetual existence; provided, however, that nothing contained in this Act shall preclude the General Assembly of Georgia from amending this Act.
Sec. 3. - [Accountability of authority.]
The members of the authority shall be accountable in all respects as trustees, and the authority shall keep suitable books and records of all its obligations, contracts, transactions, undertakings, income, receipts of every nature, and expenditures of every kind. The financial books and records of the authority shall be audited annually by the same auditor employed to audit the books and records of the Liberty County government. Said audit shall be paid for by the authority, and copies shall be furnished to the Board of Commissioners of Liberty County. Said audit shall be a public record.
Sec. 4. - [Purpose; power.]
(a)
The purpose of the authority shall be for the acquiring, constructing, equipping, or any combination thereof, in accordance with subparagraph (a)(1)(C) of Code Section 48-8-111 of the O.C.G.A., of a capital outlay project or projects consisting of fire protection facilities and equipment for the use and benefit of the citizens of Liberty County, the City of Gum Branch, the City of Midway, the City of Riceboro, and the City of Walthourville. The proceeds collected pursuant to the levy of the special county 1 percent sales and use tax pursuant to Article 3 of Chapter 8 of Title 48 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. art. 3, ch. 8 tit. 48] shall only be expended for such capital outlay project purposes and shall not be expended for maintenance and operation purposes. Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this Act, the further purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining, and operating adequate fire protection services, facilities, and equipment; making such facilities and the services thereof available to public and private consumers and users located in Liberty County and its environs, including municipalities inside the county; extending and improving such facilities; acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, with the right to contract for the use of or to lease or sell any or all of such facilities, including real property, to any persons, firms, or corporations, whether public or private, if in the sole judgment of the authority such use, lease, or sale supports the general purposes of the authority; and, doing all things deemed by the authority necessary, convenient, and desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development and operation of such type of undertakings.
(b)
The authority shall have the power to:
(1)
Adopt and alter a corporate seal;
(2)
Make contracts and execute all instruments necessary or convenient in connection with its purposes; and
(3)
Adopt, alter, or repeal its own bylaws, rules, and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the power granted to it may be enjoyed, as the authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
Sec. 5. - [Areas which authority has no power.]
The authority shall not have the power of eminent domain. The authority shall not have the power to issue revenue bonds or certificates of participation. The authority shall not have the power to incur any indebtedness in or for the purpose of the acquisition of real or personal property.
Sec. 6. - [Action brought against authority.]
Any action brought against the authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Liberty County and such court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of such action.
Sec. 7. - [Supplemental and additional powers.]
The provisions of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized by this Act and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
Sec. 8. - [Construed to effect purpose of Act.]
This Act, being for the welfare of Liberty County and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes of this Act.
Sec. 9. - [Effective date.]
This Act shall become effective on July 1, 1994.
Sec. 10. - [Repealer.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and Related Laws and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Act No. Page Section
this Charter or Related Laws
1974 1056 2704 Char.
1994 246 4826 R.L.
