ARTICLE II. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 2.0. - Schedule.
For the purpose of the administration and enforcement of this ordinance, and unless otherwise stated in this ordinance, the following words shall have a meaning as indicated herein. Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense; words used in the singular number shall include the plural number; words used in the plural number shall include the singular number; the word "shall" is mandatory, not directory.
2.1.
Accessory building. A secondary residence, garage, or other building or structure subordinated to and not forming an integral part of the main or principal building on a lot or parcel but pertaining to the use of the main building.
2.2.
Advertising signs. A surface whereon advertising material is set in public view, including reference to any use of premises whereon it is displayed or posted.
2.3.
Alley. A narrow thoroughfare dedicated or used for public passageway up to twenty (20) feet in width, which usually abuts the rear of the premises, or upon which service entrances or buildings abut, and which is not generally used as a thoroughfare by both pedestrians and vehicles, which is not used for general traffic, and which is not otherwise officially designated as a street. A way which affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
2.4.
Alterations. Any change in the arrangement of a building, including any work affecting the structural parts of a building; or an enlargement; or any change in writing, plumbing, heating, or cooling system; and includes the words "to alter" and "alter."
2.5.
Apartment building. A building which is used or intended to be used as a home or residence for more than two (2) families living in separate quarters.
2.6.
Automotive sales and services. The sale or storage of new or used automobiles, including paint and body repair shops.
2.7.
Deleted.
2.8.
Boat house. A house or shed for sheltering one or more boats.
2.9.
Boundary of district. The centerline of a street or right-of-way or the centerline of an alleyway between the rear or side property lines, or, where no alley or passageway exists, the rear or side property lines of all lots bordering on any zoning district limits or any zoning district boundary shown on the maps adopted by section 4.2.
2.10.
Buildable area. That portion of any lot which may be used or built upon in accordance with the regulations governing the given zoning district within which the particular lot is located, once the various front, side and rear yard requirements required for the district have been subtracted from the total lot area.
2.11.
Building. A building is any structure having a roof entirely separated from any other structure by space or by walls, having no communicating doors or windows or any similar opening, and being erected for the purpose of providing support or shelter for persons, animals, things or property of any kind, and having a foundation to which it is anchored.
2.12.
Building height. The height of a building with a gabled or hip roof shall be the vertical distance measured from the average elevation of the finished building site to the top of the roof of the uppermost story or to the deck line of a mansard roof. The height of a building with a flat or nearly flat roof, less than seven (7) degrees from the horizontal, shall be measured from the footing as stated above to the highest point of the roof.
2.13.
Building line. A line delineating the minimum allowable distance between the street right-of-way and nearest extreme projection of a building (including all areas covered by any vertical projections to the ground or overhang, walls, roof, or any other part of the structure).
2.14.
Building site. The ground area of a building or buildings together with all open spaces surrounded by said building or buildings.
2.15.
Building and zoning inspector. Any person hired by the local governing authority to inspect, determine compliance with, and render minor decisions concerning the compliance of structures and lots within a municipality, to the ordinances of that municipality.
2.16.
Camper. A motor home, tent, trailer, or other self-contained vehicle designed for recreational purposes.
2.17.
Care homes. Includes rest and nursing homes, convalescent homes and boarding homes for the aged; established to render nursing care for chronic or convalescent patients, but excludes facilities for care of active or violent patients such as feebleminded or mental patients, epileptics, alcoholics, senile psychotics, or drug addicts.
2.18.
Centerline, highway. The line running parallel with the highway right-of-way which is half-way the distance between the extreme edges of the official right-of-way width as shown on map approved by the county tax assessor.
2.19.
Certified survey. A survey, sketch, plat, map, or other exhibit is said to be certified when a written statement regarding its accuracy or conformity to specified standards is signed by the specified professional engineer, registered surveyor, architect, or other legally recognized person.
2.20.
Church. A legally approved structure and its accessory buildings used and approved on a permanent basis, primarily for the public worship of God.
2.21.
Club, private. An organization or association of persons for some common purpose, such as, but not necessarily limited to, a fraternal, social, educational or recreational purpose; but not including clubs organized primarily for profit or to render a service, which is customarily carried on as a business. Such organizations and associations must be incorporated under the laws of Georgia as a non-profit corporation and such corporations' major purpose shall not be for the purpose of serving alcoholic beverages to its members or others. This may not be located on, or operated by, or in connection with any commercial use.
2.21.a.
Conditional use. Those uses allowed within a district, only after specific requirements are met. The local governing authority at its discretion may require additional restraints, restrictions, qualifications, or limiting factors upon a specific use so that it becomes acceptable.
2.22.
Density. The number of units or buildings per acre, or the number of people per unit, building, acre or mile, the quantity of people, structures, or units within a specified area.
2.23.
Depth of lot. The depth of a lot is the depth between its mean front street line and its mean rear line, measured along the median between the two (2) side lot lines.
2.24.
Dwelling, condominium. A building or series of buildings on the same lot or portions thereof containing more than one dwelling unit under separate ownership with joint ownership of common open spaces.
2.25.
Dwelling, duplex. A residential building designed for, or used as, the separate homes or residences of two (2) separate and distinct families, but having the appearance of a single family dwelling house. Each individual unit in the duplex shall comply with the definition for a one family dwelling.
2.26.
Dwelling, group. A building or portion of a building occupied or intended for occupancy by several unrelated persons or families, but in which separate cooking facilities are not provided for such resident persons or families. The term "group dwelling" includes, but is not limited to, the terms "rooming house," "apartment hotel," "fraternity house" or "sorority house," "YMCA" or "YWCA." A hotel, motel, or tourist home shall not be deemed to be a group dwelling as herein defined.
2.27.
Dwelling, one-family. A private residential building used or intended to be used as a home or residence in which all living rooms are accessible to each other from within the building, and in which the use and management of all sleeping quarters, all appliances for sanitation, cooking, ventilating, heating, cooling, or lighting are designed for the use of one family only on a minimum of a single lot.
2.28.
Engineer. Any person having an acceptable degree from a recognized institution of higher learning who is capable of determining the correct manner in which to construct roads, streets, highways, water and sewerage systems, drainage system, structures or other technical related areas. The person to be a municipal engineer must be recognized by the State of Georgia as one.
2.29.
Estate. Any residential site comprising five (5) acres or more shall come within the meaning of the word "estate."
2.30.
Family. One person, or a group of two (2) or more persons living together, and inter-related by bond or consanguinity, marriage, or legal adoption occupying a dwelling unit designed as a single family unit, with a single set of kitchen facilities. The persons thus constituting a family may also include gratuitous guests and domestic servants.
2.31.
Flood prone areas. That land adjacent to a creek, stream, river, channel, canal or other body of water that is designated as a floodplain or flood prone area by a governmental agency.
2.32.
Floor area. The sum of the gross floor area for each of the several stories under roof, measured from the interior limits or faces of a building or structure.
2.33.
Floor area ratio. Floor area of building or buildings on any lot divided by the area of the lot.
2.34.
Frontage. The distance or width or a parcel of land abutting a public right-of-way and as measured upon such right-of-way.
2.35.
Garage, community. A structure or series of structures under one roof, and under one ownership, for the storage of vehicles by three (3) or more owners or occupants of property in the vicinity where said structure has no public shop or mechanical services in connection therewith.
2.36.
Garage, private. A structure for the private use of the owner or occupant of a principal building, situated on the same lot as the principal building for the storage of motor vehicles with no facilities for mechanical service.
2.37.
Garage, public. A structure for the storage, care, repair, or refinishing of motor vehicles, or a structure containing a public shop, or where automobile mechanical service is provided.
2.38.
Gas station. A structure designated or used for the retail sale or supply of fuel, lubricants, air, water, and other operating commodities for motor vehicles and including the customary spacing and facilities for the installation of such commodities on, or in, such vehicles, but not including space or facilities for the storage, painting, repair, refinishing, body work, or other servicing of motor vehicles.
2.39.
Governing authority. The mayor and council of a city or town or the board of commissioners of the county in which that city or town is located.
2.40.
Highway. Any public thoroughfare of paving twenty-two (22) feet or wider including streets, which affords primary access to abutting property, and any thoroughfare of less width which is not classified as an alley (street).
2.41.
Hospital. An institution providing health services, primarily for in-patients, and medical and surgical care of the sick or injured, including as an integral part of the institution such related facilities, central service facilities, and staff offices.
2.42.
Hotel. A building occupied as the more or less temporary residence of individuals who are lodged, with or without meals, and in which there are ten (10) or more sleeping rooms with entrances through a common lobby or office.
2.43.
House trailer. House trailer or mobile home means any vehicle or similar portable structure which was constructed with wheels so as to permit its being used as a duly licensable conveyance upon the public street, whether or not its wheels have been removed, and constructed to permit occupancy as a dwelling.
2.44.
Junk. Old and dilapidated automobiles, trucks, tractors, and other such vehicles and parts thereof, wagons and other kinds of vehicles and parts thereof, scrap building material, scrap piping, bottles, glass, old iron, machinery, rags, paper, excelsior, hair, mattresses, beds or bedding, or any other kind of scrap or waste material which is stored, kept, handled, or displayed within the county limits.
2.45.
Junkyard. Any land or building used for commercial, storage and/or sale of paper, rags, scrap metals, other scrap or discarded materials, or for the dismantling, storage or salvaging of automobiles or other vehicles not in running condition, or of machinery or parts thereof, but not to be used as a dump.
2.46.
Lot. Parcel of land shown on a recorded plat or on the official county zoning maps, or any piece of land described by a legally recorded deed.
2.47.
Lot, corner. Any lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two (2) or more intersections or intersecting streets or public highways. If the angle or intersections of the direction lines of two (2) highways is more than one hundred thirty-five (135) degrees, the lot fronting on said intersection is not a corner lot.
2.48.
Lot, interior. Any lot which is not a corner lot that has frontage only on one street other than an alley.
2.49.
Lot lines, front. In the case of a lot abutting upon only one street, the front lot line is the line separating such lot from such street. In the case of a corner lot, that part of the lot having the narrowest frontage on any street shall be considered the front lot line. In the case of any other lot, one such line shall be elected to be the front lot line for the purpose of this ordinance, provided it is so designated by the building plans which meet the approval of the building and zoning inspector.
2.50.
Lot lines, rear. The rear lot line is that boundary which is opposite and most distant from the front lot line. In the case of a lot pointed at the rear, or any odd-shaped lot, the rear lot line shall be determined by the building and zoning inspector.
2.51.
Lot lines, side. A side lot line is any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot line. A side lot line separating a lot from another lot, or lots, is an interior side lot line.
2.52.
Lot, through. Any lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or approximately parallel streets or other thoroughfares.
2.53.
Mapped streets. A mapped street is any approved street shown on an official map or the projection of any existing street through an unsubdivided parcel of land, whether the street is dedicated or in existence or not.
2.54.
Marshland. All land subject to tidal action which is comprised of generally unstable soil materials commonly known as hard or soft marsh, which in its natural state is vegetated with marsh grass, reeds and similar growth and is usually characterized by poor load bearing capacity. Marshland lies below an elevation of five and six-tenths (5.6) feet above mean sea level.
2.55.
Manufactured house. A non-self-propelled vehicle or conveyance that is towable and supported on its own chassis, permanently equipped to travel upon the public highways, that is used, either temporarily or permanently, as a residence or living quarters. Such unit shall be considered a manufactured house whether or not the wheels have been removed and whether or not set on jacks, skirts, masonry blocks, or other foundation.
2.55.1.
Manufactured house. A structure or component thereof, designed primarily for residential occupancy which is wholly or substantially made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities and assembled on a building site, into a dwelling unit supported on a permanent foundation. Manufactured houses shall meet the rules of the state board of community affairs, factory built dwelling units (Official Code of Georgia Annotated, section 8-2-110 et seq.) [O.C.G.A., ยง 8-2-110 et seq.].
2.56.
Motel ormotor hotel. A building or group of two (2) or more buildings designed to provide sleeping accommodations for transient or overnight guests with no common entrance or lobby. Each building shall contain a minimum of ten (10) residential units or rooms which generally have direct, private openings to a street, drive, or patio, etc.
2.57.
Non-conforming lot. Any lot which is smaller than the minimum dimensions, area, or other regulations of the district in which the lot is located.
2.58.
Non-conforming use. Use of any property or premises in any manner which does not comply with the regulations provided for the district in which the property or premises is situated, if such use was originally legally established at the effective date of this ordinance or any amendment thereof.
2.59.
Parking space. That area required for the parking or storage of one automobile, including necessary aisle or driveway space providing access thereto.
2.60.
Planning commission. An appointed body of people by the local governing authority whose responsibilities include the guidance of growth and development within the municipality and interpreting of the various municipal regulatory ordinances.
2.61.
Principal building. The building situated or to be placed nearest the front property line and the use of which conforms to the primary use permitted by the zone classification in which it is located.
2.62.
Professional services. The conduct of business in any of the following or related categories: law; architecture; accounting; engineering; medicine; dentistry; optometrics; osteopathy; chiropractics; optician; planning, or consulting of the nature of the aforestated categories and which do not include outside storage space for business vehicles or equipment.
2.63.
Public body. Any government or governmental agency of the county, the State of Georgia, or the United States Government.
2.64.
Public use. Use of any land, water, or buildings by a municipality, public body or board, commission or authority, county, state or the federal government, or any agency thereof for a public service or purpose.
2.65.
Repairs. Restoration of portions of a building to its condition as before decay, wear or damage, but not including alteration of the shape or size of any portion.
2.66.
Residential. The term "residential" or "residence" is applied herein to any lot, plot, parcel, tract, area, or piece of land and/or any building used exclusively for family dwelling purposes or intended to be used, including concomitant uses specified herein.
2.67.
Restaurant. A building, room or rooms where food is prepared and served to a group of families, a club, or to the public and for consumption within the enclosed structure.
2.68.
Right-of-way line. The outside boundaries of a highway right-of-way, whether such right-of-way be established by usage, dedication or by the official right-of-way.
2.69.
Rooming house. (The terms "rooming house," "boarding house," "tourist home," "cooperative house," and "lodging house" are used synonymously in this ordinance.) A building, other than a hotel or dormitory, where, for compensation and by prearrangement for definite periods, lodging or lodging and meals are provided for more than three (3) persons not related to the owners of the structure.
2.70.
Rooming unit. Any room or group of rooms, forming a single habitable unit used for living and sleeping, but which does not contain cooking or eating facilities.
2.71.
Setback. The minimum horizontal distance between the right-of-way line, rear or side lines of the lot and the front, rear or side lines of the building. When two (2) or more lots under one ownership are used, the exterior property line so grouped shall be used in determining offsets. When a lot abuts on a street or road which has a right-of-way of less than sixty (60) feet, the minimum setback for front, rear, or side yard shall be increased by the number of feet required to provide the same number of feet from the center of the road or street, as if said road or street had a right-of-way of sixty (60) feet.
2.72.
Site. An area designated as a separate and distinct parcel of land on a legally recorded subdivision plat or in a legally recorded deed.
2.73.
Special exception. A use, specifically designated in this ordinance, that would not be appropriate for location generally or without restriction throughout a given zoning district but which, if controlled as to number, area, location, or relation to the neighborhood, would, in the opinion of the governing authority, promote the public health, safety, welfare, morals, order, comfort, convenience, appearance, prosperity or general welfare.
2.74.
Story. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it; or if there be no floor above it, then the space between the floor and ceiling next above it.
2.75.
Street. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular traffic which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties.
2.76.
Structural alterations. Any change in the shape or size of any portion of a building or of the supporting members of a building or structure such as walls, columns, beams, arches, girders, floor joists, or roof joists.
2.77.
Surveyor. A person who determines or delineates the form, extent, position, distance or shape of a tract of land by taking linear and angular measurements, and by applying the principles of geometry and trigonometry.
2.78.
Structure. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires rigid location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent location on the ground; provided, however, that utility poles, fences and walls (other than building walls) shall not be considered to be structures.
2.79.
Subdivision. "Subdivision" means all divisions of a tract or parcel of land for residential purposes into two (2) or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or building development and includes all division of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets, and includes resubdivision and, where appropriate, to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided; provided, however, that the following exceptions are included within this definition only for the purpose of requiring that the local planning commission be informed and have record of such subdivisions:
(a)
The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the standards of the governing authority;
(b)
The division of land into six (6) or less parcels where no new street is involved and the resultant lots are equal to the standard of the municipality or county in which the division of land is being made.
Plats of such exception shall be received as information by the planning commission which shall indicate such fact on the plats.
2.80.
Trailer. A non-self-propelled vehicle or conveyance permanently equipped to travel upon the public highways that provides temporary use as a residence or living quarters or office; serves as a carrier of people, new or used goods, products or equipment; or is used as a selling, advertising or display device, whether or not the wheels have been removed and whether or not set on jacks, skirts, masonry blocks, or other foundation.
2.81.
Trash. Cuttings from vegetation, refuse, paper, bottles, and rags.
2.82.
Use. The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or intended, or for which either land or a building is or may be occupied or maintained.
2.83.
Variance. A modification of the strict terms of this ordinance granted by the governing authority where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest; and where, owning to conditions peculiar to the property and not as the result of any action on the part of the property owner, a literal enforcement of the ordinance would result in unnecessary and undue hardship; and where such modification will not authorize a principal or accessory use of the property which is not permitted within the zoning district in which the property is located.
2.84.
Vehicle. A conveyance for persons or materials.
2.85.
Waterfront. Any site shall be considered as waterfront property provided any or all of its lot lines abut on or are contiguous to any body of water including creek, canal, river, or any other body of water, natural or artificial, including marshland, not including a swimming pool, whether said lot line is front, rear, or side.
2.86.
Yard. An open space on the same lot with a building; said space lies between the building and nearest lot or street line.
2.87.
Yard, front. That area of open space to the front of the platted lot, the area immediately adjacent to the street side of the lot. If streets bound on two (2) sides of the lot, the narrower portion fronting on a street shall be declared the front. (See Lot line, front).
2.88.
Yard, rear. That area of open space that is opposite the area delineated as the front. That area of greatest distance from the street. (See Lot line, rear).
2.89.
Yard, side. That area of open space that is immediately adjacent to the side lot lines. (See Lot line, side).
2.90.
Zoning ordinance. An officially adopted ordinance that regulates the manner, type, size and use to which a piece of property may be put.
(Mo. of 10-4-1977; Mo. of 6-9-1983; Mo. of 9-6-1983; Mo. of 6-30-1986)
