ARTICLE IX. - AMENDMENTS TO MAP OR TEXT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— The Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.; zoning proposal review procedures, O.C.G.A. § 36-67-1 et seq.

Sec. 9.1. - General.
Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning practice require, the governing authority by ordinance, may, after receipt of recommendation thereon from the planning commission, and subject to the procedures provided by law, amend, supplement, or change the regulations, district boundaries or classifications of property, now or hereafter established by this ordinance or amendments thereof.
(Mo. of 12-3-1985)
Sec. 9.2. - Applications for change.
Applications for any change in the text or classifications of property shown on the zoning map, shall be submitted to the building and zoning inspector upon such forms and accompanied by such data and information as may be prescribed for that purpose by such inspector, so as to assure the fullest practicable presentation of facts for the record. Each application for a change of district boundaries or classification of property shall be verified by at least one of the owners or lessees of property or such person's representative, attesting to the truth and correctness of all facts and information presented with the application. It shall contain a map of the area proposed to be rezoned, and the area within two hundred (200) feet, giving the names and addresses of property owners, and all district boundary lines, and streets and alleys located therein. The inspector shall check the application to determine whether it conforms with the requirements listed above. Amendments to the zoning ordinance may also be initiated by the Liberty County Joint Planning Commission and after a public hearing, may be recommended to the local governing authority.
(Mo. of 12-3-1985)
Sec. 9.3. - Public hearing.
All amendments to this zoning ordinance shall require a public hearing. Additional public hearings may be held if deemed appropriate by the governing authority.
9.3.1.
Responsibility for hearing. The Liberty County Joint Planning Commission is delegated authority to hold all hearings required by this ordinance in lieu of a hearing by the governing authority.
9.3.2.
Public notice of hearing. Notice of hearing shall be given at least fifteen (15), but not more that forty-five (45) days in advance by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the county by the commission and shall state the time, place and purpose of the hearing. If the purpose of the hearing is to consider rezoning property (amend zoning map), the notice shall include the location of the property, Liberty County tax map number and parcel number, its present zoning classification and proposed zoning classification and owner or representative who is making the request.
9.3.3.
Posting sign on property. A sign shall be placed on the property (in a conspicuous location) by the commission, not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, containing information that rezoning is being considered, the date, time and place of the hearing, present zoning classification and proposed zoning classification.
9.3.4.
Notice to applicant. The commission shall notify the applicant in writing at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the date, time and place of the hearing.
9.3.5.
Notice to other property owners. The commission shall give notice of the time, place and purpose of public hearings to be held by it on proposed amendments or supplements, by mailing a postal card or letter notice to the owners of all properties lying within two hundred (200) feet of any part of the property proposed to be changed. The failure to notify any specific property owner as provided in this section, shall not invalidate any recommendations adopted hereunder, provided that other adjacent property owners are notified; it being the intention of the section to provide, so far as may be possible, due notice to the persons substantially interested in the proposed change, that an application is pending before the commission, proposing to make a change in the zoning map or the regulations set forth in this ordinance.
9.3.6.
Conduct of hearing. The following procedures shall be followed:
9.3.6.1.
The hearing shall be conducted by the chairman of the Liberty County Joint Planning Commission or in the chairman's absence by the vice-chairman.
9.3.6.2.
A secretary shall record the proceedings of the public hearing. The record with all evidence submitted at the hearing shall be recorded as such and become a permanent part of the particular zoning amendment's file. Any party desiring a verbatim transcript of the hearing may bring a stenographer or tape recorder.
9.3.6.3.
The chairman shall open the hearing by stating the specific zoning amendment being considered and indicated on county tax map the specific area involved.
9.3.6.4.
The chairman shall determine if the applicant is present.
9.3.6.5.
The chairman shall determine the number and names of persons attending who desire to testify or present evidence at the hearing.
9.3.6.6.
The chairman shall permit the applicant to present the proposal, then.
9.3.6.7.
The chairman shall permit each person attending who has indicated a desire, to present such person's evidence, and/or speak. When there are a large number of individuals, time limits may be invoked which shall apply equally to all individuals.
9.3.6.8.
All speakers shall address the chair and may not ask questions of each other. Members of the commission may ask questions of any speaker.
9.3.6.9.
When all have been heard the chairman shall declare that the receiving of testimony is closed.
9.3.6.10.
After the receipt of all testimony and the consideration of all facts developed, the commission shall take into account the following factors:
a.
Will the zoning proposal adversely affect the existing use value or usability of adjacent or nearby property? This especially applies to adjacent or nearby residential property.
b.
Will the proposed zoning amendment permit a use that is suitable in view of the use and development of adjacent and nearby property?
c.
Does the property proposed to be rezoned have a reasonable economic use as currently zoned?
d.
Will the proposed zoning change result in a use which will or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, or schools?
e.
Will the proposed zoning change be in conformity with the policy and intent of the Liberty County land use plan?
f.
Are there other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property proposed to be rezoned which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval?
g.
Is this request a logical extension of a zoning boundary which would improve the pattern of uses in the general area and conform to the comprehensive plan?
h.
Is this spot zoning and generally unrelated to either existing zoning or the pattern of development of the area, and contrary to the intent of the comprehensive plan?
i.
Would granting this request extend to the applicant development rights denied to others similarly situated in the same area?
j.
Does this request have the potential of achieving short-term, to the disadvantage of long-term, development goals?
k.
Could this request have a domino effect, in that it becomes the opening wedge for further rapid growth, urbanization, or other land-use change beyond what is indicated in the existing land use plan?
l.
Could a change in classification adversely affect market values and/or tax rates of nearby properties?
9.3.7.
Action by planning commission. When all considerations of the matter have been completed the chairman shall entertain a motion from any member of the planning commission as to what recommendation shall be made to the governing authority. If no motion is made, the chairman shall ask for a vote of those who recommend approval and then those who recommend disapproval. The planning commission may recommend approval, disapproval or approval to a more restrictive zoning than that requested.
(Mo. of 12-3-1985)
Sec. 9.4. - Reconsideration of zoning decision.
All adverse determination of rezoning requests made by the governing authority may not be again submitted for rezoning for a period of six (6) months from the date of the adverse determination by the governing authority.
(Mo. of 12-3-1985)
