ARTICLE I. - INTRODUCTION AND ENACTMENT

Sec. 1.1. - Title.
These regulations shall be known and may be cited as the "Zoning Ordinance of Liberty County, Georgia."
Sec. 1.2. - Enactment.
Whereas the board of commissioners of Liberty County has acted pursuant to the authority as amended by the regular 1973 session of the General Assembly of Georgia, the following ordinance to be known as the "Zoning Ordinance of Liberty County, Georgia," is hereby adopted and ordained effective the twenty-third day of July, 1975. As part of this ordinance so enacted into law is the "Official Zoning Map of Liberty County," said map being identified by the inscription, "Zoning Map of Liberty County" adopted on the twenty-third day of July, 1975; and signed by the clerk of the board of commissioners.
Sec. 1.3. - Purposes.
The zoning regulations and districts as herein set forth are made in accordance with the comprehensive land use plan of Liberty County, with consideration for the character of the county, its various parts and structures, and in order to promote, protect and facilitate the public health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the county, and of the public generally. The danger and congestion in travel and transportation, loss of health, life or property or other dangers. The ordinance is also intended to support the following community development objectives:
Appearance. To improve the appearance and utility of the land and structures in the county and to control the filling of flood plains, misuses of marshlands and stream banks, use of signs, and screening of junkyards and other areas of bad appearance.
Education. To help maintain public and private school systems, capable of maximizing a student's potential, including large administrative districts with diversified educational opportunities. To better educate people of all ages, races, incomes, mental capabilities and physical handicaps.
Transportation. To create an integrated transportation system, by using public transportation to its maximum effectiveness, and integrating it with private transportation, and to prepare and obtain acceptance of a continuing transportation system for the county, and particularly to assist low income groups and elderly citizens in obtaining better transportation to jobs and shopping areas.
Recreation and tourism. Provide sufficient recreation facilities, particularly at the community level, and promote tourism to the greatest extent possible.
Pollution. Eliminate or reduce major sources of pollution.
Flooding. To provide additional flood protection for critical areas, and to discharge development in flood prone areas that would be damaged by flooding.
Housing. To provide an adequate supply of safe and sanitary housing in a decent environment for all income groups, regardless of race, color or background, including the rehabilitation of existing structures.
Crime prevention. To reduce the incidence of crime to the extent possible.
Economics. To increase the tax base by providing land for commercial and industrial growth where feasible, and minimize the conflict between industrial and commercial growth and residential or public development.
Utilities. To promote the provision of public and private utilities.
Land Use and Comprehensive Plans. To use the zoning ordinance as a tool to help implement the land use and comprehensive plans.
Health. To improve the health of the residents of the county by controlling pollution, separating new residences for adequate light, sun and air, and providing adequate treatment facilities at the lowest possible cost.
Compliance. Except as hereinafter provided, no land, building, structure or premises shall hereafter be used, and no building or part thereof or other structure shall be located, erected, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, converted, altered or moved except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located, and in conformity with all duly ordained ordinances, resolutions and subdivision regulations of the county. No yard space or minimum area required for a building or use shall be considered as any part of the yard space or minimum area for another building or use.
