ARTICLE VII. - APPEALS

Sec. 7.1. - Organization and procedure.
7.1.1.
Authority. All appeals shall be decided by the governing authority, the same being the board of commissioners of the county.
7.1.2.
Procedure. Appeals may be made by any person or official aggrieved or affected by any provision of the zoning ordinance or by the decision of the planning commission or by the decision of the building and zoning inspector or other officer charged with enforcement of the provisions of the zoning ordinance. Such appeal must be made within twenty (20) days after said decision, by filing with the building and zoning inspector, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds therefore. The building and zoning inspector shall arrange for the proper notices and shall bring the appeal before the governing authority at its next meeting.
7.1.3.
Stay of proceedings. An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the building and zoning inspector shall certify to the governing authority after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in such inspector's opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the governing authority or by a court of equity, after notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken, and on due cause shown.
7.1.4.
Filing. The governing authority may require the applicant to furnish such information as it deems necessary, when filing an application or appeal, and may require specific forms to be used.
7.1.5.
Reserved.
7.1.6.
Refiling of disapproved or withdrawn cases. If a case is disapproved by the governing authority, thereafter the governing authority shall take no further action for substantially the same proposal or the same property, until one year after the date of such disapproval. If a case before the governing authority is advertised, and thereafter withdrawn by the applicant before or at the meeting of the governing authority, applicant shall be precluded from filing another application for substantially the same proposal on the same premises for six (6) months.
(Mo. of 9-6-1983)
Sec. 7.2. - Hearings.
Upon filing of an appeal or application, the governing authority shall fix a time and place for a hearing, and give notice as follows:
7.2.1.
Public notice. Notice given not more than thirty (30) days and not less than fifteen (15) days in advance of any public hearing required by this ordinance. Such notice shall be published once each week for two (2) successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the county. Such notice shall state the time and place of the hearing and the particular nature of the matter to be considered at the hearing.
7.2.2.
Decisions of the governing authority. The governing authority shall decide all applications and appeals within sixty (60) days after the final hearing thereon. Notice of decision shall be given to all parties so requesting. The governing authority's decision shall be binding on the building and zoning inspector, and such inspector shall incorporate the terms and conditions of the same in any permit issued.
(Mo. of 9-6-1983)
Sec. 7.3. - Conditional uses.
Initial application for a conditional use shall be made to the building and zoning inspector who shall determine whether the use is allowed as a conditional use in the particular zone. If such use is allowed, the building and zoning inspector shall submit the application to the planning commission for its comments. Upon review by the planning commission, recommendations shall be presented to the governing authority as to additional restraints, restrictions, qualifications, or limiting factors that are felt to be desirable. The governing authority shall review all recommendations and approve or disapprove the conditional use.
7.3.1.
Considerations for determining additional requirements for conditional use.
7.3.1.1.
Approval of a conditional use shall not adversely affect the economic values or the physical appearance of the neighborhood or areas surrounding the site or lot in question.
7.3.1.2.
The physical and environmental effects of allowing the conditional use shall be considered.
7.3.1.3.
Buffer zones, where necessary to shield any adverse factors, shall be considered.
7.3.1.4.
Additional space for parking, landscaping, building, loading zones and setback shall be considered if necessary to protect adjacent structures or lots from any adverse impact.
7.3.2.
Action of governing authority. The governing authority may add, delete, modify, or change any recommendation made by the planning commission.
(Mo. of 9-6-1983)
Sec. 7.4. - Powers and Limitations of the Board.
7.4.1.
Administrative review. The governing authority shall have the following powers:
7.4.1.1.
To hear and decide appeals where an error is alleged in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the building and zoning inspector in the enforcement of any section or article adopted pursuant to this ordinance.
7.4.1.2.
To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of the ordinance upon which such board is required to pass.
7.4.1.3.
To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of the ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions a literal enforcement of the provisions of the ordinance will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of the ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Such variance may be granted in such individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the governing authority that:
(a)
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or topography;
(b)
The application of the ordinance to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship;
(c)
Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved; and
(d)
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of the ordinance; provided, however, that no variance may be granted for a use of land or building or structure that is prohibited by the ordinance. In exercising the above powers, the governing authority may, in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirements, decision, or determination, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken and may issue or direct the issuance of a permit.
7.4.2.
Variances. On an appeal from an order, requirement, decision or determination of the building and zoning inspector, or any other administrative officer or agency, the governing authority may grant a variance in the application of the provisions of the zoning ordinance, only if all of the following findings are made:
7.4.2.1.
That there are unique physical circumstances or conditions, including irregularity, narrowness, or shallowness of lot size or shape or exceptional topographical or other physical conditions peculiar to the particular property, and that the unnecessary hardship is due to such conditions, and not to circumstances or conditions generally created by the provisions of the zoning ordinance in the neighborhood or district in which the property is located.
7.4.2.2.
That because of such physical circumstances or conditions, there is no possibility that the property can be developed in strict conformity with the provisions of the zoning ordinance, and that the authorization of a variance is therefore necessary to enable the reasonable use of the property.
(Mo. of 9-6-1983)
