Chapter 18 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. §§ 38-3-1—38-3-64.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 18-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, acts of domestic or international terrorism, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, radiological action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, those set forth below, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of such functions:
(1)
Firefighting services;
(2)
Police services;
(3)
Emergency medical services;
(4)
Rescue;
(5)
Engineering;
(6)
Warning services;
(7)
Communications;
(8)
Defense from radiological, chemical, biological and other special weapons, to include weapons of mass destruction;
(9)
Evacuation of persons from stricken areas;
(10)
Emergency welfare services;
(11)
Consequence management functions, to include victim services;
(12)
Emergency transportation;
(13)
Plant protection;
(14)
Temporary restoration of public utility services; and
(15)
Other functions related to civilian protection.
(Code 2000, § 30-1)
State Law reference— Statutory definition for state emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(2).
Sec. 18-2. - Unlawful acts during emergencies.
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any of the following acts during an emergency:
(1)
Willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any person duly authorized to enforce any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant to this article or in the performance of any duty imposed by virtue of this article.
(2)
Do any act forbidden by any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant to this article if such act is of such a nature so as to give assistance to the enemy; imperil the life or property of any inhabitant of this city; or prevent, hinder, or delay the defense or protection thereof.
(3)
Wear, carry, or display without authority any mark or identification specified by the state emergency management and homeland security agency.
(Code 2000, § 30-2)
Sec. 18-3. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 2000, § 30-3)
Sec. 18-4. - Liberality of construction.
This chapter shall be construed liberally in order to effectuate its purpose.
(Code 2000, § 30-4)
Secs. 18-5—18-26. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY AUTHORITY OF CITY COMMISSION

Sec. 18-27. - Conditions authorizing declaration of emergency.
The city commission shall have the right to declare an emergency to exist when, in its opinion, one or more of the following conditions exists:
(1)
There is extreme likelihood of danger of destruction of life or property due to unusual conditions;
(2)
There are unusual or extreme weather conditions, making use of city streets or areas difficult or impossible;
(3)
Civil unrest, commotion, or uprising is imminent or exists; or
(4)
There is a stoppage or loss of electrical power affecting a major portion of the city.
(Code 2000, § 30-31)
Sec. 18-28. - Powers after declaration.
After declaration of an emergency under section 18-27, the city manager, as chief administrative officer, shall have the right to exercise any or all of the following powers:
(1)
Use employees of the city to assist in the safety and preservation of life, limb, and property of its citizenry.
(2)
Close streets and sidewalks and to delineate areas within the city wherein an emergency exists.
(3)
Impose emergency curfew regulations.
(4)
Close business establishments within the affected area.
(5)
Close any or all city-owned buildings and other facilities to the use of the general public.
(6)
Do all acts necessary and incidental to the preservation of life, limb, and property of the citizenry of the city.
(Code 2000, § 30-32)
State Law reference— Operations of governing body during emergencies, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-54.
Sec. 18-29. - Effective period of emergency powers.
No emergency power, as set forth in section 18-28, may be effective for more than 30 days after the declaration of an emergency by the city commission. However, this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in section 3.18 of the city Charter if the emergency continues to exist. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in section 3.18 of the city Charter for adoption of emergency ordinances.
(Code 2000, § 30-33)
Sec. 18-30. - Specified area.
The declaration of an emergency as to a portion of the city shall specify with exactness the area in which the emergency is declared to exist.
(Code 2000, § 30-35)
Secs. 18-31—18-48. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - COUNTYWIDE AGENCY

Sec. 18-49. - Participation.
It is the desire and intent of the city commission that the city be a part of the county emergency management agency.
(Code 2000, § 30-61)
State Law reference— County with organization for emergency management to include cities' participation, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27(a)(1).
Sec. 18-50. - Composition, functions.
(a)
The county emergency management agency shall be established around existing city and county departments. The city emergency functions are assigned as follows:
CITY/COUNTY DEPARTMENT SCHEDULE
EXPAND
Department/agency Functions
Chairman, County Commissioners Direction and control
County Police Department Communications and warning
Sheriff's Office
City Police
County Administrator's Office Emergency public information
County Police Department Search, rescue, and recovery
City Police
Sheriff's Office
County Police Department Law enforcement services
City Police
Sheriff's Office
County Police Department Evacuation services
City Police
Fire Department
Fire Department Fire services and emergency services
Administrative Services Transportation services
Board of Education
County Public Utilities Public works services
Fire Medical and deceased identification services
County Police Department
City Police
American Red Cross Emergency shelter services
Emergency Management
American Red Cross Food services
DFACS (Georgia Division of Family and Children Services) Human services
Fire Radiological protection
Fire Damage assessment services
Fire and Emergency Services Resources management
Fire Hazardous materials
Emergency Management Attack preparedness, dam failure preparedness
  (b)
Heads of city departments listed in subsection (a) of this section are responsible for assisting county department heads in developing appropriate annexes to the local emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local emergency operations plan for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Code 2000, § 30-64)
Sec. 18-51. - Powers during an emergency, disaster.
Upon a manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, the city commission separately, or jointly with the chairman of the county commissioners, or, in their absences, their legally appointed successors, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws, and regulations relating to emergency management, and assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources.
(2)
Seize or take for temporary use, any private property for the protection of the public.
(3)
Sell, lend, give, or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the city and maintain a strict accounting of such property or supplies distributed and funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary, to promote and secure the safety, protection, and wellbeing of the inhabitants of the city.
(Code 2000, § 30-65)
Sec. 18-52. - Volunteers.
All persons other than officers and employees of the city volunteering in service pursuant to the defense under this article shall serve without compensation. While engaged in such service, they shall have the same immunities as officers and employees of the city performing similar duties.
(Code 2000, § 30-66)
