Chapter 16 - CEMETERIES

Sec. 16-1. - Scope.
This chapter sets forth the minimum requirements and standards for premises, monuments, and structures at city cemeteries.
Sec. 16-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Burial space means land area five feet wide and ten feet in length, except that this provision shall not apply to smaller burial spaces, if any, currently designated in the Hillcrest Cemetery. Burial space will accommodate one vault, one vault and one cremation, or up to two cremations.
Cemetery means Hillcrest Cemetery.
Cemetery lot means burial spaces sufficient to accommodate six burials.
Memorial means and includes a monument, marker, tablet, headstone, or footstone, for family or individual use.
Monument means and includes a tombstone or memorial of granite or other material, which shall extend above the surface of the ground.
Shrub means a woody plant, smaller than a tree, consisting of several small stems from the ground or small branches near the ground, and may be deciduous or evergreen.
Tree means a woody, perennial plant, ordinarily with one main stem or trunk, which develops many branches, and which ordinarily grows to a height of ten feet or more with a diameter in excess of six inches at a height of five feet or any self-supporting, woody plant having at least one well-defined stem.
Vegetation means any tree, shrub, herb, grass, fern, or flower.
(Code 2000, § 66-10(a)(1); Ord. of 5-3-2010, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 16-3. - General rules and regulations.
(a)
Visitors shall treat the cemetery grounds with respect at all times.
(b)
Monuments, sculptures, and artifacts are the private property of others. Please do not touch without permission.
(c)
Littering is prohibited.
(d)
Visitors shall stay on designated walkways and paved roadways and keep all vehicles on the pavement and off the grass.
(e)
Visitors shall be respectful of funeral processions and memorial services.
(f)
With the exception of bottled water, food and beverages are prohibited from cemetery grounds.
(g)
Interment and disinterment in Hillcrest Cemetery shall only be conducted after a permit is issued by the city.
(Code 2000, § 66-10(a)(2); Ord. of 5-3-2010, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 16-4. - Hillcrest Cemetery; purchase of lots limited.
(a)
Hillcrest Cemetery in the city is owned and operated by the city.
(b)
All rights to cemetery lots and burial spaces shall be sold on an approved form by the cemetery manager. The cemetery lot certificate grants a right of burial only and does not convey any other title to the lot or burial space.
(c)
The availability of lots for purchase in Hillcrest Cemetery shall be limited to bona fide legal residents or taxpayers of the city for the purpose of the burial of such purchaser or his or her heirs at law or next of kin. No more than six burial spaces will be sold to one individual. No sale shall be made to funeral directors, companies, or others than as set forth. The city manager, however, is hereby granted the authority to vary the restriction on sales where the purchaser disclosed personal reason for burial with the city through previous residence in the city or relationship to persons interned there. Any such resident or taxpayer, before purchasing any lots in the cemetery, shall satisfy the city manager or his designee that he/she is a legal resident of the city.
(d)
Burial rights may only be transferred to those persons eligible to be original purchasers of cemetery lots or burial spaces within the city and may be effected only by endorsement of an assignment of such burial permit upon the original burial permit form issued by the cemetery manager, approved by the city manager, and entered upon the official records. Upon such assignment, approval, and record, the cemetery manager shall issue a new burial permit to the assignee and shall cancel and terminate on the records, the original permit. A transfer fee in the amount set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk will be charged.
(e)
In case of an indigent who dies in the city without resources for burial, the city will assign a burial space, rights to which will remain with the city.
(Code 2000, § 66-10(b); Ord. of 5-3-2010, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 16-5. - Minimum requirements and standards for premises, monuments and structures at city cemeteries.
(a)
The cemetery manager must approve the plan, design, and placement of all monuments and markers.
(b)
All monuments shall have a minimum five-inch-thick concrete foundation. Flush and foot markers shall have a minimum four-inch-thick concrete foundation. Foundations shall exceed by a five percent minimum the length and width of the monument base or the marker.
(c)
All monuments shall consist of a base and die. The die thickness shall be no more than 50 percent of the width of the base. The die length shall be at least 18 inches shorter than the base. Minimum thickness of a die shall be four inches. Minimum thickness of a base shall be ten inches.
SINGLE SPACE
Flat Marker

(d)
For a single grave lot, markers of a flat type only shall be used. Flat markers are to be placed flush with the ground allowing lawnmowing equipment to pass over the marker without causing damage.
(e)
A monument for a two burial space lot shall be placed in the center of the head of the two burial spaces. The monument shall have a minimum base length of five feet and a maximum base length of seven feet.
DOUBLE SPACE WITH AN
ABOVEGROUND MONUMENT
Marker centered at the head of spaces

(f)
A monument for a three burial space lot shall be placed in the center of the head of three burial spaces (similar to a two burial space lot). The monument base shall have a minimum base length of five feet and a maximum base length of eight feet.
(g)
A monument for lots with four or more burial spaces side by side shall be placed in the center of the head of the burial spaces. The monument base length shall be a minimum of five feet. The maximum base length shall depend on the number of spaces purchased.
MONUMENT ON A FIVE-SPACE LOT
Monument is in the center
of the five spaces

(h)
A monument for four or more burial spaces purchased in a back-to-back layout shall be placed in the center of the burial space.
MONUMENT ON A FOUR-SPACE LOT
WHERE THE SPACES ARE
BACK TO BACK
Monument goes in the center of the spaces

MONUMENT ON A TEN-SPACE LOT
WITH FOOTSTONES ON
INDIVIDUAL LOTS

(i)
Metal markers left by funeral homes are only temporary markers and will be removed after 14 days due to hazards they may cause to visitors, maintenance personnel, and equipment.
(j)
The lot holder or surviving kindred will be responsible for maintenance, upkeep, and cleaning of all monuments and foot markers on their respective lot. For the protection of all lot owners, persons, or firms erecting, cleaning, or repairing monuments shall first contact the city during normal working hours before any work shall begin and all work shall comply with the rules and regulations as required.
(k)
Fencing, walls, sidewalks, planted flowers, trees, shrubs, fixtures, figurines, or other items or obstructions that might interfere with normal maintenance, cutting, and cleaning of the lot will not be allowed, unless constructed, placed, or planted by the city. The city may remove any such flowers, shrubs, trees or other plantings when, in the opinion of the city, they interfere with the proper maintenance or detract from the appearance of the cemetery grounds or structures, become diseased, damaged by the elements, or do not conform to these rules and regulations.
(l)
American flags that stand less than three feet above the surface are allowed.
(m)
Except with the written consent of the city, no flowers, shrubs, or trees shall be planted within the cemetery. The city will remove any such flowers, shrubs, trees, or other plantings when, in the opinion of the city, they interfere with the proper maintenance or detract from the appearance of cemetery grounds or structures.
(n)
No fence, railing, coping, or hedge shall be placed beside or around any burial space nor shall any seat, rock works, or other architectural objects be installed without the written consent and approval of the city. When, in the opinion of the city, such objects interfere with the proper maintenance or detract from the appearance of the cemetery, the city may remove such items.
(o)
Items and decorations removed will be stored by the city for a period of 60 days, except for perishable or deteriorated items.
(Code 2000, § 66-10(c); Ord. of 5-3-2010, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 16-6. - Forfeiture of vacant cemetery lots or burial spaces.
Cemetery lots or burial spaces sold and remaining vacant 40 years from the date of their sale shall automatically revert to the city upon occurrence of the following events:
(1)
Notice shall be sent by the cemetery manager by certified mail to the last owner of record that all rights with respect to said lots or spaces will be forfeited if he/she does not affirmatively indicate in writing to the cemetery manager within 60 days from the date of mailing of the notice his/her desire to retain said burial rights.
(2)
No written response to said notice indicating a desire to retain the cemetery lots or burial spaces in question is received by the cemetery manager from the last owner of record of said lots or spaces or his/her heirs or legal representative within 60 days from the date of mailing of said notice.
(Code 2000, § 66-10(d); Ord. of 5-3-2010, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 16-7. - Repurchase of lots or burial space.
The city will repurchase any cemetery lot or burial space from the owner for the original price paid the city upon the written request of said owner or his/her legal heirs or representatives.
(Code 2000, § 66-10(e); Ord. of 5-3-2010, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 16-8. - Flowers.
(a)
Artificial flower arrangements will be removed by the city on or after six months or as they become in disarray, whichever comes first.
(b)
Potted plants may be placed on the lot via in-ground pot-holders or on the monument base. As long as they remain in good condition (watered and taken care of by the owner) and do not overgrow the lot, the city will not remove them.
(c)
Flowers for new burials will be removed after seven days following a service. One arrangement may be left behind subject to subsection (a) or (b) of this section. Family members wishing to save flowers should pick them up within two days after a service.
(d)
Christmas flowers will be removed on or about February 1.
(e)
Flowers may be removed if an abundance of flowers or wreaths or other items on an individual lot interferes with maintenance of said lot.
(f)
It is suggested that flowers placed on monuments be securely attached as they are frequently blown away by the wind and will be disposed of by the city.
(Code 2000, § 66-10(f); Ord. of 5-3-2010, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 16-9. - Cremations.
Cremations shall be treated as a single burial plot, unless otherwise approved by the city. If a cremation is permitted to share a burial space, a single plot marker must be placed at the foot of the existing burial space. In any event, no more than two individual cremations shall be placed in a single five-foot by ten-foot burial space.
(Code 2000, § 66-10(g); Ord. of 5-3-2010, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 16-10. - Motor vehicles.
No motor vehicle shall be driven more than ten miles per hour in the cemetery. No motor vehicle shall be driven off of a road except for contractor installations and to allow for safe traffic flow.
(Code 2000, § 66-10(h); Ord. of 5-3-2010, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 16-11. - Prohibited activities.
The following are prohibited at Hillcrest Cemetery:
(1)
Dogs/pets with the exception of service dogs that are trained to assist visually- or hearing-impaired individuals, that are being used at the time by a visually- or hearing-impaired individual that is visiting the cemetery.
(2)
Smoking.
(3)
Picking flowers or plants.
(4)
Damaging trees or shrubs.
(5)
Defacing any walls, headstones, or monuments.
(6)
The use of wire of any kind to secure decorations.
(7)
Removing of decoration unless in accordance with these rules and regulations.
(8)
Placing of benches, chairs, or any articles of like kind on the grounds of the cemetery, unless provided or placed by the city.
(9)
Interment and disinterment in Hillcrest Cemetery shall only be conducted after a permit is issued by the city.
(Code 2000, § 66-10(i); Ord. of 5-3-2010, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 16-12. - Visitation hours.
Cemetery visitation begins at dawn and ends at dusk.
(Code 2000, § 66-10(j); Ord. of 5-3-2010, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 16-13. - Licensing, contracting, other requirements.
(a)
Funeral homes providing services in Hillcrest Cemetery shall be licensed by the state.
(b)
The fees for a single burial space and for each cremation, as approved by the city, shall be in the amount set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk and shall be paid in full prior to burial.
(c)
Funeral homes shall notify the cemetery manager of pending burials as soon as practical.
(d)
Funeral homes shall be responsible for the actions of their contractor while they are performing work in the cemetery.
(e)
The city reserves the right to approve or reject contractors who perform work in Hillcrest Cemetery. Upon request, the cemetery manager shall designate a location for the deposit of stones, bricks, or other materials during erection or installation of a memorial, which shall not be allowed to remain on the ground no longer than is actually necessary for the completion of the work.
(f)
Only human remains are permitted to be buried within the cemetery.
(Code 2000, § 66-10(k); Ord. of 5-3-2010, § 1(exh. A))
