ARTICLE III. - ORGANIZATION OF GOVERNMENT, GENERAL AUTHORITY AND ORDINANCES

Sec. 3.10. - General power and authority.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the city commission shall be vested with all the powers of government of this city as provided by article I of this charter.
Sec. 3.11. - Organization.
(a)
The city commission shall hold an organizational meeting at the first regular meeting in January following an election. The meeting shall be called to order by the city clerk and the oath of office shall be administered to the newly elected members as follows:
"I do solemnly (swear or affirm) that I will faithfully perform the duties of city commissioner of this city and that I will support and defend the charter thereof as well as the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America, so help me God."
(b)
The commission members shall elect one of their number as chairperson and shall elect another of their number as vice-chairperson. The chairperson, or in his or her absence, the vice-chairperson, shall preside at all meetings of the city commission.
Sec. 3.12. - Inquiries and investigations.
The city commission may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department, office, or agency thereof and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the city commission shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
Sec. 3.13. - Meetings.
(a)
The city commission shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as shall be prescribed.
(b)
Special meetings of the city commission may be called and held pursuant to state law.
(c)
All meetings of the city commission shall be public to the extent required by law and notice to the public of special meetings shall be given as required by law.
Sec. 3.14. - Procedures.
The city commission shall adopt its rules of procedure and order of business consistent with the provisions of this charter and shall provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings which shall be a public record.
Sec. 3.15. - Voting.
Two commission members shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact the business of the city commission. Voting on the adoption of ordinances and resolutions shall be by voice vote and the vote shall be recorded in the journal, but any member of the city commission shall have the right to request a roll-call vote and such vote shall be recorded in the journal. Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the affirmative vote of two commission members shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion.
Sec. 3.16. - Ordinances and resolutions.
(a)
Every proposed ordinance or resolution shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not expressed in its title. The enacting clause of every ordinance shall be "The Commission of the City of Buford hereby ordains."
(b)
Upon introduction of any ordinance, the city clerk shall, as soon as possible, distribute a copy to each commission member and shall file a reasonable number of copies in the office of the city clerk and at such other public places as the city commission may designate. Ordinances shall be considered effective on the date of adoption unless provided otherwise therein.
Sec. 3.17. - Effect of ordinances.
Acts of the city commission that have the force and effect of law shall be enacted by ordinance.
Sec. 3.18. - Emergencies [Emergency ordinances].
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property, or public peace, the city commission may convene on the call of two commission members and may promptly adopt an emergency ordinance, but such ordinance shall not levy taxes; grant, renew, or extend a franchise; regulate the rates charged by any public utility for its services; or authorize the borrowing of money, except for loans to be repaid within 30 days. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form prescribed for ordinances generally, except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing the emergency in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted, with or without amendment, or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of at least two commission members shall be required for adoption. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand repealed 30 days following the date upon which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency continues to exist. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
Sec. 3.19. - Codes.
(a)
As may be consistent with law, the city commission may adopt building, housing, property maintenance, plumbing, electrical, gas, mechanical, or fire codes or any other standard codes of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally except that:
(1)
The requirements of subsection (b) of section 3.16 of this charter for distribution and filing of copies of the ordinance shall be construed to include copies of any code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance; and
(2)
A copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the city clerk pursuant to section 3.20 of this charter.
(b)
Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations shall be made available by the city clerk for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
Sec. 3.20. - Ordinance book; codification of ordinances; availability of laws.
(a)
The city clerk shall authenticate by his or her signature and record in full in a properly indexed book kept for that purpose all ordinances adopted by the city commission.
(b)
The city shall provide for the preparation of a codification of ordinances of the city as required by law.
(c)
The city commission shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to this charter to be printed promptly following its adoption, and the printed ordinances and charter amendments shall be made available for purchase by the public at reasonable prices to be fixed by the city commission. The ordinances shall be printed in substantially the same style as the codification then in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation within the codification. The city commission shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable for reproduction and distribution of any changes in or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included or adopted by reference in the codification.
Sec. 3.21. - City manager; appointment; qualifications; compensation.
By a majority vote, the city commission shall appoint a city manager for an indefinite term or a term prescribed by the city commission and shall fix his or her compensation. The manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of his or her executive and administrative qualifications, with special reference to actual experience in or knowledge of accepted practice in respect to the duties of his or her office. The appointee need not be a resident of the city. No member of the city commission shall receive such appointment while in office, nor within one year after the expiration of such member's term.
Sec. 3.22. - Acting city manager.
By letter filed with the city clerk, the city manager shall designate, subject to the approval of the city commission, a qualified city administrative officer to exercise the powers and perform the duties of the city manager during his or her temporary absence or disability. During such absence or disability, the city commission may revoke such designation at any time and appoint another officer of the city to serve until the manager shall return or his or her disability shall cease.
Sec. 3.23. - Powers and duties of the city manager.
The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city. He or she shall be responsible to the city commission for the administration of all city affairs placed in his or her charge by or under this charter. He or she shall have the following powers and duties:
(1)
He or she shall appoint and, when he or she deems it necessary for the good of the city, suspend or remove all city employees and administrative officers, except as otherwise provided by law, this charter, or personnel ordinances adopted pursuant to this charter. His or her appointments of the heads of city departments shall be subject to approval by a vote of a majority of the city commission;
(2)
He or she shall direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices, and agencies of the city, except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law;
(3)
He or she shall attend all city commission meetings and shall have the right to take part in the discussion, but he or she may not vote. The city manager shall be entitled to notice of all regular and special meetings of the city commission;
(4)
He or she shall see that all laws, provisions of this charter, and acts of the city commission subject to enforcement by him or her, or by officers subject to his or her direction and supervision, are faithfully executed;
(5)
He or she shall prepare and submit the annual operating budget and capital budget to the city commission, together with a message describing the important features, and be responsible for its administration after adoption;
(6)
He or she shall submit to the city commission and make available to the public a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the city as of the end of each fiscal year;
(7)
He or she shall make such other reports as the city commission may require concerning the operations of city departments, offices, and agencies subject to his or her direction and supervision;
(8)
Except as may otherwise be provided by law or this charter, he or she shall establish powers and duties of, and shall recommend to the city commission a standard schedule of pay for, each appointive office and position in the city service, including minimum, intermediate, and maximum rates of pay;
(9)
He or she shall recommend to the city commission, from time to time, adoption of such measures as may be deemed necessary or expedient for the health, safety, or welfare of the inhabitants of the city or for the improvement of administrative services;
(10)
He or she may consolidate or combine offices, positions, departments, or units under his or her jurisdiction, with the approval of the city commission; the city manager may be the head of one or more departments;
(11)
He or she shall see that all laws and ordinances are duly enforced;
(12)
He or she shall investigate the affairs of the city or any department or division thereof. He or she shall investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the administration of the government of the city and in regard to service maintained by the public utilities in the city, and shall see that all franchises, permits, and privileges granted by the city are faithfully observed;
(13)
He or she shall keep the city commission fully advised as to the financial condition and future needs of the city and shall make such recommendations to the city commission concerning the affairs of the city as he or she deems desirable; and
(14)
He or she shall perform other such duties as are specified in this charter or as may be required by the city commission.
Sec. 3.24. - Commission interference with administration.
Neither the city commission nor any of its members shall direct or request any person's appointment to or removal from office by the city manager or any of the manager's subordinates, nor in any manner take part in the appointment or removal of officers and employees in the administrative services of the city. Except for the purpose of inquiries and investigations under section 3.12, the city commission or its members shall deal with city officers and employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of the city manager solely through the city manager, and neither the city commission nor its members shall give orders to any such officer or employee, either publicly or privately.
Sec. 3.25. - Emergencies.
In case of an accident, disaster, or other circumstance creating a public emergency, the city manager may award contracts and make purchases for the purpose of meeting such emergency, but he or she shall file promptly with the city commission a certificate showing such emergency and the necessity for such action, together with an itemized account of all expenditures.
Sec. 3.26. - Bond.
The city manager shall furnish a surety bond to be approved by the city commission. Such bond shall be conditioned on the faithful performance of all of the manager's duties. The premium of the bond shall be paid by the city.
Sec. 3.27. - Compensation.
The city manager shall receive such compensation as prescribed by the city commission.
Sec. 3.28. - Newspaper advertising.
The city commission may designate a newspaper having a general circulation in the city as the official legal organ or gazette for the city, in which all notices, other business, marshal's sales, and proceedings of the city commission shall be published. All notices or other advertisements published in such newspaper shall be legal and binding upon all persons concerned as if such advertisements were published in the newspaper in which the sheriff's advertisements in and for Gwinnett County and Hall County appear, except those cases in which the laws or Constitution of this state require publications in the newspaper in which sheriff's advertisements appear.
