ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE

Sec. 6.10. - Property tax.
The city commission may assess, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all taxable real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, of providing governmental services, for the repayment of principal and interest on general obligations, and for any other public purpose as determined by the city council [commission] in its discretion.
Sec. 6.11. - Millage.
(a)
The city commission, by ordinance, shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax, a due date, and the time period within which these taxes must be paid.
(b)
The millage rate levied pursuant to this article shall not exceed 22½ mills, except that such limitation shall not apply with respect to any ad valorem tax levied for the purpose of payment of any general obligation debt of the city.
(c)
The city commission, by ordinance, may provide for the payment of these taxes by installments or in one lump sum, as well as authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
Sec. 6.12. - Occupation taxes and regulatory fees.
The city commission, by ordinance, shall have the power to levy and to provide for the collection of such occupation taxes and regulatory fees as are not denied by law on privileges, occupations, trades, professions, and any other lawful subjects thereof, and may regulate the same. Such taxes and fees may be levied on individuals, firms, corporations, and other entities that transact business in the city or that practice or offer to practice any profession or calling within the city to the extent that they have, in accordance with law, a sufficient nexus to the city. The city commission shall provide for the manner and method of payment of such taxes and fees. The city commission may classify businesses, occupations, professions, or callings for the purpose of such taxes and fees in any way which may be lawful, and may compel the payment of such taxes and fees as provided in section 6.18 of this charter.
Sec. 6.13. - Licenses and permits.
The city commission, by ordinance, shall have the power to require any individual, firm, corporation, or other entity that transacts business in the city or that practices or offers to practice any profession or calling within the city to obtain a license or permit for such activity from the city and to pay a reasonable fee for such license or permit where such activities are not exclusively regulated by general law. The city may also regulate such activities and shall provide for the manner and method of payment of such fees. Fees under this section, if unpaid, shall be collected as provided in section 6.18 of this charter. The city commission, by ordinance, may establish reasonable requirements for obtaining or keeping such licenses as the public health, safety, and welfare necessitate. The city commission may revoke any such license or permit after due process for failure to pay any city taxes or fees or for other cause determined by the city commission.
Sec. 6.14. - Franchises.
The city commission shall have the power to grant franchises and rights-of-way for the use of the city's streets, roads, alleys, bridges, and viaducts for the purposes of railroads, street railways, electric companies, gas companies, transportation companies, telecommunications companies, other public utilities and organizations, and for private use. The city commission shall determine the duration and terms of franchises, whether they shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration for such franchises; provided, however, that no franchise shall be granted for a longer period than may be specified by the Constitution and general laws of this state, and no franchise shall be granted unless the city receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The city commission shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the city clerk in a registration book kept by him or her. The city commission may provide, by ordinance, for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
Sec. 6.15. - Service fees.
The city commission, by ordinance, shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewers, sanitary and health services, or any other services provided or made available inside or outside the corporate limits of the city for the total cost to the city of providing or making available such services. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in section 6.18 of this charter.
Sec. 6.16. - Roads.
The city commission, by ordinance, shall have the power to assess, charge, and collect the costs of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, or sewers or other utility mains and appurtenances from the abutting property owners under such terms and conditions as are reasonable. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in section 6.18 of this charter.
Sec. 6.17. - Other taxes.
This city shall be empowered to levy any other tax now or hereafter allowed by law, and the specific mention of any right, power, or authority in this article shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of this city to govern its local affairs.
Sec. 6.18. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The city commission, by ordinance, may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the city under sections 6.10 through 6.17 of this charter by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by law. Such means shall include, but shall not be limited to, providing for the dates when the taxes or fees are due, late penalties or interest, issuance and execution of fi. fa., creation and priority of liens, making delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes or fees imposed, and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions.
Sec. 6.19. - Borrowing.
The city commission shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized under this charter or the laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuance by municipalities in effect at the time that an issue is undertaken.
Sec. 6.20. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the city commission as state law now or hereafter provides. Such bonds shall be paid out of any revenue produced by the project, program, or venture for which they are issued.
Sec. 6.21. - Loans.
The city may obtain short-term loans and must repay such loans not later than December 31 of each year, unless otherwise provided by law.
Sec. 6.22. - Accounting and budgeting.
The city commission shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. This fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of every office, department, agency, and activity of the city government.
Sec. 6.23. - Budget ordinance.
The city commission shall, by ordinance, provide the procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual operating budget, a capital improvement program, and a capital budget, including requirements as to the scope, content, and form of such budgets and program.
Sec. 6.24. - Operating budget.
The city manager shall submit to the city commission a proposed operating budget for each ensuing fiscal year. The budget shall be accompanied by a message from the city manager containing a statement of the general fiscal policies of the city, the important features of the budget, explanations of major changes recommended for the next fiscal year, a general summary of the budget, and such other comments and information as he or she may deem pertinent. The operating budget, the capital improvements program, the capital budget, the budget message, and all supporting documents shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and shall be open to public inspection.
Sec. 6.25. - Adoption of budget.
(a)
The city commission may amend the operating budget proposed by the city manager, except that the budget, as finally amended and adopted, must provide for all expenditures required by state law or by this charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year. The total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves, and revenues.
(b)
After the conducting of a budget hearing, the city commission shall adopt the final operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the beginning of each fiscal year. If the city commission fails to adopt the budget by such date, the amounts appropriated for operation for the preceding fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly, until such time as the city commission adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Adoption of the budget shall take the form of an appropriations ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose, or activity as set out in the budget preparation ordinance adopted pursuant to section 6.23 of this charter.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted operating budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for such unit, and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise unencumbered balance of the appropriations or allotments thereof to which it is chargeable.
Sec. 6.26. - Levy of taxes.
Following adoption of the operating budget, the city commission shall levy, by a majority vote of the city commission, such taxes as are necessary. The taxes and tax rates shall be such that reasonable estimates of revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, fund balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual operating budget for defraying the expense of the general government of the city.
Sec. 6.27. - Changes in budget.
The city commission, by majority vote, may make changes in the appropriations contained in the current operating budget at any regular meeting or at any special meeting called for such purposes.
Sec. 6.28. - Capital improvements.
No appropriations provided for in a prior capital improvements program and capital budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriations were made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; however, the city manager may submit amendments to the capital improvements program and the capital budget at any time during the fiscal year, accompanied by his or her recommendations. Any such amendments to the capital improvements program and the capital budget shall become effective only upon adoption by majority vote of the city commission.
Sec. 6.29. - Audits.
There shall be an annual independent audit of all city accounts, funds, and financial transactions by a certified public accountant selected by the city commission. The audit shall be conducted according to generally accepted accounting principles. Any audit of any funds by the state or federal government may be accepted as satisfying the requirements of this section. Copies of all audit reports shall be available, at printing costs, to the public.
Sec. 6.30. - Procurement and property management.
No contract with the city shall be binding on the city unless:
(1)
It is in writing;
(2)
It is drawn, or submitted to and reviewed by, the city attorney and, as a matter of course, is signed by him or her to indicate such drafting or review; and
(3)
It is made or approved by the city commission, and such approval is entered in the city commission journal pursuant to section 3.14 of this charter.
Sec. 6.31. - Purchasing.
The city commission shall prescribe procedures for a system of centralized purchasing for the city.
Sec. 6.32. - Sale of property.
(a)
The city commission may sell and convey any real, personal, or mixed property owned or held by the city for governmental or other purposes as now or hereafter provided by law.
(b)
The city commission may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon request by the city manager and adoption of a resolution finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending, or widening any street, avenue, alley, or other public place of the city, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the city commission may authorize the city manager to execute and deliver in the name of the city a deed conveying such cutoff or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights-of-way of such street, avenue, alley, or other public place when such exchange is deemed to be in the best interest of the city. All deeds and conveyances heretofore or hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest that the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
Sec. 6.33. - Deposits.
The city shall select some chartered bank or banks or other chartered depository financial institution or institutions as a city depository or depositories, in which shall be deposited all city funds that are not otherwise lawfully invested.
