Chapter 4 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
modified
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Open container means any container of any alcoholic beverage which is immediately capable of being consumed from, or the seal of which has been broken.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, cooperative, nonprofit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary or other group or combination acting as a unit, body politic or political subdivision, whether public, private or quasi-public.
Wholesaler, wholesale dealer and wholesale distributor mean any person who sells alcoholic beverages to other wholesale dealers, to retail dealers, or to retail consumption dealers.
(b)
The definitions set forth in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2 (Alcoholic Beverages - Definitions), shall be effective as definitions of the words, terms and phrases used in this chapter. All words, terms and phrases used herein, other than those specifically defined elsewhere in this chapter, shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2, and shall have the same scope and effect that the same words, terms and phrases have where used in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
(Code 2003, § 6-1)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
Sec. 4-2. - Sale on election days.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this chapter, the sale of alcoholic beverages on local election days is authorized and permitted so long as such sales are in compliance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20.
(Code 2003, § 6-2; Res. of 3-2-1990)
State Law reference— Authority of county to prohibit by ordinance the sale of alcoholic beverages on any election days, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20.
Sec. 4-3. - Open containers in vehicles.
(a)
It is unlawful for any person to possess an open container of an alcoholic beverage while operating a vehicle in the county or while a passenger in or on a vehicle being operated in the county.
(b)
An open container shall be considered to be in the possession of the operator of a vehicle if the container is not in the possession of a passenger and it is not located in a locked glove compartment, locked trunk, or other locked non-passenger area of the vehicle.
(c)
An open container shall be considered to be in the possession of a passenger of a vehicle if the container is in the physical control of the passenger.
(d)
This section shall not apply to any passenger in the passenger area of a motor vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily for the transportation of persons for compensation or in the living quarters of a motor home or house trailer.
(e)
Any person who violates this section shall be punished as is provided for misdemeanor violations.
(Code 2003, § 6-3)
Secs. 4-4—4-24. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LICENSE[2]

Sec. 4-25. - Compliance with law.
No person shall engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages in the county without first complying with the rules and regulations set out in this chapter. In addition to the rules and regulations set out in this chapter, each licensee doing business in the county under this article shall comply with all state laws, federal laws, and rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner relating to the sale and distribution of distilled spirits in the state, and any violation of such laws, rules and regulations shall subject such licensee to immediate suspension or revocation of his retail alcoholic beverages license and also shall subject such licensee to criminal prosecution by the proper authority as provided by law and the ordinances of the county.
(Code 2003, § 6-31)
Sec. 4-26. - Residency.
No retail alcoholic beverages license shall be granted to any person unless such person is of legal age and has been a resident of the county for a minimum of one year prior to filing an application for such license. The same requirements apply for a corporation.
(Code 2003, § 6-32)
Sec. 4-27. - Application.
(a)
Application for a retail alcoholic beverages license shall be made on forms furnished by the board of commissioners.
(b)
In addition to the completion and submission of application forms as required by the board of commissioners, each applicant shall attach thereto a completed application form with all attachments and requirements for a state license.
(c)
All applications for a retail alcoholic beverages license shall be presented in person.
(Code 2003, § 6-33)
Sec. 4-28. - Bond.
Before any retail alcoholic beverages license is granted, the applicant must post with the board of commissioners, along with his application, a personal performance bond; such bond shall be conditioned requiring the faithful observance and performance by the licensee of the rules and regulations contained in this article. Upon the violation of this article or any part thereof, the amount of the bond to be forfeited will be determined by the seriousness of the violations as determined by the board of commissioners after a hearing is held by the board of commissioners after a three-day written notice is given the violator. Such bond shall be payable to the county in an amount as established by the board of commissioners from time to time, shall be approved by the board of commissioners and shall be executed in a form to be furnished.
(Code 2003, § 6-34)
Sec. 4-29. - Notice of application.
A notice of each application for an alcoholic beverages license shall be advertised in a newspaper of general circulation within the county once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the meeting of the board of commissioners that the application is to be acted upon.
(Code 2003, § 6-35)
Sec. 4-30. - Fees.
The annual fee for a retail alcoholic beverages license shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk, and shall be paid prior to the issuance of any license. Such fee shall accompany the application and shall be either in cash or certified check.
(Code 2003, § 6-36)
State Law reference— Payment of license fees for manufacture, sales, etc., of alcoholic beverages required; amount, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-4-50, 3-5-42, 3-5-43.
Sec. 4-31. - Character of applicant.
(a)
Any applicant for a retail alcoholic beverages license must be of good character, and all managers, clerks or other employees shall be of like character or such application will not be considered. Corporation applicants shall be of good business reputation. The standards upon which the board of commissioners may base a determination of the applicant's character may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
A person found by the board of commissioners to have been guilty of the violation of any felony under federal or state law; provided, however, that the provisions of this subsection shall not apply to the renewal of licenses existing on the date of adoption for the ordinance from which this provision was derived, or to subsequent renewals thereof, except as to violations occurring after the passage of such date;
(2)
A person who has been convicted of the violation of any federal or state law or regulation respecting the manufacture, possession or sale of any alcoholic beverage or who shall have forfeited his bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such violation;
(3)
A person who is the previous holder of an alcoholic beverage license and is, in the judgment and discretion of the board of commissioners, an unfit person to have a license because of the manner in which he conducted business thereunder as to the necessity for unusual police observation and inspection in order to prevent the violation of any law or regulation relating to such business;
(4)
Where any alcohol license has been revoked or suspended, no further alcohol license shall be issued to the holder of such revoked or suspended license for a period of 12 months from the date of the revocation or suspension;
(5)
For a location at which a previous alcoholic beverage license has been revoked or suspended, no further alcohol license shall be issued at such location for a period of 12 months from the date of the suspension or revocation;
(6)
For a partnership, if any member of the partnership would be disqualified under this section; or
(7)
For a corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof would be disqualified under this section.
(b)
No applicant for a license who has a criminal record, except minor traffic offenses, shall be granted a license.
(c)
The board of commissioners, in its discretion, may consider any extenuating circumstances which may reflect favorably or unfavorably on the applicant, application, or the proposed location of the business. If, in the board's judgment, circumstances are such that the granting of the license would not be in the best interest of the general public, such circumstances may be grounds for denying the application.
(Code 2003, § 6-37)
Sec. 4-32. - Location restricted.
No retail alcoholic beverage license shall be granted to any person unless the entire business premises of the proposed location is situated beyond 200 yards from the property line of any school grounds or college campus, the same to be measured by way of the nearest traveled road, street or highway, as provided by law. Each application for a retail alcoholic beverages license shall include a scale drawing of the location of the proposed premises showing the distance to the nearest church or school or a certificate of a registered surveyor that such location complies with this article with reference to this section.
(Code 2003, § 6-39; Ord. of 1-13-2009)
Sec. 4-33. - Term of license; renewal.
A retail alcoholic beverages license shall be valid only for the calendar year indicated thereon and renewable each year thereafter so long as the licensee has not violated any of the rules contained under this article, or state law, for the preceding calendar year license. If violations have occurred, the board of commissioners reserves the right to refuse to renew the license solely at the discretion of the board. A licensee who desires to continue in business during the next subsequent calendar year must remit the requisite fee the following year before December 15 of the preceding year.
(Code 2003, § 6-40)
Sec. 4-34. - Separate license for separate place of business.
A separate retail alcoholic beverages license shall be required for each place of business.
(Code 2003, § 6-41)
Sec. 4-35. - Restrictions for building to be used.
No retail alcoholic beverages license shall be issued to any person unless the building in which the business will be located is complete and detailed plans of such building and outside premises are attached to the application, or unless proposed plans and specifications and a building permit of a proposed building to be built are attached to the application. The completed building or the proposed building shall comply with the ordinances of the county, the regulations of the state revenue commissioner and the laws of the state. The proposed building shall also be subject to final inspection and approval when completed by the building inspector, if the county employs an inspector. Each building in which the business will be located shall contain sufficient lighting so that the building itself and the premises on all sides of the building are readily visible at all times from the front of the street on which the building is located. Each applicant for a retail alcoholic beverages license shall attach to his application evidence of ownership of the building or proposed building or a copy of the lease if the applicant is leasing the building.
(Code 2003, § 6-42)
Sec. 4-36. - Manner of sale.
All licensed retailers shall sell or offer to sell in the original unbroken package only and shall sell no package containing less than one-half pint.
(Code 2003, § 6-43)
Sec. 4-37. - Consumption on premises.
(a)
No beverages of any kind may be opened or consumed in a place of business.
(b)
All nightclubs and bars operating with a legal license within the county shall not be subject to subsection (a) of this section concerning consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises or to any other provision contained under this chapter as it pertains to the consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises or having an open container. It is expressly understood that nightclubs and bars have the right to allow consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises so long as they are properly licensed.
(Code 2003, § 6-44)
Sec. 4-38. - Locale of sale.
No retailer shall sell or deliver any alcoholic beverages to any person except in such retailer's place of business.
(Code 2003, § 6-45)
Sec. 4-39. - Hours, days of operation.
(a)
No retailer who opens his place of business on the days listed hereinafter in this section shall sale or offer for sale any alcoholic beverages at any of the following times but it shall be permissible for said retailer to remain open for business if said retailer offers items for sale other than alcoholic beverages excluding package stores which are expressly prohibited from opening on any of the following dates or times:
(1)
At any time on Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day or Sundays; or
(2)
At any time in violation of a local ordinance or regulation or of a special order of the board of commissioners.
(b)
In addition, all licensed retail alcoholic beverage establishments that sell or offer for sale any alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises are expressly prohibited from being open on Saturdays after 12:00 midnight.
(Code 2003, § 6-46; Res. of 5-12-2003, § 1(I))
Sec. 4-40. - Sales to certain persons prohibited.
No retailer shall give, sell or offer to sell any alcoholic beverages to any person who is under the age of 21 years, or who is noticeably intoxicated, or who is of unsound mind, or who is a habitual drunkard whose intemperate habits are known to such retailer. At any time, proper identification showing that the person to whom the alcoholic beverage is sold is 21 years of age or older shall be considered the only legal proof of age which would relieve a person making a sale from responsibility thereof. For purposes of this section, the term "proper identification" means any document issued by a governmental agency containing a description of the person, such person's photograph, or both, and giving such person's date of birth and includes, without being limited to, a passport, military identification card, driver's license, or an identification card authorized under state law. The term "proper identification" shall not include a birth certificate and shall not include any traffic citation and complaint form.
(Code 2003, § 6-47)
State Law reference— Furnishing alcoholic beverages to intoxicated persons prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-22.
Sec. 4-41. - Storage of alcoholic beverages.
No licensed retailer shall keep any alcoholic beverages stored in any bonded or other type warehouse in the county, nor shall he enter into any type of arrangement whereby alcoholic beverages ordered by him is stored for him by any licensed wholesaler. A retailer shall keep no inventory or stock of alcoholic beverages at any place except his licensed place of business, and within his licensed place of business his storage space for alcoholic beverages shall be immediately adjacent to the room in which he is licensed to do business.
(Code 2003, § 6-49)
Sec. 4-42. - Transfer prohibited.
No retail alcoholic beverages license shall be transferable or assignable to any person or other location. If a licensed business is sold or closed, it shall be the duty of the licensee to immediately surrender his license to the board of commissioners.
(Code 2003, § 6-50)
Sec. 4-43. - Notice, knowledge of article provisions.
All holders of a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall keep a copy of this article in his premises and shall instruct any person working there with respect to the terms hereof and each licensee or his agents selling alcoholic beverages shall at all times be familiar with the terms hereof. The licensee shall be held responsible for any acts of his employees in any violation of this article, the laws of the state or the rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner.
(Code 2003, § 6-51)
Sec. 4-44. - Availability for inspection.
The business premises of the holder of a retail alcoholic beverages license for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall be open to inspection at any and all times by officers or officials authorized to conduct such inspections.
(Code 2003, § 6-52)
Sec. 4-45. - False statements.
The making of any statement on an application for a license to sell alcoholic beverages which shall be later found to be false shall constitute grounds for revocation of such license.
(Code 2003, § 6-53)
Sec. 4-46. - Employment of minors.
No person under 21 years of age shall be employed in any capacity in any place of business licensed under this article. It shall not be prohibited for a minor to work in a place which sells alcoholic beverages such as a grocery store, convenience store, or other type of establishment which sells alcoholic beverages for consumption off premises. The prohibition against those under 21 years of age working at a place which sells alcoholic beverages applies only to package liquor stores, nightclubs, and bars.
(Code 2003, § 6-54)
Sec. 4-47. - Prohibited activities.
There shall be no gambling, betting, games of chance, punchboards, slot machines, lotteries or tickets or chances, except all lottery tickets and lottery games produced and approved by the state lottery, in any premises licensed under this article, or the operation of any schemes for hazarding money or any other thing of value in any licensed retailer's place of business or in any room adjoining such place of business, owned, leased or controlled by the licensee. Any violation of this section shall be cause for suspension or revocation of the license.
(Code 2003, § 6-55)
Sec. 4-48. - Display.
Licenses under this article shall be displayed prominently at all times on the premises for which they were issued.
(Code 2003, § 6-56)
Sec. 4-49. - Violations, subject to revocation and punishment.
Any person violating the rules and regulations set out in this article shall be subject to revocation of his license and punishment as prescribed by the board of commissioners.
(Code 2003, § 6-57)
Secs. 4-50—4-71. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EXCISE TAXES

Sec. 4-72. - Malt beverage excise tax; imposition; collection.
(a)
There is imposed and levied a specific tax upon all retail dealers in malt beverages within the county limits as follows:
(1)
Where malt beverages, commonly known as tap or draft beer, are sold in or from a barrel or bulk container, a tax of $6.00 on each container sold containing not more than 15½ gallons and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of 15½ gallons.
(2)
Where malt beverages are sold in bottles, cans or other containers, except barrel or bulk containers, a tax of $0.05 per 12 ounces and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of 12 ounces.
(b)
Each distributor, wholesale dealer or manufacturer selling, shipping or delivering malt beverages to any retail dealer in the county shall collect the excise tax as set forth in subsection (a) of this section and shall remit the tax to the county not later than the tenth of the month following collection. Each monthly remittance will be accompanied by invoice copies of all sales or deliveries to all retailers in the county for resale in the county, together with the sworn affidavit of such distributor, wholesale dealer or manufacturer, that the attached invoices are true, correct and complete.
(Code 2003, § 6-91)
State Law reference— Imposition of excise tax on malt beverages required, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80 et seq.
Sec. 4-73. - Wine excise tax; imposition; collection.
(a)
In addition to the annual retail wine license fee, there is levied an excise tax computed at the rate of $0.22 per liter, and a proportionate tax on all fractional parts of a liter which shall be paid to the board of commissioners on all wine sold, displayed or stored in the county. The tax shall be collected by wholesale distributors and paid to the board of commissioners by the wholesale distributors on all wine sold to retailers in the county. Each wholesale distributor selling, shipping, or in any way delivering wine to any retailer shall collect the excise tax at the time of delivery and shall remit the tax together with a summary of all deliveries to each retailer on or before the tenth day of the following month.
(b)
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any retailer to possess, own, hold, store, display or sell any wine on which the tax has not been paid.
(c)
Each wholesale distributor shall furnish to the board of commissioners a summary of all purchase invoices for wine sold to each retailer in the county on or before the 15th day of each month following such purchases. The invoices shall show the amount of excise tax paid.
(Code 2003, § 6-92)
State Law reference— Authorization to levy tax on wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-60.
Sec. 4-74. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person who shall submit a return required by this article which is false or fraudulent, or who shall assist any person to evade the payment of any license tax provided in this article, shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-19.
(Code 2003, § 6-93)
Sec. 4-75. - Retailers' records.
All retail dealers in alcoholic beverages, and all persons selling alcoholic beverages at retail, shall keep a complete and correct record of all purchases of alcoholic beverages, and shall require all persons from whom they purchase alcoholic beverages to furnish and deliver to them, at the time of delivery of such beverages, a correct invoice of purchase, which invoice shall be kept and preserved by the retailer at his place of business for a period of six months from the date of purchase. Such invoices and all records of retailers of alcoholic beverages shall be subject to inspection by any authorized representative of the county. All records of purchase shall be kept a period of at least three years from the date of such purchase or sale before being destroyed.
(Code 2003, § 6-94)
Sec. 4-76. - Possession of untaxed beverages.
It shall be unlawful for any retailer to possess, own, hold, store, display or sell any alcoholic beverages on which such tax has not been paid.
(Code 2003, § 6-95)
Sec. 4-77. - Compensation of wholesaler.
Each wholesaler shall be paid three percent of the amount of taxes collected as reimbursement for collection of such tax.
(Code 2003, § 6-96)
Sec. 4-78. - Monthly summary of sales.
Each wholesale distributor shall furnish to the board of commissioners a summary of all purchase invoices for alcoholic beverages sold to each retailer in the county on or before the tenth of each month following such purchases. Such invoices shall show the amount of excise tax paid.
(Code 2003, § 6-97)
Sec. 4-79. - Distilled spirits excise tax.
(a)
In addition to the annual retail alcoholic beverages license fee, there is levied an excise tax on the sale of distilled spirits by the drink computed at the rate of three percent of the charge to the public for the beverages.
(b)
The tax imposed by this section shall not apply to the sale of fermented beverages made in whole or in part from malt or any similar fermented beverage.
(Code 2003, § 6-98)
State Law reference— Authority of county to impose excise tax on sale of distilled spirits by the drink, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-131.
