Chapter 26 - ROADS[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - Design standards.
The county adopts the state department of transportation's minimum design standards for hydraulics and roadway geometrics for all new and reconstructive roadway projects.
(Code 2003, § 38-1; Res. of 4-29-1998)
Sec. 26-2. - Franchise fee for use of streets.
The governing authority is hereby authorized to initiate and collect a franchise fee on all public electric light or power companies, gas companies, telephone and telegraph companies, and other public utilities for the use and occupancy of the streets of the county for the purpose of rendering utility services, upon such conditions and for such time the governing authority of the municipal corporation may deem wise and subject to the constitution and the general laws of the state (O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7)(A)).
(Ord. of 1-13-2009)
Secs. 26-3—26-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TRANSPORTING FOREST PRODUCTS

Sec. 26-23. - Regulations.
The language contained in O.C.G.A. §§ 12-6-23 and 12-6-24 is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if fully set out, and to the extent O.C.G.A. § 12-6-24 requires an ordinance or resolution adopting this suggested language contained within O.C.G.A. § 12-6-24, the adoption of the ordinance from which this section is derived and provisions shall constitute an ordinance or resolution as contemplated by said O.C.G.A. § 12-6-24.
(Res. of 5-12-2003, §1(K))
Sec. 26-24. - Timber harvesting.
The provisions of O.C.G.A. § 12-6-24 are invoked and applied within the unincorporated areas of the county and all such persons engaged in the harvesting of standing timber within the unincorporated areas of the county are hereby required to comply with the provisions thereof.
(Res. of 12-13-2005)
Sec. 26-25. - Purpose.
Whereas the purpose of this article is to provide procedures governing persons, firms, businesses, companies and corporations engaged in timber harvesting in the county and to provide for the issuance of permits to such operators to ensure that the county has knowledge of all timber harvesting within the county so that appropriate ad valorem taxes shall be assessed to the owner.
Sec. 26-26. - Notice of timber harvesting.
Written notice within 48 hours of beginning of timber harvesting operations shall be required of any person or firm harvesting timber for each separate tract to be harvested. Notice may be submitted in person to the Webster County Commission Office; by facsimile to the Webster County Commission Office, such notice consists of:
(1)
A statement as to whether the timber will be removed pursuant to a lump sum sale, per unit sale or owner harvest.
(2)
The name, address, and daytime telephone number of the timber seller.
(3)
The name, business address, business telephone number, and nighttime or emergency telephone number of the person or firm buying the timber.
(4)
The name, business address, business telephone number, and nighttime or emergency telephone number of the person or firm harvesting the timber.
(5)
A map, aerial photo, or a drawing of the tract to show the specific road or roads to be used to access the tract.
Sec. 26-27. - Standards for operations.
modified
(a)
Prevention of contamination.
(1)
Contamination of public roads with mud, dirt, or debris from timber operations is prohibited. All harvesting operations shall cease if there is a contamination of a public road until all contamination has been removed.
(2)
A temporary exit may be installed and maintained for any timber harvesting operation in the county in such a way to prevent contamination on county roads.
(b)
Additional requirements.
(1)
All timber harvesting operations must post or cause to be posted, along the public road from which the operations enter and exit, road signs that state "TRUCKS ENTERING HIGHWAY."
(2)
No timber operator or person shall park or leave unattended a truck or other motor vehicle or trailer upon the right-of-way of any county road.
Secs. 26-28—26-51. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DRIVEWAYS

Sec. 26-52. - Permit required for installation.
Before installing any driveway or means of ingress and egress to any property abutting a county road or county-maintained road, the owner or the person installing such driveway shall make application to the board of commissioners, through its building inspection department, for a permit authorizing such installation.
(Code 2003, § 38-121)
Sec. 26-53. - Permit provisions.
The permit issued under this article shall specify the location of the driveway, the width of the driveway, the size culvert to be used, and other matters required for adequate drainage of the road in accordance with good engineering and road management practices. The permit may contain other reasonable conditions that the circumstances may warrant.
(Code 2003, § 38-122)
Sec. 26-54. - Minimum pipe sizes.
A minimum pipe size must be used for all driveway construction and for all cross drains under the road suitable to adequately handle water flow for the particular area in which construction occurs. The minimum pipe size which may be used for construction shall be established on a case-by-case basis by the county road department and each construction project must receive permission from the county road department prior to the placement of a pipe to include a designated minimum pipe size at the time of construction.
(Code 2003, § 38-123)
Sec. 26-55. - Responsibility of permittee.
Driveway construction and material shall be the responsibility of the owner or applicant for the permit.
(Code 2003, § 38-124)
Sec. 26-56. - Inspection of work.
All work shall be in conformity with the permit as granted and shall be subject to inspection by an authorized representative of the board of commissioners.
(Code 2003, § 38-125)
Secs. 26-57—26-85. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - GRADING AND DRAINAGE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 26-86. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Basement means a space having one-half or more of its floor-to-ceiling height below the average level of the adjoining ground and with a floor-to-ceiling height of not less than 6½ feet.
Building means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and intended for shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels.
Driveway grade means the grade of the centerline of a driveway measured at its steepest point.
Dwelling means any building or portion thereof which is designed for or used for residential purposes.
Easement means a grant by a property owner of the use of land for a specific purpose by the general public, a corporation or certain persons.
Gradient means slope.
Gradient formula means D = G × L/100, where D is the vertical difference in elevation in feet, L is horizontal distance in feet, and G is the slope or gradient expressed as a percent.
Infiltration means the use of pervious surfaces to allow rainfall to soak into the ground on site.
Intensity refers to the rate at which rain is falling at any given instant during the life of a rainfall event expressed in inches per hour.
Lot is defined in the county zoning regulations.
Lot lines means the lines bounding a lot.
Office means the county inspection department.
On site means the individual property within its property lines except for the provision of streets for vehicular access, and essential services and facilities at the site.
Open space means a yard area which is not used for or occupied by a driveway, off-street parking, loading space, drying yard or refuse storage space.
Owner means any individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation, trust, or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in the site.
Parcel is a general term including all plots of and with separate identification on the official tax appraisal maps. Parcels may or may not be lots, depending upon whether or not such parcels are created as herein provided.
Principal use means the primary purpose for which land or a building is used.
Public utilities means water, gas, sanitary and storm sewer, electrical, and communications lines and facilities, and improved drainage facilities.
Required means mandatory.
Return frequency refers to statistically expected time intervals between recurrences of a storm of an equal or greater intensity for a given duration.
Right-of-way means access over or across a particularly described property for a specific purpose.
Right-of-way line means the dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a contiguous right-of-way.
Sidewalk means that portion of on-site development that provides access through the site to the dwelling unit and includes walkways.
Street means a public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
Structure means anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a location on the ground.
Surface water means the surface drainage of water, its management, control, transportation, storage, and disposal.
Swale means a shallow linear depression with a parabolic cross section and gently sloped sides.
Variance means a modification of the literal provisions of this article when strict enforcement would cause undue hardship owing to conditions of the individual property on which the variance is sought.
Yard means a space on the same lot with a main building, such space being open, unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
(Code 2003, § 38-161)
Sec. 26-87. - Jurisdiction.
This article controls the grading and the drainage to be established thereby during the development of any portion of real property within the unincorporated portions of the county.
(Code 2003, § 38-162)
Sec. 26-88. - Enforcement.
In case of any violation or attempted violation of the provisions of this article, the county may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such violation or attempted violation including injunctive relief, and the county building inspector or authorized representative is authorized to issue citations for violations of this article.
(Code 2003, § 38-163)
Sec. 26-89. - General principles.
(a)
Drainage of surface water should be provided away from all sides of all buildings and off the lot in a manner that will:
(1)
Minimize the possibility of dampness in basements and crawl spaces;
(2)
Prevent adverse supporting soil behavior;
(3)
Prevent soil erosion; and
(4)
Prevent standing or ponding of water on the site.
(b)
Walks, driveways, retaining walls and other improvements should be constructed so as not to interfere with drainage. Required walks should not be used as drainage channels. Site grading and drainage should:
(1)
Provide suitable access from the abutting street to the dwelling and any accessory buildings;
(2)
Provide immediate diversion of water away from buildings and off the site;
(3)
Avoid concentrating runoff onto neighboring properties where erosion or other damage may be caused;
(4)
Provide usable outdoor space for occupants; and
(5)
Minimize erosion.
(c)
The Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975 (O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq.), where applicable, shall apply.
(Code 2003, § 38-164)
Sec. 26-90. - Access to dwellings.
(a)
Each dwelling shall have safe and convenient pedestrian access from the street to the dwelling.
(b)
Each dwelling shall have convenient access for service and the provision of utilities.
(Code 2003, § 38-165)
Sec. 26-91. - Groundwater hazards.
Buildings, structures, paved areas, driveways, and utilities shall be located on the site in such a way as to reasonably minimize groundwater hazards.
(Code 2003, § 38-166)
Sec. 26-92. - Drainage and flood hazard exposure.
(a)
The minimum grades at buildings and at openings into basements shall be at elevations which prevent adverse effects by water or water entering basements from flood levels.
(b)
Protection shall be equivalent to a 50-year return frequency after full development. The floor elevations of all habitable space shall be above runoff and flood levels equivalent to a 100-year return frequency after full development.
(Code 2003, § 38-167)
Sec. 26-93. - Special conditions.
When special conditions exist or arise during construction which were unforeseen and which necessitate precautionary or hazard mitigating measures, the inspection office shall require corrective work to mitigate potential adverse effects from the special conditions as may be necessary. Special conditions include rock formations, unstable soils or slopes, high groundwater levels, springs, or other conditions which may adversely effect a property. It shall be the property owner's responsibility to ensure proper design, construction and satisfactory performance where such are present.
(Code 2003, § 38-168)
Sec. 26-94. - Variances.
Variances from the requirements of this article may be granted by the inspection office upon the submission of such information as may be required by it. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the inspection office may appeal such decision to the board of commissioners.
(Code 2003, § 38-169)
Secs. 26-95—26-116. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - FINISHED GRADING

Sec. 26-117. - General conformance standard.
All unpaved lot areas, except those preserved in an appropriate natural condition, should be fine graded to provide smooth even surfaces conforming to the elevations specified in this division. All debris should be removed prior to fine grading.
(Code 2003, § 38-191)
Sec. 26-118. - Minimum protective slope.
All walls and foundations of buildings and any water-supply well should be provided with protective slopes to ensure immediate drainage and diversion of surface water away from these structures and off the site.
(Code 2003, § 38-192)
Sec. 26-119. - Minimum specifications.
(a)
The finish grading should:
(1)
Provide a minimum fall of six inches away from the structure in ten feet, except as restricted by side lot lines or other major considerations, without regard to soil type or ground frost conditions. The horizontal length of such slopes may be reduced as necessary at building corners and side yards.
(2)
Provide at least six inches in 25 feet (two percent gradient) in all other unpaved areas, subject to ground frost, expansive soils, or collapsible soils, or at least three inches in 25 feet (one percent gradient) in unpaved areas not subject to such conditions.
(b)
If minimum slopes cannot be attained, paved gutters or other drainage structures may be installed as required by the inspection office.
(c)
All unpaved areas should slope continuously at the gradients provided in subsection (a)(2) of this section to lower elevations off site, or to a drainage structure on the lot.
(d)
Drainage swales or valleys formed by intersecting slopes should have adequate depth, width and longitudinal gradient to carry away the maximum predictable volume of stormwater runoff based on a 100-year return frequency. In no instance shall swales be positioned over sewage infiltration fields.
(1)
Gradients of unpaved swales should not be less than required in subsection (a)(2) of this section for other unpaved areas.
(2)
Surface erosion protection should be in place to prevent accumulation of water in critical drainage swales.
(e)
Where catchbasins or inlets are installed, other than at required basement areaways, finish grade elevations of adjoining areas should provide for emergency surface overflow so that, in the event of failure of catchbasins or inlets, buildings and window wells (or areaways) will be protected against flooding.
(f)
Areaways for basement windows, entrances, and garage entrances should be provided with effective drainage facilities. Catchment areas should be as small as possible and must be protected from the overflow of stormwater from adjacent areas.
(g)
Roof drainage should discharge at least five feet away from building walls when expansive, collapsible or erodible soils are present.
(Code 2003, § 38-193)
Sec. 26-120. - Height; gradients.
The height and steepness of slopes and maximum gradients of unpaved drainage channels should be such as can be satisfactorily maintained without erosion or land slippage and should provide reasonable access to and around the structure.
(1)
For access around buildings and for maintenance of building and lot improvements, an area generally at least four feet wide with a gradient away from the building no steeper than one in ten (ten percent gradient) should be provided.
(2)
Where considered necessary by the inspection office, precautionary measures should be taken to stabilize the soil (e.g., retaining walls, sodding or planting).
(Code 2003, § 38-194)
Sec. 26-121. - Drainage structures.
(a)
Suitable drainage structures, such as paved gutters, drain inlets and subsurface drain lines, should be installed, where necessary, to protect against dampness, flooding, erosion or other damage by surface water or groundwater. Drainage structures should be properly connected to adequate outlets that are protected by recorded permanent easements, if required.
(b)
Perimeter foundation drains are necessary on all houses with basements or potentially habitable living space below the finished exterior earth grade or in other situations where water and/or soil conditions warrant their use. Outlets must not permit backflow into subsurface drains.
(Code 2003, § 38-195)
Secs. 26-122—26-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - WALKS, STEPS AND DRIVEWAYS

Sec. 26-141. - General design and construction.
A walk and any necessary steps should provide safe and convenient use from a dwelling directly to the street or to a driveway connected to the street. Walk and step construction should be of durable and appropriate material, on stable adequately drained subgrade or bed.
(Code 2003, § 38-221)
Sec. 26-142. - Walk design.
(a)
The gradient should not be steeper than one in 20 (five percent) in areas subject to frequent freezing or one in ten (ten percent) in other areas.
(b)
The cross slope should be adequate for immediate drainage of surface water off the walk; required walk must not be used as a drainage channel.
(c)
Walk surfaces should be at or below adjacent ground elevations.
(Code 2003, § 38-222)
Sec. 26-143. - Step design.
(a)
The width of steps should not be less than the width of the walk that is served.
(b)
A single step in a walk and any flight of steps of more than five feet total rise should be avoided wherever practicable. A substantial handrail of durable construction must be provided if there is more than a 30-inch rise in a single flight.
(Code 2003, § 38-223)
Secs. 26-144—26-169. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - UTILITY RELOCATION

Sec. 26-170. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Public utility includes, but is not limited to, power, telephone, natural gas, storm drainage, sanitary sewer, and cable television.
(Code 2003, § 38-251)
Sec. 26-171. - Compliance required.
All public utilities installed in the rights-of-way of public streets in the unincorporated area of the county, and county roads, shall be installed in accordance with this article.
(Code 2003, § 38-252)
Sec. 26-172. - Review and approval of plans for installation.
No public utility shall be installed in existing county roads or in a street to become a county road, other than those streets described in section 26-173, unless the plans for such installation have been submitted to the county for review and approval. Such review and approval shall be based on the design standards then in use by the county and the location of other utilities installed prior to January 1, 2001.
(Code 2003, § 38-253)
Sec. 26-173. - Applicability of subdivision regulations.
No public utility shall be installed in a street to become a county road pursuant to the land subdivision regulations of the county unless the plans for same have been submitted to the county for review and approval. Such review and approval shall be based on the design standards then in use by the county. The submission shall be made at the same time as the engineering layout and road profile required by section 300(5) of the land subdivision regulations of the county.
(Code 2003, § 38-254)
Sec. 26-174. - Right of entry for inspection.
The employees, authorized agents and other duly authorized employees of the county bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection of the installation of utilities.
(Code 2003, § 38-255)
Sec. 26-175. - Review of design standards.
All design standards set forth in this article shall be reviewed by the board of commissioners and approved by resolution of the board.
(Code 2003, § 38-256)
Sec. 26-176. - Removal and relocation of utility facilities.
(a)
Any utility using or occupying any part of a public road which the county has undertaken to improve or intends to improve shall remove and relocate its facility when, in the reasonable opinion of the county, the facility constitutes an obstruction or interference with the use or safe operation of such road by the traveling public or when, in the reasonable opinion of the county, the facility will interfere with such contemplated construction or maintenance.
(b)
Whenever the county reasonably determines it necessary to have a utility facility removed and relocated, the county shall give the utility at least 60 days' written notice directing the removal and relocation of such utility obstruction. If the utility does not thereafter begin removal within a reasonable time sufficient to allow for engineering and other procedures reasonably necessary to the removal and relocation of the utility facility, the county may give the utility a final notice directing that such removal shall commence not later than ten days from receipt of such final notice. If such utility does not, within ten days from receipt of such final notice, begin to remove or relocate the facility or, having so begun removal or relocation, thereafter fails to complete the removal or relocation within a reasonable time, the county may remove or relocate such facility with its own employees or by employing or contracting for the necessary engineering, labor, tools, equipment, supervision or other necessary services or materials and whatever else is necessary to accomplish the facility's removal or relocation; and the expenses of such removal or relocation may be paid and collected as provided in section 26-178.
(Code 2003, § 38-257)
Sec. 26-177. - Replacement right-of-way for relocated utility.
(a)
Whenever a public road improvement necessitates the acquisition by the county of a utility's privately owned rights-of-way and the relocation of such utility's facilities, the county may, with written consent of the utility, provide a replacement right-of-way.
(b)
Whenever a public road improvement requires the relocation of a utility occupying public road rights-of-way, the county may, at the written request of such utility, provide to the utility a right-of-way which is not on a public road right-of-way. In this event, the utility shall reimburse the county for the acquisition costs.
(c)
Title to property acquired for utility relocations under subsection (a) or (b) of this section and as authorized by section 26-176 may be transferred to such utility as authorized in section 26-178. However, the procedures for sale of property as set forth in this Code shall not be applicable to the transfer of property acquired for utility relocation. Any such property transfer to the utility shall be conveyed by the execution of a quitclaim deed by the board of commissioners.
(Code 2003, § 38-258)
Sec. 26-178. - Payment of expenses of removal and relocation.
The expenses incurred by the county as a result of utility removal and relocation pursuant to section 26-176(b), including the cost of acquiring new land or interest therein pursuant to section 26-177(b), shall be paid out of the available appropriations of the county for the construction or maintenance of public roads. A statement of such expenses shall be submitted to the utility, which shall make payment to the county. If the utility does not make payment or arrange to make payment to the county within 60 days after the receipt of such statement, the county shall certify the amount for collection to the county attorney. Nothing in this article shall be construed so as to deprive any utility, relocated from a location in which it owned a property interest, of compensation for such property interest.
(Code 2003, § 38-259)
Sec. 26-179. - Promulgation of regulations.
The county may promulgate reasonable regulations governing the installation, fees, construction, maintenance, renewal, removal and relocations of pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, towers, tracks, traffic and other such signals, and other equipment and appliances of any utility in, on, along, over, or under any part of the county road system which the county has undertaken or agreed to undertake or which has been completed by the county pursuant to its authority. In addition to the requirement of such county regulations, it shall be the responsibility of the utility to obtain whatever franchise is required by law.
(Code 2003, § 38-260)
Sec. 26-180. - Right to injunctive relief.
(a)
The county may petition for an injunction to enforce the performance of any duty or act imposed by this article or for an order to restrain the breach of any duty or the commission of any act imposed or prohibited or unauthorized by this article.
(b)
Any person who violates any provision of this article or fails to comply with the regulations thereof, including any regulation promulgated by the county, shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-19. The owner of any utility, its agents, representatives, employees or other person who commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may each be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties provided in section 1-19.
(Code 2003, § 38-261)
Secs. 26-181—26-198. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - ROAD ADDRESSING

Sec. 26-199. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Address program administrator means the county official charged with the administration of this article, including his authorized representative. The county EMS director, or such other person as may be designated by the board of commissioners, shall serve as the address program administrator.
Address program administrator assistant means the county official charged with assisting the address program administrator. The address program administrator assistant shall be the county clerk or such other person as designated by the board of commissioners.
Building means a structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the shelter of persons, for residential or business use. When separated by division walls from the ground up without openings, each such enclosure may be deemed a separate building. Buildings without divisions as heretofore described, that are used as multifamily or multi-use facilities, may, at the discretion of the address program administrator, be assigned more than one address.
Concurrence. The county board of commissioners shall have the right to disapprove any action of the address program administrator by a majority vote. If the board of commissioners shall fail to act within two regular meetings after the action of the address program administrator, the board of commissioners shall be deemed to have concurred with said action.
Driveways means a private way, beginning at the property line of a lot abutting a public road, private road, easement or private right-of-way, giving access from the public road, private road easement or private right-of-way, and leading to a building, lot or physical location.
Road address means the combination of numbers and road names assigned under the terms of this article which identifies a particular building, lot or other physical location.
Private road means any one-way or two-way road for ingress and/or egress, serving two or more properties, but not for use by the general public.
Public road means any road, street, highway, thoroughfare, or other way of passage that has been irrevocably dedicated to the public or in which the public has acquired rights by prescription, without regard to whether it is open for travel.
(Code 2003, § 38-301; Ord. of 5-13-2002, § 3)
Sec. 26-200. - Purpose and intent.
The purpose and intent of this article is to provide a uniform system of assigning addresses for all properties and buildings throughout the county in order to facilitate provision of adequate public safety and emergency response service and to minimize difficulty in locating properties and buildings for public service agencies and the general public.
(Code 2003, § 38-302; Ord. of 5-13-2002, § 2)
Sec. 26-201. - Administration and application.
The address program administrator, with the concurrence of the board of commissioners, will be responsible for the interpretation and administration of this article, including:
(1)
Assigning all numbers for properties and buildings (except that the initial system shall be created by LAS Systems).
(2)
Maintaining a database of addresses of each property and building.
(3)
Designating individual unit addresses within multiple housing units in conformity with this article.
(4)
Recommending to the board of commissioners such changes to this article or to the road name system as may be necessary to facilitate the perpetuation and efficiency of the address system.
(Code 2003, § 38-303; Ord. of 5-13-2002, § 4)
Sec. 26-202. - Enforcement.
Owners or occupants of buildings already constructed which do not comply with this article will be notified and requested to meet the requirements within 60 days from the date of notification. A warning notice will be issued by registered or certified mail after the 60 days if the requirements have not been met. The owner or occupant who does not comply with this article within 30 days after delivery of a warning notice shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500.00 or 30 days in jail, or both; and if such violation is continued, each day's violation shall be a separate offense. Violation of this article may also be enforced by seeking an order to compel compliance of civil remedies against the violator. Prosecutions for violation of this article shall be upon citation as provided in O.C.G.A. §§ 15-10-62 and 15-10-63 in the magistrate court of the county. The address program administrator is hereby authorized to issue citations for the enforcement of the provisions contained within this article, as provided by O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63.
(Code 2003, § 38-304; Ord. of 5-13-2002, § 13)
Sec. 26-203. - Display of road address numbers.
(a)
At such time as each owner of improved property is contacted by the county board of commissioners and instructed to do so, he shall purchase and display official address numbers so that they are clearly visible from the street or road on which the property fronts. The following criteria shall be used to properly display the numbers:
(1)
Address numbers must meet the following minimum size requirements:
a.
Mailboxes and/or the posts upon which they are mounted must bear numbers no less than three inches in height.
b.
Residences and businesses within 150 feet of the road upon which their address is assigned must bear numbers no less than four inches in height and be of contrasting color to the background upon which they are placed.
c.
Residences and businesses more than 150 feet but less than 500 feet from the road upon which their address is assigned must bear numbers no less than six inches in height and be of contrasting color to the background upon which they are placed.
d.
Residences and businesses more than 500 feet from the road or which are not visible from the road upon which their address is assigned, must place a pole, post, sign or other device, bearing address numbers no less than four inches in height, in immediate proximity to the driveway or private road that leads to their residence or business.
(2)
Numbers for a multiple dwelling complex or nonresidential building shall be at least six inches in height and shall be placed on the front of the building facing the road or on the end of the building nearest the road. Individual units within a multiple dwelling complex shall be required to display a unit number which is at least three inches in height on the front door or immediately adjacent to the door.
(3)
On a corner lot, the house number shall face the street named in the address.
(b)
The address program administrator, with the concurrence of the board of commissioners, will have the right to authorize and approve alternate methods of displaying numbers which meet the intent of this article when strict adherence to these standards cannot be met or is impractical.
(Code 2003, § 38-305; Ord. of 5-13-2002, § 5)
Sec. 26-204. - Types of numbers.
modified
Two types of numbers are to be used under this article:
(1)
Primary numbers. A primary number is to be assigned to each street frontage of each improved property. The primary number must be posted on that property if the property is occupied by a dwelling unit, structure or active use and the owner, occupant or person in charge is notified under section 26-203.
(2)
Secondary numbers. Secondary numbers may be used when a number of units, structures and uses coexist on the same parcel of land. Examples of secondary numbers include apartment projects, mobile home parks, office parks, planned unit developments, recreational vehicle parks, recreational areas, shopping centers and other uses where the use of secondary numbers would clarify the location of a unit or use for public safety purposes. To provide secondary numbers, the address program administrator shall work with the owner, manager or person in charge of the project to determine a logical numbering system.
(Code 2003, § 38-306; Ord. of 5-13-2002, § 6)
Sec. 26-205. - Exempt and excluded structures.
The intent of this section is to exclude from this article those structures that do not present a significant danger to human life if destroyed by fire or other events. The following structures shall be excluded from the provisions of this article:
(1)
Agricultural buildings not requiring a separate mailing address, such as a barn, poultry house, outbuilding, or equipment storage building.
(2)
Storage and accessory buildings for the use of the occupant of another building on the same property. Buildings used as dwelling units, offices, or the nominal work station of an employee, or such building that requires a separate mailing address, shall not be exempt.
(Code 2003, § 38-307; Ord. of 5-13-2002, § 7)
Sec. 26-206. - New road names.
(a)
No new public roads in the unincorporated area of the county shall be named without the approval of the county board of commissioners.
(b)
No new private road names shall be recognized by this article or added to the county's list of road names without the approval of the county board of commissioners.
(c)
The name of any new public or private road name shall not duplicate or be confusingly similar to an existing road name. This restriction shall not apply to extensions of existing roads.
(Code 2003, § 38-308; Ord. of 5-13-2002, § 8)
Sec. 26-207. - Renaming an existing road.
(a)
Anyone requesting the renaming of an existing road shall submit to the county board of commissioners a petition requesting the change. The petition shall state the existing name, the proposed name, the reason for requesting the change, and the signatures of those citizens supporting the change.
(b)
The county board of commissioners shall decide whether or not to grant the request for changing the road name. If the change is approved, the petitioners shall be required to pay the county the full costs of purchasing and installing the new signs, including the cost of labor. This fee shall be calculated by the county and shall be paid by the petitioners prior to the purchase of the new signs.
(Code 2003, § 38-309; Ord. of 5-13-2002, § 9)
Sec. 26-208. - Numbers for future structures and lots.
At such time as the county implements a building permit system within the unincorporated area of the county, an address number must be assigned prior to the issuance of a building permit.
(Code 2003, § 38-310; Ord. of 5-13-2002, § 10)
Sec. 26-209. - Utility company compliance.
Following the adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived, all utility services regulated by the state public service commission or any utility cooperative service organization providing service in the unincorporated area of the county shall withhold service from any building, dwelling, mobile home or other structure not exempt under this article until the owner or other requesting party has furnished the utility with a valid, assigned number.
(Code 2003, § 38-311; Ord. of 5-13-2002, § 11)
Sec. 26-210. - Implementation by county departments.
Every department and official under the jurisdiction of the county board of commissioners shall withhold non-emergency service until the occupant, owner or requesting individual has provided the department with a valid, assigned number. Non-emergency service includes any service except law enforcement, fire, rescue or emergency medical service.
(Code 2003, § 38-312; Ord. of 5-13-2002, § 12)
