Subpart B - MAGISTRATE COURT OF WEBSTER COUNTY[1]
To provide for the election of the initial chief magistrate of the Magistrate Court of Webster County; to provide for the election of successors to said initial chief magistrate; to provide for the selection of other magistrates; to provide for terms of office; to provide for the appointment of other court personnel; to provide that the sheriff and his deputies shall serve as constables under certain conditions; to provide for filling vacancies; to provide for the compensation of the chief magistrate and other magistrates and of other court personnel; to excuse the chief magistrate from certain jury duty; to provide for reimbursing the chief magistrate and other magistrates for reasonable costs and expenses of training; to provide for severability; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia:

Sec. 1. - [Judge of probate court to serve as chief magistrate of magistrate court.]
(a)
Effective January 1, 1997, the judge of the Probate Court of Webster County shall also serve as and be the chief magistrate of the Magistrate Court of Webster County. The term of office of the judge serving as chief magistrate shall be concurrent with such judge's term of office as judge of the probate court. There shall be no election in 1996 or thereafter for the office of chief magistrate of the Magistrate Court of Webster County.
(b)
Effective January 1, 1997, the judge of the probate court and chief magistrate, in addition to any compensation received for service as judge of the probate court, shall receive a supplement for service as chief magistrate in an amount to be fixed by the governing authority of Webster County. Such supplement shall not be less than the minimum amount provided by any general law of the state for additional service by a judge of the probate court as chief magistrate.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 715), p. 3834, § 1)
Sec. 2. - [Continuation of current chief magistrate.]
The chief magistrate of the Magistrate Court of Webster County who is serving as such on January 1, 1996, and any person selected to fill a vacancy in such office shall continue to serve as such chief magistrate for a term of office which shall expire December 31, 1996, and, during such time period, shall continue to receive the same salary such person was receiving for performing such duties pursuant to Section 4 of Ga. L. 1984, p. 4451.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 715), p. 3835, § 1)
Sec. 3. - [Vacancy.]
In the event of a vacancy on or after January 1, 1997, the person assuming the position of judge of the probate court shall assume additionally the position of chief magistrate.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 715), p. 3835, § 1)
Sec. 4. - [Salary.]
(a)
Upon the conclusion of the term of any other magistrate in office as of the effective date of this Act, any other magistrate shall thereafter be nominated by the chief magistrate at the commencement of the term of office of the chief magistrate and be approved by the governing authority of Webster County for an annual term which shall expire at the end of each calendar year during the term of the chief magistrate. An appointment of any other magistrate shall be automatically renewed for a subsequent annual term which occurs during the term of office of the chief magistrate absent written notice from the chief magistrate of an intent not to renew the appointment of such other magistrate at least 30 days prior to the conclusion of the annual term of office of such other magistrate. The governing authority of Webster County shall not appoint more than one other magistrate to assist the chief magistrate.
(b)
The chief magistrate shall appoint the clerk and other court personnel of the magistrate court; provided, however, that the number of such court personnel shall be approved by the governing authority of Webster County.
(c)
If the constable of the Magistrate Court of Webster County is unable for any reason to perform the constable's duties, the sheriff of Webster County and the sheriff's deputies shall serve as constables for the Magistrate Court of Webster County. The sheriff and the sheriff's deputies shall not be entitled to any additional compensation for performing such duties.
(d)
The governing authority of Webster County shall fix the salaries of the other magistrates and the compensation of the clerk of the court and other court personnel.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 715), p. 3835, § 1; 2012 Ga. Laws (Act No. 559), § 1)
Sec. 5. - [Training expenses.]
The costs and expenses of training required by Chapter 10 of Title 15 of the O.C.G.A. shall be paid by the chief magistrate and other magistrates of Webster County, but such officers shall be reimbursed by the governing authority of Webster County for such reasonable costs and expenses.
