ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1. - OFFICERS

Sec. 3-101. - Chairman; powers and duties.
(a)
The Chairman shall be responsible for:
(1)
The management and coordination of the operations and activities of the various departments and agencies of the unified government;
(2)
The appointment and removal of all directors of departments who are subject to his or her control and direction as provided for by this Charter but only after having first obtained the advice and consent of the commission;
(3)
The preparation of the proposed annual budget;
(4)
Keeping the Commission at all times fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the unified government; including a monthly financial report to the commission;
(5)
Conducting studies and investigations and making reports thereon to the Commission concerning the operations of the departments, offices, and agencies of the unified government;
(6)
Requiring any department, board, commission, or agency under the Chairman's jurisdiction to submit written reports and to provide other information as deemed necessary;
(7)
Prescribing, requiring, publishing, and implementing standards of administration, management, and operating practices and procedures to be followed and adhered to by all offices, departments, boards, commissions, authorities, and other agencies of the unified government which are subject to the Chairman's supervision and jurisdiction;
(8)
Acting as the purchasing agent of Webster County;
(9)
Maintaining all required records of the operations and activities of Webster County, including the minutes of all meetings of the Commission of the Unified Government of Webster County;
(10)
Directing and supervising the administration of the construction, maintenance, and operation of public streets, sidewalks, roads, bridges, drains, buildings and other public works;
(11)
Hiring a clerk to serve the Board of Commissioners;
(12)
Perform such other duties as may be required by law, this Charter, Ordinance or resolution of the Commission;
(b)
Except for the purpose of inquiry, investigation, or safety violations the Commission shall deal with employees of the unified government who are subject to appointment and removal by the Chairman solely through the Chairman and shall not give orders or directions to any such employee, either publicly or privately, directly or indirectly.
Sec. 3-102. - Attorney; appointment; term; qualifications; duties.
(a)
The Attorney shall be appointed for one year at the first meeting in January by a majority vote of the entire Commission and at any time may be removed for cause, after written notice and hearing, by a majority vote of the entire Commission.
(b)
The Attorney shall be an active member of the State Bar of Georgia, in good standing, and shall satisfy any other qualifications established by ordinance.
(c)
The Attorney shall be the legal counsel to the unified government and shall perform such other duties as may be required by this Charter or by ordinance.
Sec. 3-103. - Sheriff.
The Sheriff of Webster County in office on the effective date of this Charter shall be the Sheriff of Webster County, Georgia. The Sheriff shall serve for the same term as provided by law, and the compensation shall be fixed as provided by law. Subsequent elections for Sheriff shall be on the same basis as provided by law for the election of sheriffs generally. The Sheriff shall be responsible for the operation of the jail if the County shall have one, the transport of prisoners, the service of process, and such other duties being provided on the effective date of this Charter. The Sheriff shall have such other or different powers and duties as provided by the Constitution and laws of Georgia.
Sec. 3-104. - Judge of the Probate Court; Judge of Magistrate Court.
The Judge of the Probate Court/Magistrate Court of Webster County in office on the effective date of this Charter shall be the Judge of the Probate Court/Magistrate Court of Webster County, Georgia. The Judge of Probate Court/Magistrate Court shall serve for the same term as provided by law, and the compensation shall be fixed as provided by law. Subsequent elections for the Judge of the Probate Court/Magistrate Court shall be on the same basis as provided by law for the election of probate judges/magistrate judges generally. The Judge of the Probate Court/Magistrate Court shall perform the same duties and exercise the same powers as conferred on probate judges/magistrate judges generally by the Constitution and laws of Georgia.
Sec. 3-105. - Clerk of Superior Court.
The Clerk of Superior Court of Webster County in office on the effective date of this Charter shall be the Clerk of Superior Court of Webster County, Georgia. The Clerk of Superior Court shall serve for the same term as provided by law, and the compensation shall be fixed as provided by law. Subsequent elections for the Clerk of Superior Court shall be on the same basis as provided by law for the election of clerks of superior court generally. The Clerk of Superior Court shall perform the same duties and exercise the same powers as conferred on clerks of superior court generally by the Constitution and laws of Georgia.
Sec. 3-106. - Tax Commissioner.
The Tax Commissioner of Webster County in office on the effective date of this Charter shall be the Tax Commissioner of Webster County, Georgia. The Tax Commissioner shall serve for the same term as provided by law, and the compensation shall be fixed as provided by law. Subsequent elections for Tax Commissioner shall be on the same basis as provided by law for the election of tax commissioners generally. The Tax Commissioner shall perform the same duties and exercise the same powers as conferred on tax commissioners generally by the Constitution and laws of Georgia.
Sec. 3-107. - Coroner.
The Coroner of Webster County in office on the effective date of this Charter shall be the Coroner of Webster County, Georgia. The Coroner shall serve for the same term as provided by law, and compensation shall be fixed as provided by law. Subsequent elections for Coroner shall be on the same basis as provided by law for the election of coroners generally. The Coroner shall perform the same duties and exercise the same powers as conferred on coroners generally by the Constitution and laws of Georgia.
CHAPTER 2. - ADMINISTRATIVE AND SERVICE DEPARTMENTS

Sec. 3-201. - Creation and functions; generally.
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by law, the administrative and service departments of the unified government shall be created and established by ordinance or resolution and shall perform such functions, duties, services, and responsibilities as enumerated therein and as prescribed by administrative regulations.
Sec. 3-202. - Administrative reorganization.
The Commission may, by ordinance or resolution, reorganize, combine, consolidate, or discontinue any department or agency of the unified government subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission and may, by ordinance or resolution, prescribe the functions and duties thereof and may establish, abolish, or alter all non-elective offices and positions of employment as necessary for the proper administration of the unified government.
Sec. 3-203. - Appointment of directors of departments.
All directors of departments, including the Chief of Fire/EMS, the Superintendent of the Webster County Road Department, the Manager of the Solid Waste Department, and such other directors of departments as may be authorized by the Commission, under the supervision and direction of the Chairman shall be appointed by the Chairman subject to the advice and consent of the Commission. The directors of all such departments shall serve at the pleasure of the Chairman subject to the advice and consent of the Commission.
Sec. 3-204. - Departments under state law.
All departments which are created pursuant to state or federal law and which administer various state and federal programs and services shall continue their operations without interruption resulting from the adoption of this Charter.
CHAPTER 3. - MERIT SYSTEM OF PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 3-301. - Establishment of merit system.
(a)
The Commission may establish, by ordinance, a Merit System of Personnel Administration for Webster County, Georgia. In such case, all positions in the service of Webster County, Georgia, shall be in the Classified (Merit System) Service except the following which are declared to be in the Unclassified Service:
(1)
Officers elected by the people and persons appointed to fill vacancies in elective offices;
(2)
Members of boards and commissions;
(3)
Directors of departments;
(4)
Persons temporarily employed in a professional or scientific capacity or to conduct a special inquiry, investigation, examination, or installation;
(5)
Temporary and part-time employees; and
(6)
Such other employees as may be excluded from coverage under the merit system as provided by ordinance or resolution or other applicable law.
(7)
The attorney.
(b)
The Merit System of Personnel Administration, if so established, shall provide for classification of positions, the manner and method of publicizing vacancies, employing and appointing personnel, the qualifications of employees, employee performance evaluations, salaries, hours of employment, vacations, sick leave, special workers' compensation, job security, promotion, demotion, disciplinary procedures, transfer, layoff, removal, welfare of employees, retirement policy, payment of premiums of employee insurance benefits, grievance procedures, service awards, training leave, and any other measures that promote the hiring and retaining of capable, diligent, and honest career employees, all of which shall be in accordance with the concept of affirmative action as provided by federal law.
CHAPTER 4. - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND AUTHORITIES

Sec. 3-401. - Certain boards, commissions, and authorities continued.
All existing boards, commissions, and authorities are continued without interruption on the effective date of this Charter.
