ARTICLE V. - YARD SALES

Sec. 11-80. - Yard sales.
(a)
A "yard sale" is defined as the sale or trading of clothing, furniture, household items, food, dishes, antiques or similar goods or merchandise on a residentially zoned lot or parcel. The definition of yard sale shall include sales or trading of goods as outlined above, when fifty (50) per cent or more of the frontage on the street upon which the lot or parcel to be used fronts, is still used for residential purposes, even if such lot or parcel to be used is not residentially zoned. The term "yard sale" shall include garage sales, carport sales and similar types of sales or events.
(b)
The individual in charge of the premises upon which the sale is conducted shall control the parking of vehicles of patrons so as to avoid congestion and hazardous conditions. Failure to do so shall be sufficient cause for the sale to be immediately terminated.
(c)
Yard sales shall be allowed on a lot or parcel for not more than two (2) sales not to exceed two (2) days each during a twelve (12) month period. No individual shall be associated with or involved in yard sales for more than two (2) sales during a twelve-month period. No individual shall engage in the business of promoting or conducting yard sales for other persons for a fee or other consideration. Yard sales are prohibited on Sundays.
(d)
Notice shall be provided to the police department of the city twenty-four (24) hours in advance of holding a yard sale. Such notice may be given by telephone, in writing, or by personal appearance at the police station.
(e)
Advertising of merchandise for sale or trading or display of goods and merchandise as defined above for public viewing, shall be deemed a yard sale when conducted in a residentially zoned area or on a block where fifty (50) per cent or more of the frontage on the street upon which the lot or parcel to be used fronts, is still used for residential purposes, even if such lot or parcel to be used is not residentially zoned. Such goods or merchandise do not need to be attended for a sale to be deemed to be in existence.
(f)
Violation of this section shall be deemed an offense and each day of violation shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 97-01, § 1, 2-3-97)
Secs. 11-81—11-99. - Reserved.
