ARTICLE X. - INSURANCE BUSINESS

Sec. 11-180. - License fees; imposed on life insurers, generally.
(a)
Insurers license fees. There is hereby levied for the year 1985 and for each year thereafter an annual license fee upon each insurer (whether life or otherwise) doing business within the City of College Park in the amount of seventy-five dollars ($75.00). For each separate business location in excess of one (1) not covered by subsection (b), which is operating on behalf of such insurers within the City of College Park there is hereby levied a license fee in the amount of seventy-five dollars ($75.00). For the purposes of this section, the term "insurer" means a company which is authorized to transact business in the class of insurance designated in Official Code of Georgia Annotated Section 33-3-5.
(b)
License fee for insurers certain risks at additional business locations. For each separate business location, not otherwise subject to a license fee hereunder, operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and in connection with such loans or sales, offers, solicits or takes application for insurance through a licensed agent of an insurer for life insurance said insurer shall pay an additional license fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per location for the year 1985 and for each year thereafter.
(c)
Insurance agency license fees; independent insurance agencies, brokers, etc., not otherwise licensed. There is hereby levied for the year 1985 and for each year thereafter an annual license fee upon independent agencies and brokers for separate business location from which an insurance business is conducted and which is not subject to the company license fee imposed by subsection (a) hereof in the amount of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) for each such location within the City of College Park.
(d)
Gross premiums tax imposed on life insurers. There is hereby levied for the year 1985 and for each year thereafter an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer writing life, accident and sickness insurance within the City of College Park in an amount equal to one (1) per cent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year in accordance with Official Code of Georgia Annotated Section 22-8-8.1. Gross direct premiums as used in this section shall mean gross direct premiums as used in Official Code of Georgia Annotated Section 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this subsection is in addition to the license fees imposed by subsection (a) of this section.
(e)
Gross premiums tax, all other insurers. There is hereby levied for the year 1985 and for each year thereafter an annual tax upon each insurer, other than an insurer transacting business in the class of insurance designated in subsection 1 of Official Code of Georgia Annotated Section 33-3-5, doing business within the City of College Park in an amount equal to two and one-half (2½) per cent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year, in accordance with Official Code of Georgia Annotated designated in subsection 1 of Section 33-8-8. Gross direct premiums as used in this subsection shall mean gross direct premiums as used in Official Code of Georgia Annotated Section 33-8-8.2(a)
(f)
Due date for license fees. License fees imposed in subsections (a), (b) and (c) of this section shall be due and payable on the 1st day of January, 1985 and on January 1 of each subsequent year.
(g)
Administrative provisions.
(1)
The city clerk is hereby directed to forward a duly certified copy of Ordinance No. 84-14 to the insurance commissioner of the State of Georgia.
(2)
The premium taxes levied by section 14-121(d) and (e) hereof are due and payable upon January 1st of each year. Any company not reporting and paying the premium tax on or before forty-five (45) days from the 1st day of January for that particular taxable year shall be delinquent.
(3)
Every insurance company doing business within the city and subject to the fees and taxes herein imposed shall file with the city clerk, on forms prescribed by him, a report showing the names and addresses of its agents representing such company in the city; the location and person in charge of each and every business location within the city operated and maintained by such reasonable information as may be required, and, in addition, shall furnish complete information regarding any premium received, by class, from policies written on risks residing or located within the city. Such report shall be made over affidavit of an officer of such company. It is hereby declared to be a violation of this section for any person, firm, corporation or their agents to knowingly file false or incomplete information on any such report. Said report shall be filed at the time of paying the license fee and premium tax.
(4)
The person responsible for each such insurance business location subject to license fee under section 14-121(c) hereof shall file with the city clerk a report, on forms prescribed by him, showing the address of the business location; the class or classes of insurance written; the names of the persons writing insurance at such location; the names of the companies represented; and such other reasonable information as may be required. Such report shall be made over affidavit of the person in charge of such business location. It is hereby declared to be a violation of this section for any person, firm, corporation or their agents to knowingly give false or incomplete information on any such report. Said report shall be filed at the time of paying the license fee.
(5)
All reports required to be filed under this section shall be confidential and the information contained therein shall be solely for the use of the officers of the city responsible for administering this section.
(h)
Enforcement. The fees and taxes levied by this section may be enforced by execution in the same manner as other taxes of the city. A violation of this section shall be grounds for refusing or revoking a license, and the person responsible may be punished as for violations of other city ordinances.
(i)
Effective date. This section shall become effective January 1, 1985.
(j)
Severability. In the event any portion of this section shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, it is the intention of the city council of the City of College Park that such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, sentences, clauses or phrases of this section which shall remain in full force and effect, as if the invalid or unconstitutional section, sentence, clause or phrase were not originally a part of the section.
(k)
Repealer. All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this section are hereby repealed.
(Ord. No. 84-14, 8-6-84)
Secs. 11-181—11-189. - Reserved.
