ARTICLE III. - ELECTRICAL CODE[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— License fee for electrical contractor, §§ 11-10, 11-11.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 5-30. - Exception to requirements of article.
This article shall not cover minor electrical repairs involving no new work, alteration or change whatever, that may be necessary or incident to the maintenance only in good condition of an established plant, installation or system of wiring, but this qualification does not extend to installation of new circuits or the extension of any circuits already installed, or the installation of any apparatus, devices or materials whatever for which a permit is required under this article. (Code 1963, § 6-4)
Sec. 5-31. - Electrical contractors—Term defined.
The term "electrical contractor" as used in this article, shall mean any person engaging in the business of electrical installation, construction and repair.
(Code 1963, § 6-5)
Sec. 5-32. - Same—Business license required.
Every person desiring to engage in the business of electrical installation, construction and repair in the city shall, before doing so, obtain a business license therefor in accordance with the City Code.
(Code 1963, § 6-6)
Sec. 5-33. - Rules and regulations of city electrician; approval required.
All rules and regulations promulgated by the city electrician shall be subject to the approval of the governing body.
(Code 1963, § 6-9)
Sec. 5-34. - Appeal from order of city electrician.
Appeal may be made from any order of the city electrician to the construction board of adjustment and appeals of the city.
(Code 1963, § 6-12)
Sec. 5-35. - Violation of article, noncompliance with orders; penalty.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this article for which no specific penalty has been provided, or who shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with any order of the city electrician given in pursuance and by authority of this article, or who shall wilfully aid or assist in the violation of any of the provisions of this article, shall, upon conviction thereof in the city court, be punished as provided in section 1-8 for each offense.
(Code 1963, § 6-15)
Secs. 5-36—5-39. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS

Sec. 5-40. - Permits—Required.
(a)
Electrical work generally: Before beginning any work of electrical installation, construction or repair, an application for permit shall be made to the city electrician on forms furnished for that purpose, which application shall contain an accurate and detailed account of the electrical work contemplated as provided for in the forms furnished.
(b)
Load change or increase: If after obtaining a permit for electrical work it is found necessary to change or increase the load of electric current, an application for permit shall be filed covering the additional work.
(c)
Altering wiring; increasing load: No alteration shall be made in the wiring of any building or structure for light, heat or power, or increase in the rated load as fixed by the city electrical code carried by such wires, without a permit therefor from the city electrician.
(Code 1963, §§ 6-29—6-31)
Sec. 5-41. - Same—Layout or blueprint.
(a)
Before beginning work on the wiring of any new building or structure for light, heat or power, or any electrical equipment or appliance, a satisfactory layout or blueprint shall be submitted to the city electrician.
(b)
The application for permit filed in accordance with section 5-40(a) shall, in the discretion of the city electrician, be deemed to contain sufficient information and be accepted without layout or blueprint as required in subsection (a) of this section; but the acceptance of such application for permit does not fulfill the requirements of section 5-40(a) if after its acceptance, in the opinion of the city electrician such blueprint is deemed necessary.
(Code 1963, §§ 6-28, 6-32)
Sec. 5-42. - Same—Fees.
Fees for electrical permits shall be as be as established by resolution of mayor and council.
(Code 1963, § 6-39; Ord. No. 93-1, § 2, 1-4-93; Ord. No. 2010-25, § 4, 8-16-10)
Sec. 5-43. - Application for temporary service.
An application for temporary service shall state the period of time the service is required and the necessity for same.
(Code 1963, § 6-36)
Sec. 5-44. - Inspection duties and authority—Generally.
It shall be the duty of the city electrician to inspect all electrical construction, installation and equipment of whatever character, whether inside or outside of buildings. Such electrician shall have power to order removed, repaired, or rebuilt any such construction, installation or equipment when in such electrician's judgement, life or property will be better protected thereby; and it shall be in such electrician's duty to see that all laws in force governing electrical energy or construction are strictly complied with.
(Code 1963, § 6-26)
Sec. 5-45. - Same—Right of entry; right to test and examine.
The city electrician shall have the right in the discharge of official duties, to enter any building under construction or completed, any manhole or subway, or climb any pole, for the purpose of examining and testing the electric wires, construction and appliances therein or thereon contained. For that purpose such electrician shall be given prompt access to all buildings, public or private, and to all manholes, subways or poles, on application to the person owning or in charge of the same.
(Code 1963, § 6-27)
Sec. 5-46. - Covering, concealing wiring; certificate of inspection required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, or the agent or employee of any person, to cover or conceal any electric light or power wiring in the city except upon the following conditions: Whenever it is desired to conceal any electric wiring, the city electrician shall be notified and it shall then be such electrician's duty to inspect said wiring and if approved by such electrician as being in conformity with this article, the rules prescribed hereunder, the statutes of the state and the approved methods of construction for safety to life and property, such electrician shall issue a certificate of inspection which shall authorize the concealing of the wiring.
(Code 1963, § 6-33)
Sec. 5-47. - Completion of electrical work; certificate of approval required before current is turned on.
Upon notification of completion of work, it shall be the duty of the city electrician to inspect said wiring or work, and if approved by such electrician as being in conformity with this article, the rules prescribed hereunder, the statutes of the state and the approved methods of construction for safety to life and property, such electrician shall issue a certificate of approval which shall authorize the current to be turned on. It shall be unlawful for the current to be turned on until such certificate of approval has been obtained. This section shall not apply to cases where temporary approval may be granted as hereinafter set out.
(Code 1963, § 6-34)
Sec. 5-48. - Testing of equipment; occupancy before completion of electrical work; temporary approval authorized.
Temporary approval may be issued for the purpose of allowing current to be turned on to certain parts of wiring installations which have been made safe to the satisfaction of the city electrician in order to allow the testing out of certain electrical equipment, and in order to allow tenants, lessees or owners the use of certain completed parts of buildings before the entire job is completed.
(Code 1963, § 6-35)
Sec. 5-49. - Structures damaged by fire—Resumption of electric service regulated.
Electric service shall not be resumed to the premises of any building or structure damaged by fire without approval of the city electrician.
(Code 1963, § 6-37)
Sec. 5-50. - Same—Wiring to be replaced.
Before beginning work on any electrical installation damaged by fire, a ruling shall be obtained from the city electrician as to what portion of the wiring must be replaced.
(Code 1963, § 6-38)
Sec. 5-51. - Discontinuance of electrical service for noncompliance.
In any case of failure to comply with this article, the city electrician shall have the authority after due notice to cut electric current in any locality concerned and to enforce discontinuance of the same until compliance with said requirements is effected.
(Code 1963, § 6-10)
Cross reference— Discontinuance of electric service for nonpayment of charges, § 10-5.
Sec. 5-52. - condemnation of wiring, equipment or appliances.
The city electrician shall have the authority to condemn any electric wiring, equipment or appliance which, in such electrician's opinion, is unsafe to life or property and after three (3) day's notice shall order the current discontinued from such electric wiring, equipment or appliance.
(Code 1963, § 6-11)
Sec. 5-53. - Correction of defects; failure to correct defects.
Any person who shall fail to correct any defects in the work within five (5) days after having been duly notified of such defects by the city electrician, shall not receive any further permit until such defects have been corrected. Immediately after the correction of such defects, the city electrician shall be notified of such corrections.
(Code 1963, § 6-13)
Secs. 5-54—5-59. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 5-60. - Materials, devices; minimum requirements.
No electrical materials, devices or appliances shall be sold, used or installed in the city unless they are in conformity with the provisions of this article and the statutes of the state and unless they are in conformity with approved methods of construction for safety to life and property.
(Code 1963, § 6-50)
Sec. 5-61. - Wiring changes in old buildings.
Any person making changes in any wiring installation of old buildings shall be required to remove all obsolete wiring.
(Code 1963, § 6-51)
Sec. 5-62. - Unsoldered joints; concealing regulated.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place tape on or otherwise conceal an unsoldered joint on any electric light, heat or power system unless a solderless connector is used which has been approved by the city electrician for that purpose.
(Code 1963, § 6-52)
Sec. 5-63. - Fusing conductor above rated capacity.
It shall be unlawful for any person to bridge a fuse gap in an ungrounded conductor in any manner whereby the conductor protected by such gap is fused above its rated capacity.
(Code 1963, § 6-53)
Sec. 5-64. - Temporary wiring, purpose—Installation regulated.
Temporary wiring may be installed when written permission is secured from the city electrician for the following purposes:
(1)
To be used to supply power for the purpose of hoisting material used in buildings under construction or remodeling, and for the purpose of lighting said building or structures used in connection with the construction of such buildings.
(2)
For the purpose of lighting tents or buildings used for religious gatherings or shows, where said tents or buildings will only be used for a short duration of time, or for decorative purposes where wiring will only be used for a short time.
(Code 1963, § 6-54)
Sec. 5-65. - Same—Temporary approval.
Temporary approvals may be issued covering work as outlined in section 5-64, when such work is installed in such manner as not to endanger life or property.
(Code 1963, § 6-55)
Sec. 5-66. - Code adopted.
There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the installation of electrical construction, equipment and appliances and other similar work in the city, that certain National Electrical Code as recommended by the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., being particularly the 1990 edition thereof, as amended or modified herein, save and except such portions as are in conflict with this article. Said electrical code as modified is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out in length herein, and as so modified shall be controlling from the date of the passage of this section. A current copy of the electrical code, as amended, shall be maintained on file in the office of the city clerk where it shall be available for public inspection.
(Code 1963, § 6-2; Ord. No. 88-11, § 6, 5-2-88; Ord. No. 91-11, § 1, 6-3-91)
Sec. 5-67. - Amendments to code.
The electrical code is amended in the following particulars:
The first paragraph of Section 110-14(a) is amended to read as follows:
"(a) Terminal. Connection of conductors to terminal parts shall insure a thoroughly good connection without damaging the conductors and shall be made by means of approved pressure connectors (including set-screw type of copper conductors), solder lugs, or splices to flexible leads. Compression type connections using approved compression type connectors, or compression splices to flexible leads, shall be used for aluminum conductors."
Section 210-5 is amended by adding a new subsection (c), to read as follows:
"(c) Ungrounded conductors. Where installed in raceways, as open work or as concealed knob-and-tube work, the ungrounded conductor shall be identified by any color other than as specified in (a) and (b) above. All ungrounded conductors of the same color shall be connected to the same ungrounded feeder conductor and the conductors for systems of different voltages shall be of different consistent colors. It is recommended for a basic low voltage wiring system, that the following colors be used: Three-wire circuits, one (1) black, one (1) white and one (1) red; four-wire circuits, one (1) black, one (1) white, one (1) red and one (1) blue."
Section 230-70 is amended by adding a new subsection (d), to read as follows:
"(d) Service distribution. The service distribution switchgear (power panelboards and etc.), shall be installed at a readily accessible location inside of a building structure, nearest the point of entrance of the service conductors."
Section 230-70(a) is amended by adding Exception No. 1 as follows:
"Exception No. 1: When installed in an existing dwelling, the service disconnecting means may be located at a point not to exceed six (6) feet inside the structure, provided the service conductors or cable is installed in a continuous metal raceway."
The first sentence of Section 230-81 is amended to read as follows:
"The service conductors shall be connected to the service disconnecting means by approved pressure connectors, clamps, or approved means. Connections that depend upon solder shall not be used. Compression type connections using approved compression type connectors, shall be used for aluminum conductors."
The last sentence of Section 250-81(a) is amended to read as follows:
"Where the supplemental electrode is a made electrode as in section 250-83(c) or (d), that portion of the bonding jumper which is the sole connection to the supplemental grounding electrode shall be required to be sized in accordance with Section 250-94 (table)."
Section 331 Electrical Nonmetallic Tubing, Conduit raceway systems, is amended by striking the section in its entirety.
The first sentence of Section 333-6(a) is amended to read as follows:
"(a) Uses permitted. Except where otherwise specified elsewhere in this code, and where not subject to physical damage, type AC cable with equipment ground, shall be permitted for branch circuit extensions, in existing structures only, not to exceed fifteen (15) feet to a single ceiling outlet, receptacle outlet or switch outlet, in both exposed and concealed work."
The first paragraph of Section 336-3 is amended to read as follows:
"Uses permitted. Type NM and Type NMC cables shall be permitted to be used in one-and two-family dwellings and multifamily dwellings, except as prohibited in Section 336-4."
Section 336-4(a) is amended to read as follows:
"Uses not permitted. Type NM or NMC cables shall not be used: (1) In any dwelling exceeding three (3) floors above grade; (2) as service entrance cable; (3) in commercial garages having hazardous (classified) locations as provided in Section 511-3; (4) in theaters and similar locations; (5) places of assembly; (6) in motion picture studios; (7) in hoistways; (8) embedded in poured concrete; (9) in hotels; motels; (10) in office buildings; (11) or in similar commercial establishments.
"For the purpose of this article, the first floor of a dwelling shall be that floor that has fifty (50) per cent or more of the exterior wall surface area level with or above finished grade."
"One (1) additional level that is the first level and not designed for human habitation and used only for vehicle parking, storage, or similar use shall be permitted."
(Code 1963, § 6-3.1; Ord. No. 91-11, § 2, 6-3-91)
Secs. 5-68, 5-69. - Reserved.
