Chapter 2.5 - ALARM SYSTEMS[1]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 86-33, §§ 1—10, adopted Dec. 8, 1986, did not specifically amend the Code, hence inclusion herein as Ch. 2.5, §§ 2.5-1—2.5-10, was at the discretion of the editor.
Cross reference— Fire protection and prevention, Ch. 7; false alarms, § 12-24.

Sec. 2.5-1. - Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the installation and use of police and fire alarm systems and to establish standards for, controls of, and maintenance of the various alarm systems that are intended to bring about police and/or fire department response.
(Ord. No. 86-33, § 1, 12-8-86)
Sec. 2.5-2. - Definitions.
(a)
Alarm system shall mean an assembly of equipment and devices designated and arranged to detect and signal an unauthorized intrusion into a premise, to signal an attempted robbery at protected premises, a fire on premises, a medical emergency needing medical attention, and/or an ambulance, or like occurrences.
(b)
False alarm shall mean the activation of an alarm system where none of the emergencies for which the alarm system has been installed have, in fact, occurred.
(c)
Response shall mean the dispatch of police, fire equipment, ambulance, or other appropriate equipment for the emergency signal, to the premises where the alarm system has been activated indicating such emergency is present.
(d)
Licensing authority means the City of College Park, Georgia, through the police and fire chief of said city.
(e)
Police and fire chief means the chief of police of the College Park Police Department, and the fire chief of the College Park Fire Department, all of College Park, Georgia and/or their authorized representatives.
(Ord. No. 86-33, § 2, 12-8-86)
Sec. 2.5-3. - Property owner or property lessee permits.
(a)
Application for permits. Any property owner or lessee of property in the City of College Park having or installing on his or its premises an alarm system shall apply to the licensing authority on a form to be supplied by the licensing authority for a permit to have such a device on his or its premises. Application for permits for alarm systems existing on premises on the effective date of this article must be made to the licensing authority within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this chapter. No such alarm system may be installed on the premises of the owner or lessee after the effective date of this chapter prior to the licensing authority having issued a permit to such owner or lessee. No presently existing alarm system shall be modified after the effective date of this chapter prior to the issuance of a permit to such owner or lessee by the licensing authority.
(b)
Permit fees. The annual permit fee for an alarm system shall be ten dollars ($10.00) per year for a system that is not directly monitored by the College Park Police and Fire Departments. The annual permit fee for an alarm system directly monitored by the College Park Police and Fire Departments shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
(c)
Suspension or revocation; false alarms. A permit issued under this article may be suspended or revoked by the licensing authority for any violation of this chapter or for an excess of four (4) nonvalid alarms to which the police department or fire department responds within a calendar year. No part of the permit fee shall be refunded when a permit is suspended or revoked. No permit issued under this article shall be suspended or revoked prior to a hearing to be held by the licensing authority after giving five (5) days written notice to the owner or lessee. In addition hereto, any permit holder who shall have in excess of three (3) false alarms within a calendar year shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter and punishable by a fine of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per each false alarm during such calendar year in excess of the first three (3) false alarms. Notwithstanding anything contained in this paragraph (c) to the contrary, a permittee installing or having installed on his premises a new alarm system shall be granted a grace period of thirty (30) days beginning with the date of the new installation during which grace period the provisions hereof concerning the suspension or revocation of the permit or the imposition of a fine shall not apply.
(d)
Appeal. Any owner or lessee whose permit has been denied, or whose permit has been suspended or revoked, may appeal such denial, suspension or revocation in writing to the mayor and council within thirty (30) days after the date of the notice of the denial, suspension or revocation and may appear before the mayor and council at a time and place to be determined by the mayor and council in support of his or its contention that the permit should not have been denied, suspended, or revoked. In all cases, the decision of the mayor and council is final.
(e)
Force majeure. In determining the number of nonvalid alarms, the licensing authority may exclude any nonvalid alarm which it determines was caused by an act of God, power failure and/or telephone line interruption.
(f)
Renewal. All holders of alarm system permits must tender an annual permit fee to the licensing authority on or before January 1 of each year. Failure to pay such permit fee in the time and manner provided will result in the suspension or revocation of the permit.
(g)
Connection. A holder of an alarm system permit may not connect its alarm system to in any way directly notify the police department or fire department without first obtaining an alarm system permit. All costs incurred in such hookup shall be borne by the permittee. No alarm business or permit holder shall place, install, or otherwise locate any central station equipment for direct connection of alarm systems in the police department or fire department without its prior consent. Upon suspension or revocation of such permit, the owner or lessee shall immediately disconnect his or its alarm system.
(h)
Alarm system description. The alarm agent and/or alarm business must provide the owner or lessee of the alarm system a written description of the function and operation of the alarm system installed on the premises, along with the procedure and means for activating or deactivating the same.
(i)
Individual requirement. Every person maintaining an alarm system shall furnish to the police chief and fire chief the name and telephone number of the primary individual responsible for the alarm system and at least one alternate name and telephone number of an individual who can deactivate the alarm system or systems. The owner or lessee of an alarm system will be responsible for deactivating the alarm system within a reasonable time following notification by the police department or fire department.
(Ord. No. 86-33, § 3, 12-8-86)
Sec. 2.5-4. - Prohibited equipment.
No user of an alarm system shall use or operate, attempt to use or operate, or cause to be used or operated, or arrange, adjust, program or otherwise provide or install any device or combination of devices that will, upon being activated, either mechanically, electronically, or by any other automatic means, call and deliver a recorded message to any telephone number assigned to the communications center for the City of College Park, except when approved by the said communications center.
(Ord. No. 86-33, § 4, 12-8-86)
Sec. 2.5-5. - Violations and penalties.
(a)
After the effective date of this chapter, any person who:
(1)
Owns or leases property and installs or has installed an alarm system on the premises without having a valid and existing permit therefore, or modifies or has modified an existing alarm system without a valid and existing permit therefore; or
(2)
Owns or leases property with an alarm system thereon while not having a valid and existing permit therefore, and shall fail or refuse to remove and/or disconnect the same after notice being given by the licensing authority; or
(3)
Violates any other provision of this chapter or any regulations promulgated pursuant hereto;
shall be guilty of the violation of this chapter and be punishable by a fine not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the first violation and a fine not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation thereafter.
(b)
After the effective date of this chapter, any person who intentionally activates any alarm system for any reason other than to warn of an actual burglary, holdup, robbery, fire, or as provided under section 2.5-10 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or up to thirty (30) days in jail, or both.
(c)
Operates any audible alarm system that does not have an automatic thirty (30) minute shut off after activation. The licensing authority shall take all appropriate actions to shut off an audible alarm that does not automatically shut off within thirty (30) minutes of activation.
(Ord. No. 86-33, § 5, 12-8-86)
Sec. 2.5-6. - Special provisions; exceptions, severability, confidentiality and alarm systems.
(a)
None of the provisions of this chapter shall apply to the following:
(1)
An alarm system installed in a motor vehicle;
(2)
Employees of a public utility company engaged in the business of providing communications, services or facilities;
(b)
If any part or parts of this chapter are for any reason held invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this article.
(c)
The information furnished and secured pursuant to this article is and shall be personal in nature and confidential and not subject to public inspection from the Public Records Act. Any member of the licensing authority, police department, or fire department policing or providing the confidential information secured hereunder to any unauthorized person, or using the information to the detriment of the permit holder, shall be guilty of a violation hereunder and subject to the penalties under section 2.5-5.
(Ord. No. 86-33, § 6, 12-8-86)
Sec. 2.5-7. - Regulations.
The city manager and licensing authority shall, from time to time, promulgate such regulations as he deems proper concerning the permit application alarm installation, testing of alarms, and other procedures concerning alarm systems.
(Ord. No. 86-33, § 7, 12-8-86)
Sec. 2.5-8. - Enforcement responsibility.
Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the licensing authority of the City of College Park, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 86-33, § 8, 12-8-86)
Sec. 2.5-9. - Liability of the city.
The city shall take every reasonable precaution to assure that alarm systems and alarm messages received by the communications center are given appropriate attention and are acted upon with dispatch. Nevertheless, the city shall not be liable for any defect in operation of automatic devices and signal line systems, for any failure or neglect to respond appropriately upon receipt of an alarm from such a source, nor the failure or neglect of any person or agency providing dispatch or monitoring services to properly notify the city or its communications center as a result of failure in the connection with the installation and operation of equipment, the transmission of alarm signals and alarm messages, or the relaying of any such signals or messages to the communications center.
(Ord. No. 86-33, § 9, 12-8-86)
Sec. 2.5-10. - Testing.
No alarm system designed to transmit emergency messages directly or indirectly to the police shall be tested or demonstrated without first obtaining permission from the licensing authority. Permission is not required to test or demonstrate alarm devices not transmitting emergency messages directly to the communications center of the City of College Park, unless the messages are to be replayed to said communications center.
(Ord. No. 86-33, § 10, 12-8-86)
