ARTICLE VIII. - TAXATION AND FINANCE[12]

Footnotes:
--- (12) ---
Editor's note— Many of the provisions of this article have been superseded by state law.

Sec. 8-1. - Authority generally.
The mayor and council shall have power to levy and collect a specific tax upon factors, bankers, agents or managers of gift enterprises and shows of all sorts; upon all the professions, trades, callings, vocations or businesses of any nature carried on in said city; upon all the persons exercising within the city any profession, trade, calling, avocation, or business of any nature (provided that the profession, trade, calling, vocation or business, and the person exercising the same shall not both be subjected to tax during the same year); upon each pool, billiard or other table of similar kind run for hire or profit in said city; upon all brokers, pawnbrokers, bankers, peddlers, and itinerant traders; provided, said tax is not in conflict with any law of this state.
(Ga. L. 1895, p. 251, § 15)
Sec. 8-2. - Assessment of ad valorem taxes—Limitation on rate.
The mayor and council shall have power to assess, levy and collect an ad valorem tax upon all real and personal property in said city, for the purpose of providing revenue for the ordinary expenses of the municipal government.
(Ga. L. 1895, p. 251, § 16; Ga. L. 1922, p. 642, § 2; Ga. L. 1947, p. 1040, § 1; Ga. L. 1949, p. 1961, § 3; Ga. L. 1985, p. 4512, § 1)
Sec. 8-3. - Homestead exemptions.
The homestead of each resident of the City of College Park actually occupied by the owner as a residence and a homestead, but only so long as actually occupied by the owner primarily as such, is hereby exempted from city for the payment of interest on and retirement of bonded indebtedness, in the amount of twelve thousand dollars ($12,000.00) of its value.
(Ga. L. 1922, p. 642, § 3; Ga. L. 1947, p. 1040, § 1; Ga. L. 1949, p. 1961, § 4; Ga. L. 1985, p. 4512, § 1; Ga. L. 1985, p. 4513, § 1)
Sec. 8-4. - Tax returns required; due date for taxes; authority of mayor and council.
(a)
It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation, owning real or personal property in the City of College Park subject to taxation, to make returns thereof to the city clerk of said city on or before such date in each year as may be provided by ordinance. All property in said city shall be returned as of date January first, and the owner of such property, or his agent or legal representative, shall, on or before the date so provided by ordinance, in each year return the same for taxation. All of such property shall be returned at its fair market value, on a form prescribed by the mayor and council of said city, under the oath of the owner, his agent or person making such return. Any person, firm or corporation failing to make return of his or their property as so provided shall be subject to such penalty as may be prescribed by ordinance.
(b)
All ad valorem taxes due said city for any particular year shall mature and be due and payable at such time or times as may be provided by ordinance. The mayor and council of said city shall also have the power, in their discretion, to prescribe by ordinance for the payment of such taxes in installments, for allowance of discount for premature payment of taxes or installments thereof, and for the collection of interest on matured installments.
(Ga. L. 1922, p. 642, § 7; GA. L. 1924, p. 503, § 2; Ga. L. 1925, p. 974, § 3)
Sec. 8-5. - Sanitary taxes; levy authorized; execution for collection.
Beginning with and including the year 1941, the mayor and council of the City of College Park shall have the power and authority to assess, levy and collect annual or monthly sanitary taxes in such amount or amounts, and based upon and in accordance with such classification of property and/or sanitary service or services provided, as may be fixed by ordinance of said city; which sanitary taxes and the assessment thereof shall be a charge and lien against the real estate in respect of which said taxes are so assessed, and the owner or owners thereof, superior to all other liens except liens for taxes or other assessments; and said mayor and council shall have the power and authority to enforce the collection of any assessment so made by execution to be issued by the city clerk against the real estate and against the owner thereof, for the amount so assessed, which execution shall be levied and the property advertised and sold in the same manner and with the same effect as tax executions are now levied and property sold thereunder, by said City of College Park.
(Ga. L. 1941, p. 1270, § 2; GA. L. 1951, p. 2797, § 6)
Cross reference— Assessment for sewer improvements authorized, § 6-17(a); charge for use of sewer system, § 6-18; costs for sewer connections and taps, § 6-19.
Sec. 8-6. - Board of tax assessors—Constituted, duties.
(a)
Selection, duties: The mayor and council of the City of College Park are hereby authorized, at their option, to elect three (3) freeholders, residing in said city, to be known as the board of tax assessors of said city, whose duty it shall be to value and assess all property, real and personal, within said city, subject to taxation, whether the same or any part thereof be returned for taxation or not. Said board shall be elected by the mayor and council of said city at the first meeting in January of each year, or at any regular meeting thereafter (including the present year), who shall hold office for the balance of the calendar year, and until their successors shall be elected and qualified, and who shall be paid such compensation as may be fixed by the mayor and council.
(b)
Organization: Said board shall meet as prescribed by ordinance, and at such other times as the board itself may fix, for the purpose of valuing and assessing, at its fair market value, all property, real and personal, subject to taxation in said city, whether the same or any part thereof be returned for taxation or not; of which report or return shall be made by said board to the mayor and council.
(c)
Decision of board: In the event the valuation of property returned for taxation shall be raised or increased by said board in making its assessment thereon, due notice thereof shall be given, in writing, by said board or its authority, to the owner of such property, his agent or legal representative, in such manner as the mayor and council may by ordinance prescribe, and of the time and place when and where said board will pass upon and finally fix such assessment, reasonable time, as may be fixed by ordinance, being given said owner, his agent or legal representative, in order that he or they may have an opportunity of being heard by said board upon the question of said valuation and assessment. Like notice and action shall be given and taken by said board as to property not returned for taxation by the owner, his agent or legal representative, but which is subject to taxation by said city.
(d)
Appeal: From the action of said board of assessors, either with respect to returned or unreturned property subject to taxation, an appeal shall be to the mayor and council of said city, whose decision thereon shall be final.
(Ga. L. 1922, p. 642, § 8)
Sec. 8-7. - Same—Removal, vacancies; chairman, clerk.
Any and all of the members of said board of tax assessors shall be removable at the will of the mayor and council at any time. Vacancies caused by such removal, or by death, resignation or otherwise, shall be filled by the mayor and council. Said board shall have power to appoint a chairman from its members and also a clerk from its members, which clerk shall keep a record of the acts and doings of said board.
(Ga. L. 1922, p. 642, § 9)
Sec. 8-8. - Same—Authority of mayor and council to act as board; duties.
(a)
So long as, or when at any time, the mayor and council see fit to operate without a board of tax assessors as hereinabove provided, it, the said mayor and council, shall act in the capacity of a board of tax assessors, with the powers and subject to the provisions hereinafter set forth. In such event, it shall be the duty of the mayor and council to value and assess all property, real and personal, within said city, subject to taxation, whether same or any part thereof has been returned for taxation or not.
(b)
In the event the valuation of property returned for taxation shall be raised or increased by said mayor and council in making its assessment thereon, due notice shall be given, in writing, by the city clerk, to the owner thereof, his agent or legal representative, in such manner as the mayor and council may by ordinance prescribe, of such assessment and of the time and place when and where said mayor and council will pass upon; and finally fix such assessment; reasonable time, as may be fixed by ordinance, being given said owner, his agent or legal representative, in order that said owner, his agent or legal representative, may have an opportunity of being heard by said mayor and council upon the question of said valuation and assessment. Like notice and action shall be given and taken by said mayor and council as to property not returnable for taxation by the owner, his agent or legal representative, but which is subject to taxation by said city. The valuation and assessment by said mayor and council, upon and after such hearing, shall be final.
(Ga. L. 1922, p. 642, § 10)
Sec. 8-9. - Authority to promulgate rules, regulations; right to hearing, to review.
(a)
The mayor and council of said city is hereby vested with power to prescribe by ordinance, not inconsistent herewith, rules and regulation necessary to carry into effect the intent and purposes of this Act with reference to the valuation and assessment of property subject to taxation in said city.
(b)
The mayor and council shall provide by ordinance for due and proper notice to the owner, his agent or legal representative, in case the valuation of his property, or any part thereof, shall have been raised or increased by said board of tax assessors, or by the mayor and council, as the case may be; or in the case of the valuation and assessment of unreturned property by said board, or by mayor and council, as the case may be, in order that such owner, his agent or legal representative may have a hearing thereon before said board, or before the mayor and council as the case may be; and should such owner, his agent or legal representative be dissatisfied with the valuation and assessment of his property, after being heard thereon by said board, to provide details for appeal by such owner, his agent or legal representative, from the valuation and assessment of said board to the mayor and council of said city, and for the hearing and determination of such appeal.
(Ga. L. 1922, p. 642, § 11)
Sec. 8-10. - Unreturned, unassessed property; authority of board or mayor and council.
With respect to property, real or personal, subject to taxation by the City of College Park, which has not been returned nor assessed for taxation for a former year or years, and the tax thereon for such year or years remains unpaid the board of tax assessors of said city, elected by the mayor and council thereof, or whenever the city is without such a board, the mayor and council acting in the capacity of a board of tax assessors, shall at any time thereafter during the period of limitation allowed by law, exercise the powers, perform the duties and function in the manner, as set forth with respect to unreturned property in sections 8, 10 and 11 [sections 8-6, 8-8 and 8-9 herein] of the Act of the General of College Park, approved August 15, 1922 (Georgia Laws 1922, pages 663, 664, 665 and 666), relating to board of tax assessors of and assessment of property for taxes in said city.
(Ga. L. 1925, p. 974, § 4)
Sec. 8-11. - Discount; authority to grant.
The mayor and council of said City of College Park be and they are hereby authorized in their discretion to offer to the taxpayers of said city a certain percentage of the whole amount of their ad valorem or property tax as a discount on the full amount of said taxes if the same are paid on or before a certain time. The said mayor or council shall have the power to pass any ordinance or resolution to carry this provision into effect and may determine in said resolution or ordinance the amount of the percentage discount and the time fixed for which payment must be made in order to obtain said discount. This provision shall in no way affect the present tax rate of said city, but is simply a discount for a premature payment of taxes.
(Ga. L. 1913, p. 682, § 17)
Sec. 8-12. - Issuance of bonds; interest limited.
In addition to any and all other bonds heretofore issued or authorized to be issued by the mayor and council of the City of College Park, and subject to the limitation of bonded debt provided by the constitution of this state, the mayor and council of the City of College Park be and they are hereby authorized in their discretion to issue and sell any amount or amounts of bonds for any legal municipal purpose, including those purposes for which bonds are already authorized to be issued by said city, when authorized by an election or elections held on the question of the issuance of such bonds, as provided by law.
(Ga. L. 1925, p. 974, § 6; Ord. No. 72-34, § 6-5-72)
Cross reference— Bonds authorized for public improvements generally, § 6-1-(b).
Sec. 8-13. - Bond commission—Establishment.
(a)
Created, members: There is hereby created a bond commission in and for the City of College Park, to be known as the College Park Bond Commission, which commission shall be composed of the mayor and councilmen of said city, and their respective successors in office, together with two (2) citizen members from and residing in each of the wards of said city, who are not members of the mayor and council of said city; … [13] Terms of the citizen members of said commission shall continue so long as said members remain resident of their respective wards, and until their successors are elected and qualified. In case of a vacancy at any time in the citizenship membership of said commission by death, resignation, removal or otherwise, such vacancy shall be filled by election by the mayor and council of said city.
(b)
Organization: The mayor of said city shall be chairman of said commission and the city clerk of said city shall be secretary and treasurer of said commission, but the city clerk shall not be deemed a member of said commission, nor entitled to vote in the deliberation and actions thereof.
(c)
Treasurer: As treasurer of said commission said city clerk shall have the custody of the proceeds of bond issues held and expended by such commission and shall give bond in such sum as the commission may determine, and with good security, to be approved by the commission for the faithful performance of his duties as such treasurer.
(Ga. L. 1924, p. 503, § 4)
Footnotes:
--- (13) ---
Editor's note— Sec. 4 of Ga. Laws 1924, p. 503 also provided "that said citizen members shall be as follows: First Ward, George F. Longino, Jr. and Baynard Willingham; Second Ward, P. W. Fitzpatrick and K. E. Foster; Third Ward, John W. Bryant and B. A. Creel." It should be noted that the city now consists of six wards.

Sec. 8-14. - Same—Duties.
(a)
Funds from bond sales: All moneys which the City of College Park now has on hand arising from the sale of bonds shall, upon the passage and approval of this Act, be delivered and turned over to the College Park Bond Commission created by section 4 [section 8-13] of this Act, and all moneys arising from the sale of any and all bonds, including school bonds, which may hereafter be issued by said city, shall, upon their receipt by the city, be likewise delivered and turned over to said commission; and said commission shall have the right, power and authority, and it shall be the duty of said commission, to hold, control, handle, and expend all such moneys for the purpose or purposes for which such bonds have been or may be issued; to make any and all contracts involving the expenditures of such moneys which may be necessary in carrying out such purpose or purposes, and to determine the manner in which such expenditures shall be made.
(b)
Contracts: Said commission shall also carry out any and all contracts already made by the mayor and council of said city for or in connection with the purposes for which the bond moneys now on hand were authorized.
(c)
Reports: Said commission shall make a detailed written report of its receipts and expenditures and of its actings and doings, to the mayor and council of said city at least every six (6) months, and at such times as such report may be required by said mayor and council.
(Ga. L. 1924, p. 503, § 5)
Sec. 8-15. - Sinking fund commission—Created; terms, compensation of members; organization.
A sinking fund commission of the City of College Park is hereby created, to be composed of three (3) citizens of said city, who are freeholders, to be chosen by the mayor and council as follows: The said mayor and council shall, as soon as practical after the passage of this Act, select from the citizens of said city three (3) commissioners, one (1) to serve (1) year or until his successor is elected and qualified, one (1) to serve two (2) years or until his successor is elected and qualified, and one (1) to serve three (3) years or until his successor is elected and qualified, and the successor of each of those first appointed shall hold office for three (3) years or until their successors are elected and qualified, and at the expiration of the term for which each commissioner is appointed his successor shall be elected by said mayor and council. The members of said commission shall in no way be connected with the municipal government of said city and they shall serve without compensation but council shall provide for the payment of the necessary expenses of said commission. The commissioners shall select from their number of chairman who shall hold office for one (1) year or until his successor is elected and qualified. The clerk of said city shall be ex officio clerk of said board and shall keep a correct record of all its proceedings. The treasurer of said city shall keep a correct account of the receipts and disbursements of said board of commissioners. Said records and accounts shall be kept in books separate from the other books of the municipality.
(Ga. L. 1908, p. 547, § 8)
Sec. 8-16. - Same—Duties; sinking fund.
(a)
Fund created: The said commission shall handle and control such sums as shall from time to time be turned over to it for the purpose of raising a sinking fund or funds for the final redemption of the bonds of said city which now exist or may hereafter exist, and also to provide for the payment of the interest thereon.
(b)
Investments: Said commission may invest such funds in bonds of the United States or of the State of Georgia or of the municipalities of said state, which have been legally validated.
(c)
Duty of mayor and council, treasurer: The mayor and council shall immediately turn over to said commission all taxes and other funds levied and collected for the purpose of paying off any bonded debt of said city or interest thereon. The treasurer of said city shall upon his official books open an account with said commission and pass to their credit all the money collected to pay the bonded debt of said city and the interest thereon, as soon as such funds are collected, and shall keep said funds so received separate and distinct from the general or other funds of said city, and shall pay the same of any part thereof, upon demand and as may be required by the said commission upon their warrant signed by the chairman of said board. The fund for any specific bonded indebtedness shall be kept separate and distinct from all other funds. All bonds in which funds may be so invested shall be turned over by the commissioners to the treasurer of said city.
(d)
Records: The commissioner shall keep a record of all their proceedings, and the clerk of said city, who is ex officio clerk of said commission, shall exhibit said records to the mayor and council whenever called upon by them to do so.
(Ga. L. 1908, p. 547, § 9; Ga. L. 1925, p. 974, § 2)
Sec. 8-17. - Fiscal administration.
(a)
Fiscal year designated; adoption of financial plan: The fiscal year of the city shall begin on the first day of July and continue through the thirtieth day of June in each year. During the month of June each year, the mayor and council shall adopt a financial plan for the conduct of the affairs of the city for the ensuing fiscal year. In the preparation of the budget, the mayor and council shall obtain from the head of each office department or agency, estimates of anticipated revenues and expenditures detailed by organization units and character and object of expenditure and shall obtain an estimate of all capital projects pending or which are anticipated within the next fiscal year.
(Ord. No. 72-30, § 1, 6-5-72)
(b)
Budget, contents: The budget shall provide a complete financial plan for the ensuing fiscal year, and shall include, but not limited to, a detailed estimated of all anticipated revenue and proposed expenditures with enumeration of debt service requirements, appropriations required by statute and for other purposes.
(c)
Limit on disbursements; fund accounts required: The disbursements in the budget year, for all departments and agencies shall not exceed the prior year's unexpended balance plus the total anticipated receipts for such budget year as set forth in such annual budget plus the proceeds from the sale of bonds and revenue anticipation certificates authorized during or before such budget year, plus proceeds from sales of city properties not expressly included in the itemized budget year, plus proceeds from sales of city properties not expressly included in the itemized budget statement of any department or agency for such year. Such annual budget shall include, in addition to such itemized statements for the various departments and agencies of said city a contingency fund account, and a separate and distinct bond and sinking fund account, and a separate and distinct revenue certificate sinking fund account.
(d)
First budget appropriation: The first appropriation of the budget shall provide fund sufficient to cover outstanding obligations to become due during the ensuing year, debt service, and cost of financing debt service in full, including interest and the sinking fund requirements of any outstanding indebtedness, which funds shall not be diverted to any other purpose until such obligation are paid in full.
(e)
Authority of mayor and council: The mayor and council may by ordinance adopt such limitations upon changing or altering the budget after adoption as said body deems necessary, not inconsistent with this Act. However, no change shall be made in the budget until same shall be introduced at a regular meeting of the mayor and council, and shall not be adopted until the next succeeding regular meeting.
(f)
Budget adjustments: Should the anticipated income of the city be either increased or decreased by a change in the tax rate or in the assessed value of property subject to taxation, the mayor and council shall within fifteen (15) day after such change adjust the budget accordingly for the remainder of the fiscal year. However, should any city property be destroyed or damaged by fire, windstorm or other casualty, the mayor and council may appropriated at any time for the restoration of such property any amount realized from insurance thereon, but any additional appropriation shall comply with the formalities herein provided.
(g)
Effect of provisions: This Act does not prohibit the appropriation of funds for the support of a hospital authority as provided by law, or any other appropriation provided by law. Nothing herein shall be construed to restrain or limit the city in the amount of taxes that may be levied by the governing authority thereof which are otherwise authorized by law.
(Ga. L. 1963, p. 2340, §§ 1—7)
