Chapter 18 - HEALTH AND SANITATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 18-1—18-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WATER TESTING

Sec. 18-19. - Title.
These regulations shall be known and may be cited as the "Water Testing Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 1997-1, § 1, 5-5-1997)
Sec. 18-20. - Jurisdiction.
This article shall govern the rights of all citizens of the city to have their water tested at the expense of the city.
(Ord. No. 1997-1, § 2, 5-5-1997)
Sec. 18-21. - Purpose.
This article and restriction on the testing of water furnished to citizens of the city is imposed and designed only for the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens and to prevent any abuse and loss of public funds unnecessarily.
(Ord. No. 1997-1, § 3, 5-5-1997)
Sec. 18-22. - Regulations and restrictions.
(a)
Upon any complaint by any occupant of a building that is furnished water by the city concerning the quality of water being furnished to said building, the city will at its own expense take a sample of the water and have it tested to ensure that the quality of the water is fit for drinking purposes as required by state and federal law. The city must be given permission by the owner or resident of the building to take its own sample. No sample will be tested unless the sample is obtained by an employee or agent of the city.
(b)
Once the city tests the water going to a particular location, if the test shows that the water is fit for human consumption within the parameters set by state and federal law, the city will not pay for any additional tests at said location for a period of 12 consecutive months thereafter.
(c)
Provided, however, that any occupier of property in the city who is supplied water may request a second testing during the period stated in subsection (b) of this section during which the city will not pay for such testing, provided that the occupant pays in advance to the city any anticipated charges by the testing service as well as a fee to the city for obtaining the water sample and sending it off to the testing service. The fee shall be as established from time to time by the city council and made available for examination at city hall. Once this nonrefundable fee is paid to the city, the city will then have the water tested on behalf of the occupant.
(d)
The city will take any and all steps necessary to correct any water problem as required by state and federal law should the test show up positive for bacteria and other substances which are not acceptable by state or federal law. Provided, however, that should the cost of repairing the water system be prohibitive, the city at its option may terminate water services to its citizens in the affected area. Nothing contained in this article shall require the city to correct any problem with the water supply that is caused by some condition from the meter to the complaining occupant's building.
(e)
The city shall at all times have the right to shut down the supply of water to any building in which a contamination exists during the entire period of contamination until the problem is corrected.
(Ord. No. 1997-1, § 4, 5-5-1997)
