ARTICLE XXVI. - INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT AND ENFORCEMENT (Amended 3-6-91)

26.1 - Interpretation.
The Director of the Department of Environment and Community Development shall interpret the provisions to this resolution, and may utilize opinions of the county attorney and others in arriving at interpretations. Appeals from an interpretation of the Director of the Department of Environment and Community Development shall be in accordance with the provisions of article XXII. (Amended 11-3-93, 2-7-01)
26.2 - Conflict.
This resolution shall abrogate any other regulations previously adopted or issued that are in conflict with any of the provisions of this resolution relating to the use of buildings or land in conflict with this resolution. This resolution shall not annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties; provided, however, that whenever this resolution imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or land than are imposed by such easements, covenants or agreements, the provisions of the resolution shall control.
26.3 - Enforcement.
It shall be the duty of the Director of the Department of Environment and Community Development to enforce the provisions of this resolution. In addition, it shall be the duty of all officers and employees of the county, especially members of the police department, sheriff's department and marshal's office, to assist the Director of the Department of Environment and Community Development by reporting to him any seeming violations, including violations in new construction, reconstruction, and/or land uses including signs. appeals from the decision of the Director of the Department of Environment and Community Development shall be made as provided in article XXII, Appeals. (Amended 11-3-93, 2-7-01)
26.4 - Permits in effect.
Nothing herein shall require any change in the plans, construction, size or designated use of any land, building, structure or part thereof for which a building permit or land disturbance permit was issued prior to the effective date of this resolution or amendment thereto.
