Chapter 74 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverage excise taxes, § 6-36 et seq.; businesses, ch. 18; finance, § 102-251 et seq.; resolutions pertaining to taxation, ch. 170.
Local Constitutional Amendments and Local Acts reference—Taxation, ch. 58.
State Law reference— Limitation on taxing power of municipalities and counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ VIII; taxation power of municipal and county governments, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ I.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 74-1—74-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - METROPOLITAN ATLANTA RAPID TRANSIT SALES AND USE TAX
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 74-31. - Authority of article.
This article is enacted by Fulton County, Georgia (the county), pursuant to the authority granted to the county under the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority Act of 1965, as amended (the act).
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. I), 7-3-91)
Sec. 74-32. - Short title of article.
This article shall be known as the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Sales and Use Tax Resolution. The tax levied by this resolution shall be known as the rapid transit sales and use tax.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. I, § 1), 7-3-91)
Sec. 74-33. - Purpose and levy of tax.
The county has entered into a rapid transit contract and assistance agreement with DeKalb County, Georgia (DeKalb), and the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority (authority) as of September 1, 1971, that has become final and binding upon the county by compliance with the provisions of section 24 of the act and approval of the voters as therein required, (as amended, the rapid transit contract). Pursuant to the authority of section 25 of the act, this tax is hereby levied and imposed as a retail sales and use tax upon the retail purchase, retail sale, rental, storage, use or consumption of tangible personal property, and the services described and set forth in the Georgia Retailers' and Consumers' Sales and Use Tax Act (Georgia Sales and Use Tax Act), in 1951 Ga. Laws, page 360, as amended, which is now codified as O.C.G.A. tit. 48, ch. 8, art. 1 (O.C.G.A. § 48-8-1 et seq.), and as it may be from time to time amended, except as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-8-625(a), and except as otherwise provided by law, on sales, uses and services rendered, in the geographical area governed by the county. Each transaction in the geographic area of the county which (1) is subject to the tax levied by the Georgia Sales and Use Tax Act; or (2) involves the retail sale, rental, storage, or consumption of motor fuel as described below; or (3) may otherwise by law be subject to the rapid transit sales and use tax, shall be subject to the rapid transit sales and use tax.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. I, § 2), 7-3-91)
Sec. 74-34. - Rate.
This tax is levied at the rate of one percent for the period from April 1, 1972, until June 30, 2032, or such other later date as may be provided from time to time by section 25(b) of the act, and shall thereafter be reduced to one-half of one percent. As required by 1971 Ga. Laws, pages 2082—2092, said tax shall be added to and collected with the sales and use tax imposed by the Georgia Sales and Use Tax Act, and the state revenue commissioner, pursuant to that act, is hereby authorized and directed to establish a bracket system by appropriate rules and regulations to collect the tax herein imposed by the county, provided that the tax levied upon the transactions described in section 74-33(2) and (3) shall be administered and collected by the state revenue commissioner in the same manner as the sales and use tax collected pursuant to the Georgia Sales and Use Tax Act.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. I, § 3), 7-3-91)
Sec. 74-35. - Motor fuel.
The rapid transit sales and use tax hereby levied shall apply, any law to the contrary notwithstanding, to the retail sale, rental, storage, use, or consumption of motor fuel as the term "motor fuel" is defined by O.C.G.A. § 48-9-2(9).
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. I, § 4), 7-3-91)
Sec. 74-36. - Other transactions.
The rapid transit sales and use tax hereby levied shall apply to any transaction that may now or hereafter be subject by law to the rapid transit sales and use tax.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. I, § 5), 7-3-91)
Sec. 74-37. - Use of proceeds.
The proceeds of the tax levied pursuant to this article shall be used solely by the county to fulfill the obligations incurred in the rapid transit contract entered into with the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. I, § 6), 7-3-91)
Secs. 74-38—74-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 74-71. - Collection procedures.
The tax levied by this article shall be collected and administered in accordance with 1971 Ga. Laws, pages 2082—2092, as amended. The retail sales and use tax shall be administered and collected solely by the state revenue commissioner in the same manner and subject to the same penalties provided for in the Georgia Sales and Use Tax Act. No variance shall be permitted between the Georgia sales and use tax and the rapid transit sales and use tax, except as to rate, except as provided in section 25(a) of the act, and except as may be otherwise provided by law. The vendor's responsibility shall be to the state revenue commissioner and not to the county. The county shall not make sales tax audits. Dealers shall be allowed a percentage of the amount of the tax due and accounted for pursuant to this article and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and paying the amount due, if said amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be at the same rate authorized for deductions from state tax under the Georgia Sales and Use Tax Act, as now or hereafter amended.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. II, § 1), 7-3-91)
Sec. 74-72. - Special fund.
All sales and use tax monies collected by the state revenue commissioner under this article shall be paid to the director of the fiscal division of the department of administrative services to the credit of a special fund which is on the books of the fiscal division of the department of administrative services under the name "Collection of Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority Taxes," and such sales and use tax monies shall be credited to the account of the county.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. II, § 2), 7-3-91)
Sec. 74-73. - Distribution of funds.
As soon as practicable after the rapid transit sales and use tax monies collected under this article have been paid into the state treasury, in any month for the preceding month, the director of the fiscal division of the department of administrative services shall draw his warrant on the state treasury in the proper amount due the county in favor of the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority (authority), which payment the authority shall credit to the county in the appropriate amount and which payment shall be charged to the account of the county under the special fund described above in section 74-72. Any errors made in any such payments or any adjustments otherwise necessary, whether attributable to refunds to taxpayers or by some other fact, shall be corrected, and adjustments shall be made in such payments for the next month or subsequent months. The amount due the county shall be reduced by the amount of costs incurred by the department of revenue in the administration and collection of the rapid transit sales and use tax. The amount of costs of the department shall be certified by the state revenue commissioner to the director of the fiscal division of the department of administrative services who shall deduct such amount from the amount due to the county. The amount deducted shall be deposited by the director of the fiscal division of the department of administrative services in the state treasury to the credit of the general fund.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. II, § 3), 7-3-91)
Sec. 74-74. - Rules and regulations.
The state revenue commissioner shall have the power to make and publish reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with this article or other laws, or the Constitutions of the State of Georgia or of the United States for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this article and the collection of revenues hereunder.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. II, § 4), 7-3-91)
Sec. 74-75. - Forms.
The state revenue commissioner shall utilize the forms used for returns and for the payment of taxes pursuant to the Georgia Sales and Use Tax Act and for the payment of the tax on motor fuel, and shall add appropriate forms for the use of those persons with the responsibility of collecting the tax levied pursuant to this article.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. II, § 5), 7-3-91)
Secs. 74-76—74-105. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - INCORPORATION OF STATE SALES AND USE TAX ACT

Sec. 74-106. - Incorporation.
Pursuant to the authority granted in section 25 of the act, the Georgia Sales and Use Tax Act (codified as O.C.G.A. tit. 48, ch. 8, art. 1 (O.C.G.A. § 48-8-1 et seq.)), as amended, and as it may be from time to time amended, subject to section 74-71 hereinabove, is incorporated herein, made a part hereof, and reenacted as a part of this article, insofar as it may apply to the collection, administration, and disposition of the tax authorized by the General Assembly of Georgia in 1971 Ga. Laws, pages 2082—2092, as amended. Such portions of said Georgia Sales and Use Tax Act which are inconsistent with or specifically do not apply to the collection of the rapid transit sales and use tax are hereby excluded from incorporation. The Georgia Sales and Use Tax Act is further limited and changed as specifically set forth in this article so as to define the imposition, administration and operation of the said Georgia Act as it applies to the collection of the rapid transit sales and use tax in this or other counties which are now or may later join in the imposition of this tax.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. II, § 1), 7-3-91)
Sec. 74-107. - Amendments.
All amendments to the Georgia Sales and Use Tax Act subsequent to the date of the enactment of this article which are not inconsistent with the provisions and intent of this article shall automatically be incorporated in and become a part of this article.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. II, § 2), 7-3-91)
Sec. 74-108. - Substitutions and limitations to the Georgia Sales and Use Tax Act.
(a)
Rate. Except where the rapid transit sales and use tax is added to the tax imposed by the Georgia Sales and Use Tax Act for the purposes of establishing a bracket system, or for similar purposes of combining the two taxes, wherever a rate is set forth in the Georgia Sales and Use Tax Act, there shall be substituted therefor a rate which shall be equal to one percent until June 30, 2032, or such later date as may be provided from time to time by section 25(b) of the act, and thereafter the rate shall be equal to one-half of one percent.
(b)
Taxing district. Wherever the terms "state" or "State of Georgia" appear in the Georgia Sales and Use Tax Act, where such terms are used to define the taxing agency, taxing district or the taxing boundaries, the term "county" shall be substituted therefor in order to define the area in which this tax is imposed. Where the terms "state," "State of Georgia," or "Georgia" shall appear with reference to portions of that act other than specified above, no substitution shall be made, unless the resulting interpretation would be clearly contrary to the intent expressed in this article.
(c)
Coverage of the tax. In addition to those transactions to be taxed under the Georgia Sales and Use Tax Act, the rapid transit sales and use tax shall (as provided in section 25 of the act) apply to the retail sale, rental, storage, use, or consumption of motor fuel as the term "motor fuel" is defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-9-2(9), just as if said retail sale, rental, storage, use, or consumption of motor fuel were subject to the tax imposed by the Georgia Sales and Use Tax Act, and the rapid transit sales and use tax shall apply to such other transactions that may otherwise by law be subject to the rapid transit sales and use tax.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. II, § 3), 7-3-91)
Secs. 74-109—74-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 74-141. - Effective date.
The effective date of the tax authorized by this article shall be April 1, 1972, provided that with respect to services which are regularly billed on a monthly basis, the tax shall become effective with the first regular billing period coinciding with or following the effective date of the tax as herein specified.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. IV, § 1), 7-3-91)
Sec. 74-142. - Application to contracts existing at time of enactment.
The tax imposed under this article shall not apply to sales of goods made pursuant to bona fide written contracts entered into before the date of the enactment of this article, provided delivery is completed prior to April 1, 1972; or to the purchase price of any building supplies, fixtures, or equipment that enter into or become a part of a building or other kind of structure in this county, where plans, specifications, and a construction contract for a specific project have been entered into prior to the date of the enactment of this article, provided delivery is completed prior to April 1, 1972. The provisions of this section shall supersede and replace the provisions of section 3403aC.(2)(e) of the Georgia Sales and Use Tax Act.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. IV, § 2), 7-3-91)
Sec. 74-143. - Tax credit.
The tax imposed under this article shall not apply in respect to the use, consumption, distribution, or storage of tangible personal property for use or consumption in this county upon which a rapid transit sales and use tax equal to or greater than the amount imposed by or under this article has been paid in another county or municipality, the proof of payment of such tax to be according to rules and regulations made by the state revenue commissioner. If the amount of tax paid to another county or municipality is not equal to or greater than the amount of tax imposed under this article, then the dealer shall pay an amount sufficient to make the tax paid in the other county or municipality and in the county equal to the tax imposed under this article. No credit shall be given under this section for taxes paid in another county or municipality if that county or municipality does not grant a like credit for taxes paid in the county.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. IV, § 3), 7-3-91)
Sec. 74-144. - Notice to Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority of dealer-purchaser litigation.
Where suit is filed between the dealer and purchaser or consumer as described in O.C.G.A. §§ 48-8-35, 48-8-41, and where the issue of taxability is raised in any such case, the person who raised such issue shall furnish the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority a copy of the initial pleading wherein such issue is raised, receipt of which shall be acknowledged by the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority, and such acknowledgement filed in the court wherein such case is pending.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. IV, § 4), 7-3-91)
Sec. 74-145. - Intercounty transactions.
(a)
The rapid transit sales and use tax imposed by this article is also levied in the geographic area of DeKalb County, Georgia (DeKalb), and may hereafter be levied in the Counties of Clayton, Gwinnett, and Cobb if they satisfy the requirements of the act and become a party to the rapid transit contract dated as of September 1, 1971, between the authority, Fulton, and the county. For the purposes of this article, the rapid transit sales and use tax is a retail sales and use tax upon the retail purchase, retail sale, rental, storage, use, or consumption of tangible personal property and the services described and set forth in 1951 Ga. Laws, page 360 (now codified as O.C.G.A. tit. 48, ch. 8, art. 1 (O.C.G.A. § 48-8-1 et seq.)), as now or hereafter amended, and upon the retail sale, rental, storage, use, or consumption of motor fuel as the term "motor fuel" is defined by O.C.G.A. § 48-9-2(9), and upon such other transactions which may otherwise be subject by law to the rapid transit sales and use tax, on sales, uses, and services rendered in the geographic area governed by this county:
(1)
The rapid transit sales and use tax is deemed to be a point of sale tax pursuant to which all retail sales are, regardless of the residence of the purchaser and place of delivery, consummated at the place of business of the retailer.
(2)
All retail sales of goods and services by retailers located in the county to persons in the county or in any other county levying a rapid transit sales and use tax are taxable.
(3)
All retail sales of goods and services by retailers located in the county to persons outside of the county and any other county levying a rapid transit sales and use tax are taxable; provided, however, that no rapid transit sales and use tax shall be imposed upon the sale of tangible personal property which is ordered by and delivered to the purchaser at a point outside the geographical area governed by any of the local governments imposing the tax, regardless of the point at which title passes, if such delivery is made by the seller's vehicle, U.S. mail, common carrier, or by private or contract carrier licensed by the Interstate Commerce Commission or the Georgia Public Service Commission.
(4)
All goods and services purchased by persons resident in this county or in any other county levying a rapid transit sales and use tax, said sales being made by a retailer outside of this county or any other county levying a rapid transit sales and use tax, are subject to a use tax, and said use tax shall be collected by the retailer who shall remit such tax to the state revenue department.
(5)
All sales of goods and services made to a resident of this county or in any other county levying a rapid transit sales and use tax by retailers out of the State of Georgia are taxable to the same extent said transactions are taxable under the Georgia Retailers' and Consumers' Sales and Use Tax Act.
(6)
All sales made by retailers in this county or in any other county levying a rapid transit sales and use tax where the tangible personal property or services are delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out of state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to out of state destinations are taxable only to the extent such services are taxable under the Georgia Retailers' and Consumers' Sales and Use Tax Act, are otherwise taxable in accordance with section 25(a) of the act, or may otherwise by law be subject to the rapid transit sales and use tax.
(b)
The basis for credit to the account of a local government when a sale involves two or more areas subject to the rapid transit sales and use tax, shall be the point of sale. The rapid transit sales and use tax shall not be due on any tangible personal property or services the point of sale of which has already created liability for the rapid transit sales and use tax. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state or has more than one place of business, the place at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations made and published by the state revenue commissioner.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. IV, § 5), 7-3-91)
Sec. 74-146. - Penalties and interest.
All penalties and interest collected under the provisions of this article on sales and use tax assessments shall be prorated between the state and the county on such basis as may be prescribed by the state revenue commissioner.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. IV, § 6), 7-3-91)
Sec. 74-147. - Act and article as contracts.
The act and this article constitute contracts with the holders of revenue bonds issued under the act, as declared in section 10(q) of the act, and said contracts are made in part for the purpose of securing and inducing investors to buy the revenue bonds of the authority, and the provisions of the federal and Georgia Constitutions prohibiting the passage of laws impairing the obligations of contracts protect the rights and security of the holders of such bonds under such contracts from impairment by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia or by the county.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. IV, § 7), 7-3-91)
Sec. 74-148. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this article shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this article, which shall remain in full force and effect, as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional was not originally a part hereof. The county hereby declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this article if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
(91-RM-294, § 5(art. IV, § 8), 7-3-91)
Secs. 74-149—74-180. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - HOTEL/MOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— County hotel/motel occupancy tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.

Sec. 74-181. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases are for the purpose of this article, and except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning, defined as follows:
County means Fulton County, Georgia.
Director of finance means the director of the department of finance of Fulton County, Georgia or the director's designee.
Guestroom means a room occupied, or intended, arranged, or designed, for occupancy, by one or more occupants.
Hotel means any structure or any portion of a structure, including any lodging house, rooming house, dormitory, Turkish bath, bachelor hotel, studio hotel, motel, auto court, inn, public club, or private club, containing guestrooms and which is occupied, or is intended or designed for occupancy, by guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor, or otherwise. It does not include any jail, hospital, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, prison, detention, or other buildings in which human beings are housed or detained under legal restraint.
Monthly period means the calendar months of any year.
Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of any room or apartment in a hotel or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Occupant means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right to use or possess any room in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use or other agreement, or otherwise.
Operator means any person operating a hotel in Fulton County, Georgia, including, but not limited to, the owner or proprietor of such premises, lessee, subleasee, mortgage in possession, licensee, or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
Permanent resident means any occupant as of a given date who has or shall have occupied, or has or shall have the right of occupancy, of any guestroom in a hotel for at least thirty consecutive days.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or other group or combination acting as a unit excepting the United States of America, the State of Georgia, and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the county is without power to impose the tax herein provided.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction there from whatsoever.
Return means any return filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
Tax means the tax imposed by this article.
(Code 1983, § 33-6-1; Res. No. 06-0472, 5-3-06; Res. No. 10-0895, 9-15-10)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 74-182. - Imposition and rate of tax.
(a)
There shall be paid a tax of three percent of the rent for every occupancy of a guestroom in a hotel in Fulton County. The tax imposed by this article shall be paid upon any occupancy on and after May 1, 1975, although such occupancy is had pursuant to a contract, lease, or other arrangement made prior to such date. Where rent is paid, or charged or billed, or falls due on either a weekly, monthly, or other term basis, the rent so paid, charged, billed, or falling due shall be subject to the tax herein imposed to the extent that it covers any portion of the period from May 1, 1975; and such payment, bill, charge, or rent due shall be apportioned on the basis of the ratio of the number of days covered thereby. Where any tax has been paid therefore, the director of finance may, by regulation, provide for credit or refund of the amount of such tax upon application therefore as provided in section 74-187 of this article.
(b)
For one continuous three-year period commencing on June 1, 1987, the tax payable under this section shall be six percent, and an amount equal to at least 60 percent of the total taxes collected under this section shall be expended for one or more of the following purposes:
(1)
Promoting tourism, conventions, and trade shows;
(2)
Supporting a facility owned or operated by a state authority for convention and trade show purposes, or any other similar or related purposes;
(3)
Supporting a facility owned or operated by a local authority or local government for convention and trade show purposes, or any other similar or related purposes, if such facility is substantially completed and in operation prior to July 1, 1987;
(4)
Supporting a facility owned or operated by a local government or local authority for convention and trade show purposes, or any other similar or related purposes, if the construction of such facility is funded or was funded in whole or in part by a grant of state funds; or
(5)
For some combination of such purposes. Amounts so expended shall be expended only through a contract or contracts with the state, a department of state government, a state authority, or a private sector nonprofit organization, or through a contract or contracts with some combination of such entities, except that amounts expended for the purposes described in subsections (b)(3) and (b)(5) of this section may be so expended in any otherwise lawful manner.
(c)
From and after June 1, 1990, the tax payable under this section shall be five percent; and an amount equal to the amount by which the total tax is collected exceeds the taxes which would be collected at a rate of three percent shall be expended for one or more of the purposes set forth in subsections (b)(1)—(5) of this section.
(d)
For purposes of this section, a "private sector nonprofit organization" may be a chamber of commerce, a convention and visitor's bureau, a regional travel association, or any other private group organized for similar purposes which is qualified as a nonprofit organization for federal income tax purposes under the Federal Internal Revenue Code.
(Code 1983, § 33-6-2; Res. No. 06-0472, 5-3-06)
State Law reference— Authority to levy tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51.
Sec. 74-183. - Persons liable for tax; extinguishment of liability.
Every person occupying a guestroom in a hotel in this county is liable for the tax. The liability is not extinguished until the tax has been paid to Fulton County except that a receipt from an operator maintaining a place of business in this county or from an operator who is authorized by the director of finance under such rules and regulations as he may prescribe, to collect the tax and who is, for the purposes of this article, regarded as an operator maintaining a place of business in this county, which receipt is given to the occupant pursuant to section 74-186 hereof, is sufficient to relieve the occupant from further liability for the tax to which the receipt refers.
(Code 1983, § 33-6-3; Res. No. 06-0472, 5-3-06)
Sec. 74-184. - Collection of tax by operator; receipt to occupant; rules for collection schedules.
Every operator maintaining a place of business in the county as provided in section 74-183, and renting guestrooms in the county, not exempted under section 74-186 of this article shall, at the time of collecting the rent from the occupant and on demand shall, give the occupant a receipt therefore. In all cases of transactions upon credit or deferred payment, the payment of tax to the operator may be deferred in accordance therewith, and the operator shall be liable therefore at the time and to the extent that such credits are incurred in accordance with the rate of tax owing on the amount thereof. The board of commissioners shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations prescribing methods and schedules for the collection and payment of the tax.
(Code 1983, § 33-6-4; Res. No. 06-0472, 5-3-06)
Sec. 74-185. - Unlawful advertising regarding tax.
It is unlawful for any operator to advertise or hold out or state to the public or to any guest directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator or that it will not be added to the rental of the guestroom, or that, if added, it or any part thereof will be refunded.
(Code 1983, § 33-6-5; Res. No. 06-0472, 5-3-06)
Sec. 74-186. - Exemptions.
No tax shall be imposed hereunder:
(1)
Upon a permanent resident.
(2)
Upon a corporation or association organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable, or educational purposes, or for one or more such purposes, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
(Code 1983, § 33-6-6; Res. No. 06-0472, 5-3-06)
State Law reference— Exemptions from tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51.
Sec. 74-187. - Registration of operator; form and contents; execution; certificate of authority.
(a)
Every person engaging or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel in the county shall immediately register with the director of finance of the county, on a form provided by said officer. Persons engaged in such business must so register not later than 15 days after the date such tax becomes effective and is imposed as set forth in section 74-182, but such privilege or registration after the imposition of such tax shall not relieve any person from the obligation of payment or collection of tax on and after the date of imposition thereof, regardless of registration. Such registration shall set forth the name under which such person transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of his place or places of business, and such other information to facilitate the collection of the tax as the director of finance may require. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; in case of an association or partnership, by a member or partner; in case of a corporation, by an executive officer or some person specifically authorized by the corporation to sign the registration. The director of finance shall, within ten days after such registration, issue without charge a certificate of authority to each registrant to collect the tax from the occupant, together with a duplicate thereof for each additional place of business of such registrant. Each certificate and duplicate shall state the place of business to which it is applicable and shall be prominently displayed therein so as to be seen and come to the notice readily of all occupants and persons seeking occupancy. Such certificate shall be nonassignable and nontransferable and shall be surrendered immediately to the director of finance upon the cessation of business at the location named or upon its sale or transfer.
(b)
If the director of finance deems it necessary in order to facilitate initial registration hereunder of persons engaged in business or prior to the date of imposition of tax as set forth on this article, he may prescribe provisions therefore other than those provided in this section. Such provisions shall be made to effect the purpose hereof. For such purposes, such provisions shall be in lieu of those provided herein. Such registration and the certificate thereof shall have the same effect as that provided herein.
(Code 1983, § 33-6-7; Res. No. 06-0472, 5-3-06)
Sec. 74-188. - Determinations, returns, and payments.
(a)
Due date of taxes. The tax imposed by this article shall become due and payable from the occupant at the time of occupancy of any hotel in this county. All amounts of such taxes collected by any operator shall be due and payable to the Tax Commissioner of Fulton County monthly on or before the twentieth day of every month next succeeding each respective monthly period as set forth in section 74-186.
(b)
Return; time of filing; persons required to file; execution. On or before the twentieth day of the month following each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period shall be filed with the tax commissioner in such form as the commissioner may prescribe, by every operator, liable for the payment of tax hereunder.
(c)
Contents of return. All returns shall show the gross rent, rent from permanent residents, taxable rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the related period, and such other information as required by the tax commissioner.
(d)
Delivery of return and remittance. The person required to file the return shall deliver the return, together with the remittance of the net amount of tax due to the tax commissioner at Fulton County Administration Building, Atlanta, Georgia 30303.
(e)
Collection fee allowed operators. Operators collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting, and paying the amount due, if said amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be the same rate authorized for deductions from state tax under O.C.G.A. tit. 48, ch. 8, art. 1 (O.C.G.A. § 48-8-1 et seq.), the Georgia Retailers and Consumers Sales and Use Tax Act, as now or hereafter amended.
(f)
Extension of time for filing a return and paying tax. For a good cause, the tax commissioner may extend but not to exceed one month, the time for making any return or payment of tax. No further extension of time may be granted. Any person to whom an extension of time has been granted, who makes a return and pays the tax within the period of extension shall pay in addition to the tax, interest on the amount thereof at the rate of three-quarters of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, for a period of such extension to the time of return and payment.
(Code 1983, § 33-6-8; Res. No. 06-0472, 5-3-06)
State Law reference— Commission for collection of tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-52.
Sec. 74-189. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Recomputation of tax; authority to make; basis of recomputation. If the director of finance is not satisfied with the return or returns of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the county by any person, the director of finance may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within the director of finance's possession or that may come into the director of finance's possession. One or more than one deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one or more than one period.
(b)
Interest on deficiency. The amount of the determination, exclusive of penalties, shall bear interest at the rate of three-quarters of one percent per month, or fraction thereof from the twentieth day after the close of the monthly period for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned until the day of payment.
(c)
Offsetting of overpayments. In making a determination, the director of finance may offset overpayments for a period or periods against underpayments for another period or periods, against penalties, and against the interest on underpayments. The interest on underpayments shall be computed in the manner set forth in section 74-190(c).
(d)
Penalty; negligence or disregard of rules and regulations. If any part of the deficiency for which a deficiency determination has been made is due to negligence or disregard of this chapter or other rules and regulations, a penalty of 15 percent of the amount of such deficiency shall be added thereto.
(e)
Penalty for fraud or intent to evade. If any part of the deficiency for which a deficiency determination is made due to fraud or an intent to evade any provisions of this article or other authorized rules and regulations, a penalty of 25 percent of the deficiency shall be added thereto.
(f)
Notice of director of finance's determination; service of. The director of finance or a designated representative thereof shall give to the operator written notice of his determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail, service shall be pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 9-11-4 and shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the director of finance. In case of service by mail of any notice required by this chapter the service is complete at the time of deposit in the United States post office.
(g)
Time within which notice of deficiency determination to be mailed. Except in the case of fraud, intent to evade this article, or authorized rules or regulations, or failure to make a return, every notice of a deficiency determination shall be mailed within three years after the twentieth day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period should last expire.
(Code 1983, § 33-6-9; Res. No. 06-0472, 5-3-06)
Sec. 74-190. - Determination if no return made.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts. If any person fails to make a return, the finance director shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the person, or as the case may be, of the amount of the total rentals in this county which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period or periods in respect to which the person failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is in the director of finance's possession or may come into his possession. Upon the basis of this estimate, the director of finance shall compute and determine the amount required to be paid the county adding to the sum thus arrived at a penalty equal to 15 percent thereof. One or more determinations may be made for one or for more than one period.
(b)
Manner of computation; offsets; interest. In making a determination the director of finance may offset overpayments for a period or penalties against the interest on the underpayments. The interest on underpayments shall be computed in the manner set forth in this section.
(c)
Interest on amount found due. The amount of the determination, exclusive of penalties, shall bear interest at the rate of three-quarters of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, from the twentieth day of the month following the monthly period for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned until the day of payment.
(d)
Penalty for fraud or intent to evade. If the failure of any person to file a return is due to fraud or an intent to evade this chapter or rules and regulations, a penalty of 25 percent of the amount required to be paid by the person, exclusive of penalties, shall be added thereto in addition to the 15 percent penalty provided in section 74-191.
(e)
Giving of notice; manner of service. Promptly after making his determination, the director of finance shall give to the person written notice to be served personally or by mail in the manner prescribed for service of notice of a deficiency determination.
(Code 1983, § 33-6-10; Res. No. 06-0472, 5-3-06)
Sec. 74-191. - Penalties and interest for failure to pay tax.
Any person who fails to pay any tax to the county or any amount of tax required to be collected and paid to the county within the time required shall pay a penalty of ten percent of the tax or amount of the tax, in addition to the tax or amount of tax, plus interest on the unpaid tax or any portion thereof as set forth in section 74-190(c).
(Code 1983, § 33-6-11; Res. No. 06-0472, 5-3-06)
Sec. 74-192. - Collection of tax.
(a)
Security; director of finance may exact; amount; sale of; notice of sale; return of surplus. The director of finance, whenever he deems it necessary to ensure compliance with this article, may require any person subject thereto to deposit with him such security as the director of finance may determine. The amount of the security shall be fixed by the director of finance, but shall not be greater than twice the persons' estimated average liability for the period for which he files returns, determined in such a manner as the director of finance commissioner deems proper, or $10,000.00, whichever amount is the lesser. The amount of the security may be increased by the director of finance subject to the limitations herein provided. The director of finance may sell the security at public auction, with the approval of the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County, if it becomes necessary to do so in order to recover any tax or any amount required to be collected, interest or penalty due. Notice of the sale may be served upon the person who deposited the security personally or by mail; if by mail, service shall be made in the manner prescribed for service of a notice of a deficiency determination, and shall be addressed to the person at his address as it appears in the records of the director of finance. Upon any sale, any surplus above the amounts due shall be returned to the person who deposited the security.
(b)
Notice of delinquency to persons holding, credits or property of delinquent; time for; duty of persons so notified. If any person is delinquent in the payment of the amount required to be paid by him, or in the event a determination has been made against him which remains unpaid, the director of finance may, not later than three years after the payment became delinquent, give notice thereof by registered mail to all persons in the county having in their possession or under their control any creditors or other personal property belonging to the delinquent, or owing any debts to the delinquent. After receiving the notice, the persons so notified shall neither transfer nor make any other disposition of the credits, other personal property, or debts in their possession or under their control at the time they receive the notice until the director of finance consents to a transfer or disposition or until 20 days elapse after the receipt of the notice. All persons so notified shall within five days after receipt of the notice advise the director of finance of all such credits, other personal property, or debts in their possession, under their control or owing by them.
(c)
Action for tax; time for. At any time within three years after any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected becomes due and payable and at any time within three years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, the director of finance may bring an action in the courts of this state, or any other state, or of the United States in the name of the county to collect the amount delinquent together with penalties and interest, court fees, filing fees, attorney's fees, and other legal fees incident thereto.
(d)
Duty of successors or assignees of operator to withhold tax from purchase money. If any operator liable for any amount under this article sells out his business or quits the business, his successors or assigns shall withhold sufficient of the purchase price to cover such amount until the former owner produces a receipt from the director of finance showing that he has been paid or a certificate stating that no amount is due.
(e)
Liability for failure to withhold; certificate of notice of amount due; time to enforce successor's liability. If the purchaser of a business fails to withhold the purchase price as required, he becomes personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be withheld by him to the extent of the purchase price, valued in money. Within 30 days after receiving a written request from the purchaser for a certificate, the director of finance shall either issue the certificate or mail a notice to the purchaser at his address as it appears on the records of the director of finance of the amount that must be paid as a condition of issuing the certificate. Failure of the director of finance to mail the notice will release the purchaser from any further obligation to withhold the purchase price as above provided. The time within which the obligation of a successor may be enforced shall start to run at the time the operator sells out his business or at the time that the determination against the operator becomes final, whichever event occurs the later.
(f)
Refund of tax, penalty, or interest paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected. Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty, or interest has been paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the county under this article, it may be refunded, provided a verified claim in writing therefore, stating the specific ground upon which the claim is founded, is filed with the director of finance within three years from the date of payment. The claim shall be audited and shall be made on forms provided by the director of finance. If the claim is approved by the director of finance, the county manager, and the board of commissioners, the excess amount collected or paid may be refunded or may be credited on any amounts then due and payable from the person from whom it was collected or by whom paid and the balance may be refunded to such person, his administrators, or executors.
(Code 1983, § 33-6-12; Res. No. 06-0472, 5-3-06)
Sec. 74-193. - Administration of article.
(a)
Authority of director of finance. The director of finance shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the imposition of the Hotel/Motel Occupancy Tax.
(b)
Rules and regulations. The director of finance shall have the power and authority to make and publish reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with this article or other laws of Fulton County and the State of Georgia, or the constitution of this state or the United States for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this article and the collection of the taxes hereunder.
(c)
Records required from operators; form. Every operator renting guestrooms in the county shall keep such records, receipts, invoices, and other pertinent papers in such form as the director of finance may require.
(d)
Examination of records; audits. The director of finance or any person authorized in writing by him may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any person renting guestrooms and any person liable for the tax and may investigate the character of the business of the person in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the person, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(e)
Authority to require reports; contents. In administration of the tax, the director of finance may require the filing of reports by any person or class of persons having in his or their possession or custody information relating to rentals of guestrooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the director of finance when the director of finance requires and shall set forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the date or dates of occupancy, and such other information as the director of finance may require.
(f)
Disclosure of business operators; limitation on rule. The director of finance or any person having an administrative duty under this article shall not make known in any manner whatever the business affairs, operations, or information obtained by audit of books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment, and other facilities of any operator of any other person visited or examined in the discharge of official duty, or the amount or source of income, profits, losses, or expenditures, or any particular thereof, set forth or disclosed in any return, or to permit any return or copy thereof or any book containing any abstract or particulars thereof to be seen or examined by any person not having such administrative duty under this article. Successors, receivers, trustees, executors, administrators, assignees, and guarantors, if directly interested, may be given information as to the items included in the measure and amount of unpaid tax or amounts of tax required to be collected, interest and penalties.
(Code 1983, § 33-6-13; Res. No. 06-0472, 5-3-06)
Secs. 74-194—74-225. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - MOBILE HOMES[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Ad valorem taxation of mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-440 et seq.; classification of mobile homes as a separate class of property for ad valorem property tax purposes, Ga. Const. art. VII, § I, ¶ III.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 74-226. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Mobile home means a mobile home as defined in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-131; provided, however, that those mobile homes which qualify the taxpayer for homestead exemption under Georgia law shall not be considered mobile homes and subject to the provisions of this article.
(Code 1983, § 26-2-31)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 74-227. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person, firm, or corporation who shall do any act prohibited hereby or shall fail to do any act required hereby shall be deemed to be guilty of a violation hereof and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-183. Each separate day's violation shall be deemed to be a separate offense.
(Code 1983, § 26-2-43)
State Law reference— Meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3.
Secs. 74-228—74-255. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LOCATION OR RELOCATION PERMIT AND DECAL[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Issuance of mobile home location permits; display of decals, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-492.

Sec. 74-256. - Application for decal.
Before any person shall locate or relocate a mobile home within the limits of this county, he shall apply for and obtain from the Tax Commissioner of Fulton County, a decal authorizing such location or relocation if the mobile home is to be used as a residence by the owner thereof, as a residence for others, or for any other purpose.
(Code 1983, § 26-2-32)
Sec. 74-257. - Relocation without current year location permit.
The owner of a mobile home used as a residence which is located within the limits of this county may not be relocated within the confines of the county or beyond such confines without first obtaining a current year location permit from the aforesaid tax commissioner.
(Code 1983, § 26-2-33)
Sec. 74-258. - Payment of taxes required prior to issuance of permit.
It shall be a condition precedent of issuance of any permit required by this article that the owner of said mobile home shall submit to the aforesaid tax commissioner proof that all state and county taxes theretofore accruing and payable with respect to such mobile home have in fact been paid; and, if the mobile home which is to be located or relocated is then located within any portion of the county that lies within the limits of a municipality therein, the owner shall likewise submit proof that all applicable municipal taxes have been paid before a permit may be issued.
(Code 1983, § 26-2-34)
Sec. 74-259. - Requirements for decal.
Any owner of a mobile home who has made application for the location or relocation of a mobile home and whose application meets qualifications as set out by this county as it pertains to mobile homes shall be issued a mobile home decal. The decal to be issued for location of a mobile home within the county shall be the same color as prescribed by state law and shall be affixed to the mobile home in such a manner as to cause it to be easily visible for inspection at all times it is being used as a residence within the confines of this county.
(Code 1983, § 26-2-35)
Sec. 74-260. - Relocation to another county; notification required.
Whenever a permit authorizing the relocation of a mobile home is issued and that mobile home is to be relocated within the confines of another county in this state, the Tax Commissioner of Fulton County shall notify the tax commissioner of the other county of the date of the issuance of the permit.
(Code 1983, § 26-2-36)
Sec. 74-261. - Application for location decal.
Each year every owner of a mobile home subject to taxation under the provisions of this article shall, on or before April 1, make application to the tax commissioner for a mobile home location decal and, upon payment of or proof of payment of taxes, as provided, shall be issued a location decal. Any mobile homes which are tax exempt under existing Georgia law for the year stated will furnish any proof as required to establish the tax exempt status of said mobile homes and shall be issued a location decal. The issuance of said decal by the tax commissioner shall be evidenced by the issuance of a decal, green in color, which shall reflect the county of issuance, and the calendar year for which this permit is issued. The decal shall be prominently attached and displayed on the mobile home by the owner.
(Code 1983, § 26-2-37)
Sec. 74-262. - Information required.
The tax commissioner is hereby authorized and empowered, subject to the specific provisions of this article, to require that applicants furnish such information in writing as may be reasonably required to effectuate the purposes hereof.
(Code 1983, § 26-2-38)
Sec. 74-263. - Other requirements of county continue to apply to location of mobile homes.
The issuance of any decal under the provisions of this article shall in no way be construed as superseding the requirement for the location of mobile homes as the same may be contained within appropriate resolutions or other actions of the Fulton County Planning and Zoning Commission, and the issuance of a decal under the provisions of this article shall not prohibit the planning and zoning commission from requiring a relocation of the mobile home to a place where such mobile home is permitted by the regulations of the Fulton County Planning and Zoning Commission; but in such case, the owner of the mobile home shall apply for and obtain a decal for the relocation as if such relocation was the result of his own initiative.
(Code 1983, § 26-2-39)
Sec. 74-264. - Dealers to furnish list.
All dealers in mobile homes shall furnish to the tax commissioner a list of all mobile homes in their possession, whether owned by them or not, on January 1 of each year.
(Code 1983, § 26-2-40)
Sec. 74-265. - Location prohibited without decal.
(a)
No person shall own or have located within the limits of Fulton County any mobile home unless application for a decal shall have been made and decal received as provided by this article.
(b)
No person shall hereafter initially locate any mobile home within the limits of Fulton County without having made an application for and having obtained a decal.
(c)
No person shall occupy any mobile home as a residence nor permit any other person to occupy the same as a residence unless a decal shall have been obtained as provided by this article.
(Code 1983, § 26-2-41)
Sec. 74-266. - Mobile home parks; decal required.
No owner or operator of a mobile home park shall permit any mobile home to be located or relocated within the confines of such park unless the decal required by this article shall have been obtained. No owner or operator of any mobile home park shall permit any mobile home presently located within the limits of the park owned or operated by him to remain in the park after the date of this article unless a decal authorizing the continued location as required by this article shall have been obtained. The owner or operator of a mobile home park shall furnish to the Tax Commissioner of Fulton County a complete list of all mobile home owners who have mobile homes located within such parks on January 1 of each year. Such lists are to be delivered to the tax commissioner within ten working days.
(Code 1983, § 26-2-42)
Secs. 74-267—74-300. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - DEPOSITORY FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Res. No. 06-0471, Exh. A, adopted May 3, 2006, repealed and reenacted art. V in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, said article pertained to similar subject matter as enacted by Ord. No. 97-0264, §§ 33-7-61—33-7-67, adopted March 5, 1997. See the Code Comparative Table—Ordinances and Resolutions for a detailed analysis of inclusion.
State Law reference— Local license tax on depository financial institutions, O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.

Sec. 74-301. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bank means any financial institution chartered under the laws of any state or under the laws of the United States which is authorized to receive deposits in this state and which has a corporate structure authorizing the issuance of capital stock.
Department of finance shall mean the department of Finance of Fulton County.
Director of Finance shall mean the director of the department of finance of Fulton County or the director's designee.
Depository financial institution means a bank or a savings and loan association.
Gross receipts shall mean gross receipts as defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
Savings and loan association means any financial institution, other than a credit union, chartered under the laws of any state or under the laws of the United States which is authorized to receive deposits in this state and which has a mutual corporate form.
(Ord. No. 06-0471, Exh. A, 5-3-06)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 74-302. - Tax levied; rate.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, there is hereby levied for the year 2011 and for each year thereafter an annual business license tax upon all depository financial institutions located within Fulton County at a rate of 0.25 percent of the gross receipts of said depository financial institutions.
(Ord. No. 06-0471, Exh. A, 5-3-06; Res. No. 10-1126, 9-15-10)
Sec. 74-303. - Minimum business license tax.
The minimum annual amount of business license tax due from any depository financial institution pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-91(a) shall be $1,000.00.
(Ord. No. 06-0471, Exh. A, 5-3-06)
Sec. 74-304. - Filing of return.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-91(c), each depository financial institution subject to the tax levied by this article shall file a return of the gross receipts with the Director of Finance on or before March 1 of the year following the year in which such gross receipts are measured. Said return shall be in the manner and the form prescribed by the commissioner of the department of revenue, based on the allocation method set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(d). The return shall provide the information necessary to determine the portion of the taxpayer's Georgia gross receipts to be allocated to each taxing jurisdiction in which such institution has an office. The Director of Finance shall assess and collect the tax levied pursuant to this article based upon the information provided in said return.
(Ord. No. 06-0471, Exh. A, 5-3-06)
Sec. 74-305. - Due date of taxes.
Taxes levied pursuant to this article shall be paid to the Director of Finance at the time of filing the return.
(Ord. No. 06-0471, Exh. A, 5-3-06)
Sec. 74-306. - Administrative provisions.
The Director of Finance is hereby directed to forward a copy of this article to each depository financial institution located in unincorporated Fulton County and to the home office of each such depository financial institution that does business in unincorporated Fulton County if located outside the county.
(Ord. No. 06-0471, Exh. A, 5-3-06)
Sec. 74-307. - Relation of tax to other business licenses.
The tax imposed by this article shall be in lieu of any other business license upon depository financial institutions.
(Ord. No. 06-0471, Exh. A, 5-3-06)
