Chapter 50 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Impact fees, § 58-161 et seq.; resolutions pertaining to parks and recreation, ch. 150.
Local Constitutional Amendments and Local Acts references—Authority to provide parks, § 1-114; parks and recreation, ch. 30.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 50-1. - Legal authority.
Providing parks and recreational facilities has been an accepted function of Fulton County for decades. Although the county was allowed to purchase and construct recreational facilities, the county, from 1952 to 1967, was not permitted to conduct recreation programs with its own employees. The 1967 general assembly adopted an amendment authorizing Fulton County to conduct recreational activities in unincorporated areas with county personnel. Also, in accordance with the constitutional amendments approved by the voters in 1966, the county is authorized to provide 50 percent of the annual cost of recreational programs within municipalities having less than 5,000 inhabitants. The appropriation is not to exceed $5,000.00 annually for each municipality and must be matched with funds from the municipality.
(Code 1983, § 32-1-1)
Sec. 50-2. - Park acquisition program.
(a)
Aware of its growing responsibilities in the area of parks and recreation, the county commission adopted the Fulton County Park Plan in March 1967. The park plan presents a program that should adequately provide the residents of Fulton County with park facilities necessary for their physical, mental, and moral health. As a general guide the county intends to provide parks on the basis of need, population density, interest, availability of land, aesthetics, financial resources, and to consider the utility of facilities provided by private agencies, institutions, and commercial recreation enterprises. In order to provide a well-balanced recreational program which will satisfy the needs of citizens of all ages and interests, the county envisions the development of three basic types of parks: playlot, neighborhood park and playground, and county regional parks.
(1)
Playlots. Playlots are small areas intended for the use of preschool age children who live in large apartment developments. Individual lots will vary between 2,000 and 5,000 square feet in size and will be located within one block of a resident population of between 300 and 700 people. Suggested facilities for these areas would include swings, slides, sandboxes, and protective fencing.
(2)
Neighborhood parks and playgrounds. The purpose of the neighborhood park is to serve the recreational demands of an entire neighborhood and should range in size between eight and 15 acres. A variety of facilities will be provided so that all members of the family can enjoy the park. Thus, playground apparatus including swings, slides, and play sculpture will be available for children of elementary school age. Large areas will be reserved for baseball, football, soccer, basketball, handball, tennis, and kite flying for use by teenagers and adults. Elderly citizens can enjoy paths and trails and other serene natural areas.
(3)
County regional parks. The county regional park should provide a minimum recreational area of 25 acres for large gatherings, picnics, and organized sports activities. Picnic facilities, athletic fields, lighted tennis courts, hiking trails, and a golf course will be key features of the county parks.
(b)
Other types of recreational properties may be acquired and developed as the need and availability dictates.
(Code 1983, § 32-1-2)
Sec. 50-3. - Cooperation and assistance with other public jurisdictions.
(a)
It is the intention of Fulton County to provide suitable recreational facilities in the unincorporated areas of the county and to make these available for use by all county residents. The county park system will be coordinated with the general plans and the park and recreation plans of each of the cities within the county, including the City of Atlanta, as well as with plans of other counties in the metropolitan area, State of Georgia, county board of education, and any other recreational organization which has an interest in park facilities.
(b)
To strengthen and encourage the development of recreational facilities in those municipalities with less than 5,000 population located within the county. Fulton County will provide matching funds up to $5,000.00 annually for each municipality. In order to qualify for county assistance the municipalities must submit a written request to the county commission. The request must include the following:
(1)
The request should indicate the amount desired, the program contemplated, and should be accompanied by the total estimated amount the municipality intends to spend on parks and recreation activities and facilities for the coming year.
(2)
The request should be in the form of a resolution of the municipality's governing body and must be submitted no later than two months prior to the beginning of the county's fiscal year.
(3)
The resolution shall also include a statement indicating that the money requested shall be used only on bona fide parks and recreation programs and facilities available to the general public of that municipality.
(4)
The county will determine priorities which it will support on the basis of need and capital expenditures such as purchases of land and equipment.
(5)
If approved by the county commission, the county may advance 50 percent of the matching funds at the beginning of the county's fiscal year if evidence of need is submitted by the municipality.
(6)
The remaining 50 percent of the grant will be paid immediately following a resolution passed by the municipality's governing body which confirms the total amount spent for parks and recreation and justifies the additional 50 percent. All unspent county matching funds shall be returned to the county. In the event the municipality spends more on parks and recreation than was originally estimated and its request of matching funds was less than $5,000.00, the county commission at their discretion may supplement the appropriation to the maximum of $5,000.00. The county reserves the right to request detailed supporting data on parks and recreation expenditures.
(7)
In calculating the county's contribution to a municipality for park development and recreation purposes, the value of services rendered by the county department of public works in connection with park development shall be taken into consideration.
(Code 1983, § 32-1-3)
Sec. 50-4. - Administrative procedure for the planning, development, construction, and operation of county parks.
(a)
The effectiveness of the county's park and recreation system is dependent upon the cooperation and work of the individuals, groups, and department involved.
(b)
The county manager through the county commission is charged with the responsibility of executing the county's park plan, overseeing its operation, and recommending necessary action. Within the organizational framework of the county, the department of planning and community development is assigned the task of developing, revising, and updating the master park plan in light of population data, existing parks, and location of potential sites. The department of planning and community development also is responsible for the design and layout of parks, unless the services of consultants are authorized, and for recommending stages and areas of park development.
(c)
The construction and maintenance of the county park system is the responsibility of the department of planning and community development. In parks which require special construction or maintenance, the county may adopt alternatives.
(d)
The county does not plan or anticipate an elaborate supervised recreational program, nor does it intend to duplicate services provided by other groups or municipalities. The operation of supervised recreational programs in county parks may be assigned to the City of Atlanta or other municipalities located within the county, the county board of education, civic groups, or other nonprofit organizations, eleemosynary institutions, or may be performed by county forces. It is the responsibility of the county manager to receive plans and proposals for the operation of all park facilities and to recommend a program to the county commission.
(Code 1983, § 32-1-4)
Secs. 50-5—50-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FACILITY RULES AND REGULATIONS

Sec. 50-36. - Closing hours.
All parks and other recreational facilities located within Fulton County shall close at dusk and open at dawn daily, unless posted otherwise. (Dusk is 30 minutes after sunset and dawn is 30 minutes before sunrise.) The use of park buildings and facilities for county sanctioned events shall be exempt. No person shall use or otherwise be present within any park or recreational facility when the park is closed.
(Code 1983, § 32-1-11; Amd. No. 13-0332, 5-1-13)
Sec. 50-37. - Alcoholic beverages.
No person shall possess or consume any alcoholic beverage at any time in any Fulton County park or recreational facility. The alcoholic beverages referred to in this section include any spirituous, vinous, malted, fermented, or intoxicating liquors in addition to any of the liquors or beverages defined in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
(Code 1983, § 32-1-12)
Sec. 50-38. - Discharge of firearms and possession of other weapons prohibited.
No person shall discharge within any county park or recreational facility any firearm as defined by O.C.G.A. § 16-11-171, including but not limited to rifles, pistols, shotguns, BB guns, or pellet guns. No person shall use or possess within any county park or recreational facility any bow and arrow, slingshot, or any other device (other than a firearm as defined above) capable of throwing any projectile of any sort, including the hand throwing of rocks or stones intended to be used as weapons. This section shall not be operative in any specific area now designated or to be designated in the future as a rifle range, archery range, or any other specific area whose purpose is to allow the activities otherwise prohibited by this section.
(Code 1983, § 32-1-13; Ord. No. 08-0300, 3-19-08)
Sec. 50-39. - Use of facilities.
No person shall use or permit any other person who shall then be in his custody or under his supervision to use any device, equipment, apparatus, or facility within any park or recreational facility for any purpose other than the purpose for which the device, equipment, apparatus, or facility was reasonably intended, provided that the playing of games or sports at any park or recreational facility in such a manner as to constitute a nuisance shall be deemed a violation of this section.
(Code 1983, § 32-1-14)
Sec. 50-40. - Loud and boisterous conduct.
No person shall make, continue, or cause to be made or continued, nor allow any other person who shall then be in his custody or under his supervision to make or continue or cause to be made or continued any loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise in conjunction with loud and boisterous conduct which either annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of any other person within any Fulton County park or recreational facility, and which becomes a nuisance.
(Code 1983, § 32-1-15)
Sec. 50-41. - Permits for loudspeakers required.
No person shall use, operate, or permit to be played, used, or operated any loudspeaker, amplifier, radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is passed upon any Fulton County park or recreational facility without obtaining the prior approval of the Director of the Fulton County Parks and Recreational Department. The director, when requested during his normal business hours to grant a use permit at least 48 hours in advance of the planned use, shall not unreasonably withhold his approval of the use and shall issue a use permit on any form as he shall deem appropriate. The director shall not refuse to issue any permit unless the use of the loudspeaker sought to be approved in conjunction with the use of any other loudspeakers theretofore approved by the director for use at the same time shall, in the opinion of the director, constitute a nuisance as contemplated in this section.
(Code 1983, § 32-1-16)
Sec. 50-42. - Park leash law.
(a)
No person who shall have in his possession or who shall then be responsible for any dog or other canine animal, whether or not the person be the owner of that animal, shall allow the same to run at large in any county park or recreational facility, except as may otherwise be provided by law and this code section. The health regulations and all other provisions appertaining to control of domestic animals, including dogs, shall remain in full force and effect in county parks and recreational facilities. Nothing in this section shall amend or otherwise affect the penalties for violation of any law, ordinance, or regulation dealing with control of domestic animals which violation shall have occurred in areas other than within designated county parks and recreational facilities.
(b)
Certain defined areas of selected parks shall be designated as off-leash dog areas. The county manager may designate the use of any park and recreational facility in the unincorporated areas of the county for use as a dog park where dogs may run off-leash. In designating any dog park area and establishing and putting such area into operation, the county manager may use the assistance of any county department. The designated area must be completely fenced with a double-gated entrance and exit system or may be enclosed by other means to provide limited access to the area. For purposes of this code section "owner", along with its common meaning, shall also mean any handler or person authorized to be in possession of a dog or otherwise have custody and control of a dog in the dog park.
(c)
Dog park rules. For any area of a park designated as an off-leash dog area, the rules set forth below shall apply. All of the rules below shall be posted on a sign at each entrance to the off-leash area. Neither the county, nor any county official, agent, or employee shall be liable for any damage to any person or animal who suffers any injury arising from the use of the dog park and users of the dog park do so at his/her sole risk. All users of the dog park assume the full risk of any injury, damage or loss connected with or associated with the use of the dog park. In the event that the rules are not posted, users of the area shall still be held responsible for knowing and following the rules, and may be fined or otherwise penalized for failure to abide by such rules. These rules may be augmented at any time by the county manager should the county manager determine that additional rules are needed.
(1)
Enter at your own risk. All users of the off-leash area shall assume all risk and liability associated with using the dog park.
(2)
The dog park is closed from dusk to dawn. (Dusk is 30 minutes after sunset and dawn is 30 minutes before sunrise.)
(3)
Owners are solely liable for any injury or damage caused by their dog and fully responsible for their dog's actions.
(4)
All dogs must wear a collar with a valid county license and have current vaccinations as required by law.
(5)
There is a limit of two dogs per dog handler in the dog park at any time.
(6)
No dog should be left unattended or unsupervised. A dog must be closely supervised and under control by voice command at all times.
(7)
Dogs must be leashed prior to entering and upon leaving the dog park.
(8)
Areas within the dog park designated for small dogs mean dogs less than 20 pounds.
(9)
Dogs must be at least four months old.
(10)
Female dogs in heat are not allowed.
(11)
Dogs showing aggression towards people or other dogs must immediately be leashed and removed.
(12)
No dog classified as a "dangerous dog" or "potentially dangerous dog" under the dangerous dog control law (O.C.G.A. § 40-8-20 et seq.) or as a "vicious dog" under the Mercedes Law (O.C.G.A. § 40-8-40 et seq.) shall be allowed in the dog park.
(13)
Owners must stop their dog from digging and are responsible for filling any holes their dog creates.
(14)
No food or treats (for animal or human consumption), alcoholic beverages, glass containers, strollers, bicycles, or smoking are allowed in the dog park.
(15)
All dog waste (feces) must be removed and placed in proper trash receptacles by the handler.
(16)
No bare feet allowed.
(17)
To help keep the dog park clean, do not groom animals at the dog park.
(18)
For the safety of dogs and other park visitors, choke, prong (pinch) and spike collars are strictly prohibited. They must be removed before entering the park.
(19)
Children should refrain from running and those 12 years of age and under must be supervised by an adult.
(20)
Failure to abide by park rules and county ordinances may result in the violator being prosecuted under applicable laws and or removal from the dog park.
(21)
To notify the parks and recreation department of any misuse of the dog park please call (770) 306-3010.
(22)
Dogs are the only type of animals permitted inside the dog park.
(d)
Enforcement and penalties. The Fulton County Magistrate Courts or the courts wherein the county has a contractual agreement for providing animal control services shall hear cases and assess fines for violations of this code section. Any person who violates the provisions of this code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine up to $1,000.00 and/or imprisonment in jail for a period not to exceed 60 days or both. Each and every violation of the provisions of this code section constitutes a separate offense. In addition to the foregoing, violators as to vicious dogs and dangerous dogs may be prosecuted under any ordinance, law or regulation governing such conduct in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Code 1983, § 32-1-17; Ord. No. 09-0931, 9-16-09; Ord. No. 09-0931, 9-16-09; Amd. No. 13-0332, 5-1-13)
Sec. 50-43. - Control of motor vehicles in parks.
No person shall operate any motor vehicle of any kind or nature, including two-wheeled motor vehicles, in any county park or recreational facility except upon roadways laid out and maintained for such purposes. This section shall not apply to vehicles used for maintenance purposes, to golf carts being operated on prescribed cart paths, nor to vehicles operated by county employees or other persons whose duties require that they operate or park recreational facility maintenance equipment within the park or recreational facility. Operation of motor vehicles as contemplated by this section shall include, but not be limited to, parking vehicles in areas which shall not be specifically designated as parking areas.
(Code 1983, § 32-1-18)
Sec. 50-44. - Speed limit in parks.
No person shall operate any motor vehicle of any nature, including two-wheeled motor vehicles, at a speed in excess of 15 miles per hour. Signs warning motor vehicle operators shall be posted in a conspicuous manner at the entrances to parks and recreational facilities giving fair warning of the speed limit restrictions imposed by this section. If not so posted the speed limits in county parks and recreational facilities shall be consistent with the speed limit otherwise imposed by state law.
(Code 1983, § 32-1-19)
Sec. 50-45. - Littering in parks.
No person shall litter any county park or recreational facility with any trash, tin cans, glass bottles, garbage, rubbish, dead animals, discarded materials, sand, gravel, or slag, or otherwise similarly litter or dump upon any park or recreational facility. This section shall apply regardless of whether the person so littering or dumping is actually upon the premises of any park or recreational facility so long as the littering or dumping by the person occurs directly on any park or recreational facility.
(Code 1983, § 32-1-20)
Sec. 50-46. - Control of horses in parks.
No person shall ride, show, or otherwise have under his control and in his possession any horse or other equine animal within any county park or recreational facility. This section shall not apply where the animal is in a trailer or other motorized vehicle suitable for the transportation of the animal, and provided the animal is being transported to or from any area where the riding, showing, or other use and enjoyment of the animal is specifically permitted.
(Code 1983, § 32-1-21)
Sec. 50-47. - Advertising restrictions.
The placement of advertising within county parks is prohibited without written approval of the parks and recreation department.
(Code 1983, § 32-1-22)
Sec. 50-48. - Hunting.
No person shall pursue, hunt, shoot (firearms, air gun/bow and arrow etc.), kill, take, or capture wildlife or feral hogs within any Fulton County park or recreational facility. No person shall place, set, draw, or use any device used to take wildlife or feral hogs, whether any such act results in taking or not and includes every act of assistance to any person in taking or attempting to take such wildlife or feral hogs. It shall be unlawful to remove or disturb any living or dead native creatures in county parks, including mammals, birds, fish, amphibians, and reptiles, or the parts or progeny thereof, such as nests, eggs, or antlers.
(Amd. No. 13-0332, 5-1-13)
Sec. 50-49. - Non-motorized vehicles.
No person shall ride, carry, push or otherwise manually transport any non-motorized vehicle such as bicycles, skateboards, scooters, etc. on or through any trails, sidewalks, plazas, recreation court, pavilion etc. owned or operated by the county that are designed solely for pedestrian use with exception to persons with disabilities operating a wheelchair or persons pushing a baby in a stroller. Non-motorized vehicles shall solely be used within special designated areas.
(Amd. No. 13-0332, 5-1-13)
Sec. 50-50. - Prohibition of smoking.
(a)
Use prohibited indoors and outdoors. It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke or use any tobacco product that produces smoke, including, but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, pipes, hookahs, etc., while on the premises of any county park.
(b)
Definitions. For purposes of this section, "county parks" and "recreational facilities" also includes all facilities, buildings, stands, concession areas, grounds, fields, playgrounds, parking lots, trails, greenspace and greenways.
(c)
Violations. Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of up to $1,000.00 and/or imprisonment in jail for a period not to exceed 60 days.
(d)
Enforcement. The Fulton County Magistrate Courts or the courts with which the county has a contractual agreement to hear citations for violation of county ordinances shall hear cases and assess fines for violation of this Code section. The director of parks and recreation shall cause signs reflecting this policy to be erected and posted in appropriate locations throughout county parks and recreational facilities, but the failure to post any such sign shall not relieve any person from the obligation to comply with the provisions of this section.
(16-0817, 9-21-16)
