Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS AND COUNTY GOVERNING AUTHORITY[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Ordinances pertaining to officers and employees, § 2-36 et seq.; code of ethics, § 2-66 et seq.; resolutions pertaining to county governing authority, § 101-36 et seq.; resolutions pertaining to officers and employees, § 102-81 et seq.; resolutions pertaining to personnel, ch. 154.
Local Constitutional Amendments and Local Acts reference—County governing authority, ch. 1.

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of publication and Code.
(a)
This publication consists of part I (Local Constitutional Amendments and Local Acts) and part II (Code of Ordinances and Code of Resolutions). This publication shall constitute and be designated as the "Code of Ordinances of Fulton County" or as the "Code of Ordinances of Fulton County, Georgia." Such Code may also be cited in an abbreviated form as the "C.O.F.C. (reference to portion to be cited) 1997."
(b)
The ordinances in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Code of Ordinances of Fulton County" or as the "Code of Ordinances of Fulton County, Georgia." The Code may be also cited in an abbreviated form as follows: "C.L.F.C. (reference to portion to be cited) (1996)."
(Code 1983, § 21-1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
The following definitions and rules of construction shall apply to all ordinances adopted by the board of commissioners unless the context requires otherwise:
Generally. Ordinary meanings shall be applied to all words, except words of art, or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, in which case words shall have the significance attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter. The definitions of terms found in generally accepted dictionaries are prima facie evidence of meaning. In making interpretations of ordinances, the courts shall look diligently for the intent of the board of commissioners, as gleaned from the minutes of meetings reflecting the approval of motions by the board of commissioners, recitals found in ordinances and statements of policy and intent adopted by the board of commissioners. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
Liberal construction; minimum requirements; overlapping provisions. All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the board of commissioners may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, such provisions shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the other provisions of this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Captions, maps, etc. In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text of this Code and any caption, illustration, map, chart, summary table, or illustrative table, the text shall control.
Adequate. The word "adequate" means equal to what is required, suitable to the case or occasion, fully sufficient, proportionate, satisfactory.
Aforesaid. The word "aforesaid" usually means next before, unless the context requires a different signification.
All. The word "all" means everyone, or the whole number of particulars.
Also. The word "also" means "in like manner," "likewise," "in addition," "besides," "as well," "further," "too."
As soon as possible. The term "as soon as possible" means within a reasonable time, having due regard to all the circumstances.
At. The term "at" may mean "in," "near," "within," or "about." Its primary idea is nearness, and it is less definite than "in" or "on."
Board of commissioners, board. The words "board of commissioners" mean the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means the Code of Ordinances of Fulton County as designated in section 1-1. Such Code is subpart A.
Computation of time. When a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation involves two or more items, conditions, provisions, or events connected by the conjunction "and," "or," or "either…or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows:
(1)
And indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
(2)
Or indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events may apply singularly or in any combination.
(3)
Either…or indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply singularly but not in combination.
County. The word "county" means Fulton County, Georgia. When appropriate, "county" means a designated department, officer, or employee thereof.
Delegation of authority. Unless restricted by state law, whenever a provision appears requiring a county officer or county employee to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize the officer or employee to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act.
Department. The word "department" means an administrative department of county government. When appropriate, "department" means the director of the department or the director's designee. A department is not a legal entity capable of suit.
Director. The word "director" refers to the director of an administrative department of county government or the director's designee. The term is synonymous with department head and appointing authority.
Following. The word "following" means next after.
Gender. A word importing the one gender includes all other genders.
Includes or including. "Includes" or "including" shall not be construed to limit a term to the specified examples, but is intended to extend the meaning of a term to all instances or circumstances of like kind or character.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons, or officers, may be executed by a majority of them.
Keeper and proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent, or employee.
May. The word "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
Month. The word "month" means a calendar month.
Must. The word "must" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Number. The singular and plural number include the other, unless expressly excluded.
Oath. An "oath" includes an affirmation.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Officials, employees, boards, commissions, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, employees, boards, commissions, or other agencies of the county by title only, the reference refers to the officials, employees, boards, commissions, or other agencies of the county.
Ordinance. The word "ordinance" means any legislation enacted by the board of commissioners that is capable of enforcement through the imposition of fines or penalties.
Owner. The word "owner," as applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
Person. The word "person" includes any association, club, society, firm, corporation, partnership, and body politic and corporate as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as defined in this section.
Preceding. The word "preceding" means next before.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" includes any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or congregate.
Real property. The words "real property" include lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
Resolution. The word "resolution" means a policy statement or directive or course of action adopted by the board of commissioners at a regularly called meeting.
Shall. The word "shall" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. A "signature" or "subscription" includes the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. The word "state" means the State of Georgia.
Street or road. The word "street" or "road" includes any street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane, viaduct, and any other public highway in the county including, but not limited to, the paved or improved surfaces thereof.
Tenant, occupant. The word "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies, the whole or a part of a building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Until a certain day. The term "until a certain day" includes all of such day.
Week. The word "week" means seven days.
Whereas. The term "whereas" means "considering that."
Will. The word "will" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Writing. The term "writing" includes printing and all numerals.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1983, § 21-1-2)
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections, effect of history notes, and references in Code.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of such sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Cross references and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, or sections are to the chapters, articles, and sections of this Code unless otherwise specified.
(Code 1983, § 21-1-3)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Territorial applicability.
(a)
Except as specifically provided otherwise, this Code only applies in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(b)
Where the county provides service to an incorporated area, the ordinances relating to such service apply in that incorporated area.
(Code 1983, § 21-1-9)
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal of ordinance.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance does not revive any ordinance previously repealed.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance does not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution, or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed under the repealed ordinance.
(Code 1983, § 21-1-4)
Sec. 1-6. - Amendments; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances adopted subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections, and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances or resolutions, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from repealed pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances and resolutions as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted anew by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "Section _____ of the Code of Ordinances of Fulton County is amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Code of Ordinances of Fulton County is amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) numbered _____ to read as follows:…." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters, or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article, or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1983, § 21-1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
Supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the board of commissioners. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the person authorized to prepare the supplement may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplemental, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the person may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code.
(d)
In no case shall the person make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a county officer or county employee to perform an official duty unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
Except where a violation is to be punished as a misdemeanor or other specific enforcement provision is set forth in the Code, a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, imprisonment in the county jail for a term not exceeding 60 days, or by any combination thereof. With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(d)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
(Code 1983, § 21-1-8; Ord. No. 99-0440, § 2, 3-17-99)
State Law reference— Maximum punishments which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b).
Sec. 1-9. - Severability.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the board of commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the board of commissioners without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section.
(Code 1983, § 21-1-5)
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-10. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing legislation.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as those of legislation existing as of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-11. - Matters not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the county, or any evidence of the county's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the county.
(3)
Any existing right or franchise granted by the county to any person.
(4)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, defining, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the county.
(5)
Any appropriation or ordinance authorizing appropriations.
(6)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor.
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting a plat or subdivision or regulating plats or subdivisions.
(8)
Any zoning or rezoning ordinance.
(9)
Any ordinance establishing salaries or compensation of county officers or employees not in this Code.
(10)
Any ordinance approving the budget.
(11)
Any ordinance adopted for purposes that have been consummated.
(12)
Any ordinance that is temporary, although general in nature.
(13)
Any ordinance that is special, although permanent in nature.
(14)
Any ordinance levying or otherwise relating to taxes.
(15)
Any act or ordinance amending any act enacted by the general assembly of the state.
Sec. 1-12. - Code does not affect prior offenses, rights, etc.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
