ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 34-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Board of health means the Fulton County Board of Health.
Director means the executive director of the Fulton County Board of Health.
District health director means the district health director for the Georgia Department of Public Health, District 3.2.
Environmental health specialist means any authorized representative of the environmental health division of the Fulton County Board of Health.
Person means person, individual, permit holder, owner, partnership, firm, corporation, municipality, society, or association, and may extend and apply to bodies including governmental agencies.
(Code 1983, § 30-1-1; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 34-2. - Inspections and investigations.
(a)
The board of health shall make or authorize any inspections and investigations it deems necessary to enforce the regulations of the board of health to protect the public health.
(b)
The board of health may take and examine reasonable samples of any substance suspected of creating a nuisance or menace to the public health or of failing to comply with the regulations.
(c)
Whenever the board of health shall find any substance, food or food product which is diseased, decayed, damaged, adulterated, or unwholesome; which contains deleterious substances, or has been subject to contamination, or is otherwise unfit for human consumption or use, the board of health may condemn and order it removed from sale, use or public access.
(d)
A record of the condemnation and/or order shall be filed in the office of the board of health.
(e)
The board of health may require any substance or food of such character that its use may be dangerous to the public health to be kept from use until its wholesomeness can be determined. If it is found to be unwholesome it may order the owner to destroy and dispose of it.
(Code 1983, § 30-1-2; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
Sec. 34-3. - Permits and approvals.
All applications for permits or written approval required by any regulation of the board of health shall be made on forms prescribed and furnished by the board of health and shall be signed by the applicant, who shall be the person responsible for conformance to the conditions of the permit or approval applied for. Applications shall contain any information and be accompanied by any plans as the board of health shall deem necessary. A permit issued to a particular person or for a designated place or purpose shall not be valid for use by any other person or for any other place or purpose than that designated therein. Such permits or written approvals may contain general and specific conditions, and every person who shall have obtained a permit or written approval containing these conditions shall conform to the conditions prescribed in the permit or written approval and to the provisions of all applicable regulations. Every permit shall expire as stated on the permit and may be renewed, suspended for cause or revoked by the health department after due notice and hearing.
(Code 1983, § 30-1-3; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
Sec. 34-4. - Business licenses and building permits.
(a)
Whenever any regulation of the board of health requires approval by the board of health of plans for any building or structure, no municipality or agency of Fulton County shall issue or renew a building permit for the building or structure without first having obtained a written statement from the board of health that the plans therefor comply with all the applicable regulations of the board of health.
(b)
Whenever any regulation of the board of health requires sanitary inspection and approval of any establishment by the board of health, no municipality or agency of Fulton County shall issue or renew any business license for the establishment without first having obtained a written statement from the board of health that the establishment complies with all applicable regulations of the board of health.
(c)
Nothing in this section shall be construed to restrict or abrogate the authority of any municipality or agency of Fulton County to adopt and enforce additional regulations or ordinances or to enforce existing regulations or ordinances relative to the regulation, control, issuance, renewal or revocation of any business license or building permit, except as herein provided.
(d)
It shall be the duty of the board of health to keep the appropriate municipal and county officials informed as to the provisions of this subsection and the regulations of the board of health to which it applies.
(Code 1983, § 30-1-4; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
Sec. 34-5. - Regulations of other agencies and municipalities.
Wherever there is in effect any rule or provision of any regulation or ordinance of any governmental agency or municipality which is more strict than the corresponding provision of a regulation of the board of health, the board of health shall hold in abeyance the enforcement of the provision of the board of health regulation and cooperate with the agency or municipality in enforcing the stricter rule or provision of its regulations or ordinances. Provided, that if after a reasonable time the agency or municipality shall have failed to enforce its rule or the provision of its regulations or ordinances, the board of health shall proceed with the enforcement of the corresponding provision of the board of health regulation.
(Code 1983, § 30-1-5; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
Sec. 34-6. - Penalty for violation of chapter.
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each and every violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1983, § 30-1-6)
Secs. 34-7—34-30. - Reserved.
