ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Res. No. 04-1326, adopted Dec. 15, 2004 amended art. I in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, said article pertained to similar subject matter as enacted by Code 1983. See the Code Comparative Table for a detailed analysis of inclusion.

Sec. 82-1. - Water conservation program.
(a)
This section shall be known as the Fulton County Water Conservation Program. Its purpose is to conserve potable water; to meet requirements of state and federal regulations; and similar related purposes.
(b)
The Fulton County Water Conservation Program shall be that document entitled "Fulton County, Department of Public Works, Water Conservation Plan," dated January 2003 or any subsequent revision thereof approved by the board of commissioners.
(c)
It is the policy of Fulton County to promote water conservation by regulating outdoor water use and by complying with the laws and regulations imposed by the state on outdoor water use.
(d)
Restrictions for outdoor water use during non-drought periods.
(1)
Restricted uses. The following uses are restricted by hours of the day or by days of the week.
a.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 12-5-7, during non-drought periods persons may irrigate for purposes of planting, growing, managing, or maintaining ground cover, trees, shrubs, or other plants, seven days a week, but only between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.
b.
Other outdoor water use not listed in subsections (d)(1)a. immediately above and (d)(2) below may occur during non-drought periods 24 hours per day but only on the following days:
1.
Outdoor water use at odd-numbered addresses is allowed on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Sundays.
2.
Outdoor water use at even-numbered addresses is allowed on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Saturdays.
(2)
Unrestricted uses. In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 12-5-7, the following outdoor uses are allowed during drought and non-drought periods, seven days a week, 24 hours per day:
a.
Commercial agricultural operations as defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3;
b.
Capture and reuse of cooling system condensate or stormwater in compliance with applicable Fulton County ordinances and state guidelines;
c.
Reuse of gray water in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.2 and applicable Fulton County Board of Health regulations adopted pursuant thereto;
d.
Use of reclaimed wastewater by a designated user from a system permitted by the environmental protection division of the department to provide reclaimed wastewater;
e.
Irrigation of personal food gardens;
f.
Irrigation of new and replanted plant, seed, or turf in landscapes, golf courses or sports turf fields during installation and for a period of 30 days immediately following the date of installation;
g.
Drip irrigation or irrigation using soaker hoses;
h.
Hand watering with a hose with automatic cutoff or handheld container;
i.
Use of water withdrawn from private wells or surface water by an owner or operator of property if such well or surface water is on said property;
j.
Irrigation of horticulture crops held for sale, resale, or installation;
k.
Irrigation of athletic fields, golf courses, or public turf grass recreational areas;
l.
Installation, maintenance, or calibration or irrigation systems;
m.
Hydroseeding.
(e)
Any violation of section 82-1(c)(d) shall constitute a misdemeanor as set forth in article II, section 82-44.
(f)
This amended section shall be effective January 1, 2011. Nothing in this article is intended to repeal any other duly enacted ordinance, resolution, or parts of ordinances or resolutions of the county, except where such ordinance, resolution, or parts of ordinances or resolutions are in direct conflict with this article. Any such repeal under this section shall be to the extent of such conflict only and no further.
(Res. No. 04-1326, 12-15-04; Ord. No. 10-1248, 10-15-10; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
Sec. 82-2. - Water cross connection control and backflow prevention program.
(a)
This section shall be known as the Fulton County, Water System, Backflow Prevention and Cross Connection Control Program. Its purpose is to prevent water contamination via interconnections with unsafe and nonpotable sources; to meet requirements of state and federal regulations; and similar related purposes.
(b)
The Fulton Water System Backflow Prevention and Cross Connection Control Program shall be that document entitled "Fulton County, Department of Public Works, Backflow Prevention Program," dated October 2004 or any subsequent revision thereof approved by the board of commissioners.
(Res. No. 04-1326, 12-15-04)
Secs. 82-3—82-30. - Reserved.
