ARTICLE VIII. - PROBATE COURT[11]

Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
Cross reference— Appointment of chief clerk to judge of probate court, § 2-69; filling of vacancy in office of probate court judge, § 2-71.
State Law reference— Probate courts generally, O.C.G.A. § 15-9-1 et seq.

Sec. 10-421. - Election of judge.
(a)
The Judge of the Probate Court of Fulton County shall be elected by the qualified voters of Fulton County in a nonpartisan primary and election. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the judge of the probate court shall be elected pursuant to the general election laws of Georgia.
(b)
Beginning with the elections held in 1984 and each election thereafter at which the judge of the probate court is elected, the judge of the probate court shall be elected at the nonpartisan primary and general election immediately preceding the expiration of the term of office of the judge of the probate court.
(c)
Candidates for the office of judge of the probate court shall be nominated in a nonpartisan primary to be held at the same time as and in conjunction with the general primary every four years. A nominating petition shall not be required to place the name of any such candidate on the primary ballot. A candidate may have his name placed on the primary ballot by filing a notice of candidacy with the county election superintendent and paying the qualifying fee.
(d)
The candidate receiving a majority of votes in the nonpartisan primary shall be the nominee for the office of judge of the probate court and shall be the only candidate for such office to have his name appear on the general election ballot. In the event no candidate receives a majority of the votes cast, the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes for the office shall be the nominees for the office and shall have their names placed on the general election ballot.
(e)
The names of all candidates for the office of judge of the probate court shall appear in a separate section of each primary and general election ballot of each elector. No party designation or affiliation shall appear beside the name of any such candidate on any primary or general election ballot, and no candidate for the office of judge of the probate court shall be nominated by any political party.
(1983 Ga. Laws (Act No. 171), page 4063, §§ 1—5)
Secs. 10-422—10-450. - Reserved.
