ARTICLE IV. - PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Transient Merchant Act of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 18-137. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Itinerant merchant means any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident of the city or not, who engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares, and merchandise within the city, and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses, or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad, box car, boat, or public room in any hotel, lodginghouse, apartment, or shop within the city for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares, and merchandise, either privately or at public auction.
Peddler means any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by foot, wagon, automotive vehicle, or any other type of conveyance from place-to-place, from house-to-house, or from street-to-street, carrying, conveying, or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden produce, farm products, or provisions, who offers and exposes the same for sale, or who, without traveling from place-to-place, sells or offers the same for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle, railroad car, or other vehicle or conveyance.
(Code 1985, § 9-205(2))
Sec. 18-138. - Exemptions.
This article shall not be applicable to traveling salesmen or nonresident merchants as provided in O.C.G.A. ch. 34-10, nor to newsboys, nor to bona fide merchants who merely deliver goods in the regular course of business, nor to bona fide charitable, religious, or philanthropic organizations.
(Code 1985, § 9-205(3))
Sec. 18-139. - Loud noises and speaking devices.
No license under this section, nor anyone on his behalf, shall shout, make any outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell, or use any other sound device, including any loud-speaking radio or amplifying system upon any of the streets, alleys, parks, or other public places of the city or upon any private premises in the city where sound or sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks, or other public places for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares, or merchandise which such licensee proposes to sell.
(Code 1985, § 9-205(9))
Secs. 18-140—18-161. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 18-162. - License required.
Each peddler and itinerant merchant, as such terms are defined herein, who does business within the city, shall be required to obtain a license from the city clerk in the manner specified in this division.
(Code 1985, § 9-205(1))
Sec. 18-163. - Application.
Application for a license under this section shall be made as provided in article II of this chapter, except that such application shall contain the following additional information:
(1)
The fingerprints of the person having the management or supervision of the applicant's business, or in lieu thereof at least three letters of recommendation from reliable property owners in the county in which the business is to be conducted, certifying as to the applicant's good character and business responsibility, or other evidence which establishes the good character and business responsibility of such person to the satisfaction of the mayor and council;
(2)
The place in the city where it is proposed to carry on applicant's business, and the length of time during which it is proposed that said business shall be conducted;
(3)
The place, other than the permanent place of business of the applicant, where applicant, within the six months next preceding the date of said application, conducted a transient business, stating the nature thereof and giving the post office and street addresses of any building or office in which such business was conducted;
(4)
A statement of the nature, character, and quality of the goods, wares, or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant in the city; the invoice value and quality of such goods, wares, and merchandise; where the goods or property to be sold are manufactured or produced; and where such goods or products are located at the time said application is filed;
(5)
A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising done, or proposed to be done, in order to attract customers, and, if required by the city clerk, copies of all said advertising whether by hand bills, circulars, newspaper advertising, or otherwise, shall be attached to said application as exhibits thereto; and
(6)
Whether or not the persons having the management or supervision of the applicant's business have been convicted of a crime, misdemeanor, or the violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of such offense, and the punishment assessed therefor.
(Code 1985, § 9-205(4))
Sec. 18-164. - Bond.
Before any license shall be issued for engaging in a transient or itinerant business as provided in this section, the applicant for such license shall file with the city clerk a bond running to the city in the sum of $500.00, executed by the applicant, as principal, and two sureties upon which service of process may be made in the state; said bond to be approved by the city attorney, conditioned that the applicant shall comply fully with all of the provisions of the ordinances of the city and statutes of the state regulating and concerning the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, and will pay all judgments rendered against said applicant for any violation of said ordinances or statutes, or any of them, together with all judgments and costs that may be recovered against him by any person for damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deception practiced on any person transacting such business with such applicant, whether said misrepresentations or deceptions were made or practiced by the owners or by their servants, agents, or employees, either at the time of making the sale or through any advertisement of any character whatsoever, printed or circulated with reference to the goods, wares, and merchandise sold or any part thereof. Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the city for the use of the aggrieved person. Such bond must be approved by the city attorney, both as to form and as to the responsibility of the sureties thereon.
(Code 1985, § 9-205(5))
Sec. 18-165. - Service of process.
Before any license as herein provided shall be issued for engaging in business as a peddler or itinerant merchant in the city, the applicant for such license shall file with the city clerk an instrument nominating and appointing the city clerk as his true and lawful agent with full power and authority to acknowledge service of notice of process for and on behalf of said applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the business transacted under said license and the bond given as required by this section, or for the performance of the conditions of said bond, or for any breach thereof, which said instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect that said applicant for said license consents and agrees that service of any notice or process may be made upon said agent, and when so made, shall be taken and held to be as valid as if personally served upon the person applying for the license under this division, according to the law of this or any other state, and waiving all claim or right of error by reason of such acknowledgement or service or manner of service. Immediately upon service of process upon the city clerk, as herein provided, the city clerk shall send to the licensee at this last-known address, by registered mail, a copy of said process.
(Code 1985, § 9-205(6))
Sec. 18-166. - Fee established.
The license fee for each peddler and itinerant merchant doing business in the city shall be $10.00 per day, $25.00 per week, $50.00 per month, $100.00 per year.
(Code 1985, § 9-205(7))
Sec. 18-167. - Duty to exhibit.
All persons obtaining a license under the provisions of this section shall be required to exhibit such license at the request of any citizen.
(Code 1985, § 9-205(8))
Secs. 18-168—18-187. - Reserved.
