ARTICLE III. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Sec. 3-1. - Zoning districts.
For the purposes of this zoning code, the areas shown on the Zoning Map of the City of Wrightsville, Georgia are hereby divided into the following districts or zones:
EXPAND
District
Title
D-1
Development district
R-1
Single-family residential — low-density district
R-2
Single-family residential — medium density district
R-3
Multifamily residential district— high-density district
R-4
Manufactured/mobile home park district
P-1
Professional district
NC
Neighborhood commercial district
C-1
Central business district
C-2
General commercial district
I-1
Light industrial district
I-2
Heavy industrial district
  (Zoning Code 1997, § 4-1)
Sec. 3-2. - Zone boundaries.
(a)
Unless otherwise shown on the zoning map, the boundary lines of districts or zones are lot lines, the centerlines of streets, creeks and streams, railroad rights-of-way, or the incorporated city limit line as it existed at the time of the enactment of this appendix.
(b)
Where the boundary lines of districts or zones do not coincide with lot lines, the centerlines of streets, creeks and streams, railroad rights-of-way, or the incorporated city limit line, such district or zone boundaries shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the zoning map.
(c)
If, in accordance with the provisions of this zoning code, changes are made in district boundaries portrayed on the zoning map, such changes shall be made on the official zoning map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the city council.
(d)
Where district boundaries are so depicted that they are approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways, or railroads, or rights-of-way of same, such district boundaries shall be constructed as being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the zoning map. If no distance is given, such dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale of said zoning map.
(e)
Where a district boundary line, as appearing on the zoning map, divides a lot in single ownership at the time of enactment of this appendix, the district requirements for the least restricted portion of such lot shall be deemed to apply to the whole thereof, provided that such extension shall not include any part of such a lot more than 35 feet beyond the district boundary lines.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 4-2)
Secs. 3-3—3-15. - Reserved.
