Chapter 26 - SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - Scope and intent.
This chapter shall apply to all new subdivisions permitted within the city limits; additionally, any construction, repair, replacement, alteration of roads, sidewalks, drainage, utilities, or other infrastructure that is permitted by the city shall follow the standards provided herein unless otherwise provided.
Sec. 26-2. - Approval required for all subdivisions.
Building permits shall not be issued for structures located in a subdivision created subsequent to the adoption of this chapter unless a final plat of such subdivision has been approved and recorded as provided herein.
Sec. 26-3. - Subdivision defined.
When used in this chapter, the term "development" means any division or re-division of a lot, tract, or parcel into two or more lots, tracts, sites, or parts by means of mapping, plotting, conveyance, or rearrangement of boundaries. All subdivisions are subject to the city's subdivision regulations.
Sec. 26-4. - Development plan (preliminary plat).
The development plan for the subdivision shall be prepared as a preliminary subdivision plat and shall conform to the requirements of this chapter. The use to be made of each lot shall be marked on the plat. The plat shall also state the maximum number of dwelling units authorized for the subdivision. When approved, a final plat shall be recorded in the same manner as other subdivision plats along with the necessary covenants and restrictions applicable to the development. In addition, a faithful reproduction of the plat shall be prominently displayed within the subdivision until such time as the subdivision is fully developed.
Sec. 26-5. - Application requirements.
(a)
Pre-application review. Prior to the submittal of an application for approval of a planned development, the developer shall meet with the planning and zoning commission, the zoning administrator, and the building inspector for a review of the location, scope and nature of the proposed development.
(b)
Site plan required. In addition to the proposed plat or development plan, as described above, and any application and fee that may be required by the city, the applicant shall submit a site plan as provided for herein. At least 14 days prior to the regular meeting of the planning and zoning commission, a site plan plot of the proposed development shall be submitted as prescribed below. Each site plan shall be prepared by an architect, engineer, or land surveyor, or by a professional landscape architect, or by a professional planner, and be dated and sealed, as appropriate. Each site plan shall be drawn at an appropriate scale and shall show the following:
(1)
Name. The name of the proposed development, the name and address of the owner, and the designer of the site plan and his seal.
(2)
Drawing elements. North arrow, key and scale.
(3)
Boundaries. The boundary line of the tract to be developed drawn accurately to scale and with accurate linear and angular dimensions.
(4)
Location map. A map to an appropriate scale showing the location of the development.
(5)
Contours. Contours with a minimum vertical interval of five feet referred to sea level datum shall be provided for both existing and proposed topography.
(6)
Existing property lines. The location of existing and platted property lines, streets, buildings, water courses, railroads, bridges, water mains, sewers, culverts, drain pipes, and public utility easements, both on the land to be developed and on that portion of the land immediately adjoining which abuts the land to be developed, and any other pertinent characteristics of the land; the names of adjoining parcels of unsubdivided land; and the zoning of the property.
(7)
Proposed improvements. The names, where appropriate, and locations and dimensions of proposed streets, alleys, sidewalks, easements, buildings, parking areas, recreation areas and facilities, yards and other open spaces.
(8)
Utility and drainage plans. Utility and drainage plans shall be provided, including all information required by the health, street, water and sewer and sanitation departments, to determine that water, sewer, sanitary disposal, and storm drainage improvements will be made and located in accordance with city and county requirements.
(9)
Buffer areas. Locations, dimensions, and treatment of all required buffer, landscaped or planted areas, including fences.
(10)
Proposed protective covenants. A preliminary outline of proposed protective covenants, including provisions for the organization and financing of a homeowners' association, where appropriate.
(11)
Other information. Other information required by the zoning administrator or the building inspector to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 26-6. - Review procedure.
(a)
All applications, as provided for in this chapter, shall be submitted to the planning and zoning commission. The planning and zoning commission may approve any site plan and design plan (preliminary plat) where no variance to this chapter is involved, except as provided herein. If a site plan plat includes a variance to the requirements of this chapter or if the planning and zoning commission denies approval or fails to act within 30 days of submission, the developer may request that the site plan be considered by the mayor and council. The mayor and council, as a part of its site plan plat approval, may vary, except for use or density provisions, the terms of this chapter where, in its opinion, equal performance can be obtained by means other than those specified herein.
(b)
In the event that no improvements are made to land approved for subdivision within two years, the planning and zoning commission may require resubmission of preliminary and final plats.
Secs. 26-7—26-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DESIGN STANDARDS

Sec. 26-31. - Compliance with laws.
The applicant must demonstrate compliance with all local, federal and state regulations related to soil conservation, flood damage prevention, wetland preservation as well as any other relevant matters involved in the development of the lands.
Sec. 26-32. - Lot requirements; easements.
(a)
Lots. Lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements provided by the zoning code, except that residential lots not served by a public sanitary sewer and public water supply shall be no less than one acre in area or such greater area as may be required by the county health department. Residential lots served by a private sanitary sewer with public water supply shall meet requirements of the county health department.
(b)
Street frontage. Units within the subdivision which front on a street shall front only on a public street classified as a minor thoroughfare or other street, or on a private street having a pavement width of not less than 28 feet, or, if such street is designated as being one-way, 20 feet.
(c)
Easements. Except where alleys are permitted for the purpose, the developer shall provide easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines for utilities. Such easements shall be at least 20 feet wide.
Sec. 26-33. - Streets, sidewalks and drainage.
(a)
Sidewalks. Pedestrian easements for sidewalks of at least five feet in width may be required within blocks measuring more than 800 feet in length. Pedestrian easements shall also be provided to grant access to recreation areas and school sites when, in the opinion of the planning and zoning commission, sufficient access is not provided by proposed streets. Such easements may also be used for utilities and shall be paved with a suitable permanent surface. All sidewalks are to be a minimum of four feet in width, four inches in thickness of 2,500 psi concrete, with three-foot-wide handicapped ramps at intersections.
(b)
Streets. The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of all streets shall conform to the street and highway plans of the planning and zoning commission, the state, and the city, respectively. All public streets, except marginal access streets, within subdivisions which give direct access to the residential lots shall be platted and dedicated to minimum right-of-way of 60 feet. If drainage courses for streets extend beyond the existing or proposed right-of-way, adequate drainage easements shall be dedicated. All streets dedicated to the city shall be constructed and paved (20 feet minimum) according to the specifications set forth by the state department of transportation specifications, as may be amended, which specifications are adopted by reference.
(c)
Street signs. There shall be placed at least one standard reflectorized street name sign at every intersection, and two diagonally-opposed when deemed necessary by the planning and zoning commission.
(d)
Drainage facilities. All drainage structures and facilities shall be designed and sized to meet the runoff of the drainage area which they serve. In the event curbs and gutters are placed in the subdivision, all necessary storm sewers, catch basins, and manholes shall be built to meet state department of transportation specifications and standards.
Sec. 26-34. - Water; sewer; utilities.
(a)
Water systems. Water system mains shall be installed to supply the entire subdivision. Such systems shall be designed with the approval of the city water engineer and may be connected to the city water system when property is dedicated to the city. The developer shall be required to complete all underground work for such utilities, including the provision of adequate service connections to each lot within the subdivision prior to paving of such subdivision roads.
(b)
Sewerage.
(1)
When the subdivision is located within the service area of an existing public sewerage system, sanitary sewers shall be installed in such a manner as to serve adequately all lots with connection to the public system. Where lots cannot be economically connected with a sewerage system or where such a system cannot be feasibly developed, they must contain adequate area for the installation of approved septic tank and disposal fields and must be approved in writing by the county health department.
(2)
For the purpose of this chapter, it shall be considered economically feasible to develop a sewerage system when the total cost per lot for sanitary sewers does not exceed the cost per lot for septic tanks by more than 100 percent. In such event, a sewerage system with adequate collection sewers, servicing each lot and providing for a preliminary treatment facility including, among other methods, a properly constructed sewerage lagoon, shall be provided.
(3)
All materials, equipment, labor, and other matters related to the sanitary sewerage system shall be provided by the developer. When considered feasible by the city engineer, new subdivisions may connect to public sewerage with costs borne by the developer.
(4)
All sewer facilities shall be installed in accordance with the standards of the state department of natural resources and the county health department.
(c)
Utility installation. Public utility installation costs for gas, telephone, electrical, cable television, and streetlights shall be borne by the developer or utility company. Installation shall be on street rights-of-way, specified easements, or under streets prior to paving of streets.
