CHAPTER VI. - ELECTIONS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Elections, OCGA Title 21.

Section 6-10. - Regular Elections; Time for Holding.
The regular election for Mayor, Councilmen, or Recorder, as the case may be, shall be held on the first Tuesday in December of each year. Officials elected at any regular election shall take office at the organizational meeting provided for in Section 2-40 of this Charter.
(Ga. Laws 1985, p. 4106, § 8)
Section 6-11. - Qualification of Electors.
Any person meeting the qualifications of an elector for members of the General Assembly under State Laws who has been a bona fide resident of the City of LaFayette for ninety (90) days next preceding the election in which he desires to vote, shall be qualified to register as an elector in every City Election held under this Charter.
Section 6-12. - Qualification of Candidate.
Any person desiring to become a candidate in any City Election must file written notice of his candidacy at the City Hall with the Election Superintendent at least fifteen (15) days but not more than forty-five (45) days prior to the date fixed for the holding of such election in case of a regular election. To be eligible to become a candidate a person must meet all the requirements of the position contained in this Charter.
Section 6-13. - Qualification Fees.
The Mayor and Council may set reasonable qualification fees for candidates to help defray the cost of conducting the election. If such fees are set, said fees must be paid to the election superintendent at the time a candidate files his notice of candidacy. Said qualification fees must also be published in the election notice required under this Charter.
Section 6-14. - Election Superintendent, Election Managers and Election Clerks.
The Mayor and Council shall appoint annually an Election Superintendent and at least fifteen (15) days prior to any election an Election Manager or Managers and an Election Clerk or Clerks to conduct such election. The qualifications of said poll officers and the powers and duties of said officers shall be as prescribed by the Georgia Municipal Election Code.
Section 6-15. - Conduct of Elections, Notice.
The Mayor and Council shall give notice of every regular election at least thirty (30) days prior to the election by advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation in the City. The Notice shall contain the time and place of holding the election, the offices to be filled, the qualification fee, if any, and any other questions to be voted on. No additional notice is required of a runoff election.
Section 6-16. - Time of Election, Ballots.
The polls shall be open from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. All voting shall be by ballot.
Section 6-17. - Place of Election.
The place or places for holding elections shall be prescribed by [the] Mayor and Council in the election notice.
Section 6-18. - Voter Registration; Registrar.
The City of LaFayette shall maintain its own voter registration. The Mayor and Council shall appoint a Chief Voter Registrar, who may be the Clerk of the City, and may also appoint such additional registrars as are deemed necessary by said Mayor and Council.
Section 6-19. - Registration Cards.
All future registration will be done at the City Hall with the Chief Registrar, or with such other registrars as are appointed, on a registration card as specified by the Georgia Municipal Election Code. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Charter, any person who was qualified and registered to vote at the time of the enactment of this Charter shall not be required to reregister under the terms of this Charter unless such person should become disqualified to vote for reasons of having been purged from the list of electors, in which event, such person shall, in order to become registered to vote, reregister under the terms of this Charter.
Section 6-20. - Purging of Electors' List.
The Registrar shall purge the list of electors in accordance with the terms and conditions and provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code.
Section 6-21. - Voter Registration; Deadlines for Elections.
If any person whose name is not on the Municipal Registration List desires to vote at any election, he shall at least fifteen (15) days prior to the election in which he desires to vote apply to be registered as an elector. The Registrar or Registrars, as the case may be, shall cease taking applications to qualify persons to vote in such election fifteen (15) days prior to such election.
Section 6-22. - Absentee Voting.
The Mayor and Council may by ordinance provide for absentee voting in municipal elections held in the City of LaFayette. In the event the Mayor and Council do so elect to allow absentee voting, the rules, regulations and procedures therefor shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code.
Section 6-23. - Election by Majority; Runoff Elections.
All elective City officers must be elected by a majority of the votes cast for the particular office in the regular election. If no one receives a majority of the votes cast for a particular office in a regular election, there shall be a runoff election between the two (2) candidates receiving the highest number of votes. Such runoff election shall be held on the second Tuesday in December.
Section 6-24. - Matters Not Covered Herein Pertaining to Elections.
At all times when the term "Georgia Municipal Election Code" is referred to in this Charter, it shall be construed to mean the Georgia Municipal Election Code, Ga. Laws 1968, p. 885 et seq., OCGA, Title 21, and all matters of procedure and rules governing municipal elections not specifically covered herein shall be governed by said Georgia Municipal Election Code and amendments thereto.
