CHAPTER IV. - FINANCE AND FISCAL
ARTICLE I. - TAXATION

Section 4-10. - Property Taxes.
All property subject to taxation for State or County purposes, assessed as of January 1st of each year, shall be subject to the property tax levied by the City. All property subject to taxation in the City shall be returned for taxes each year on or before the 1st day of April.
Section 4-11. - Tax Assessor, Duties.
The Mayor and Council shall appoint a Tax Assessor whose duty will be to value and assess all property in said City subject to taxation by said City. He shall prepare and make a final return of the assessments made by him to the City Manager at such times as are prescribed by the Mayor and Council. He shall also have such further duties as may be prescribed by the Mayor and Council.
Section 4-12. - Notice of Increased Value; Arbitration.
(a)
Increased valuation; notice. If the City Tax Assessor raises the valuation on property which is returned by the property owner, or if the City Tax Assessor raises the valuation on property not returned to an amount greater than the valuation placed thereon during the preceding year, he shall give written notice thereof to the owner at his last known address, or in the case of unreturned property written notice of said increased value to the last known owner of said property at his last known address.
(b)
Arbitration. If any property owner is dissatisfied with the valuation made on his property by the City Tax Assessor, such property owner shall within ten (10) days after written notice thereof has been mailed by said City Tax Assessor, file written notice with the City Clerk of his dissatisfaction, and shall name in said notice one (1) arbitrator, who shall be a freeholder of said City, to represent him in fixing the value of his property. Upon such notice being filed with said Clerk, it shall be the Clerk's duty to notify the City Tax Assessor of that fact, and it shall be the duty of the City Tax Assessor within three (3) days after said notice has been filed with the Clerk to name an arbitrator, who shall be a freeholder of the City, to represent said City in fixing the value of the property in dispute; the two (2) arbitrators so selected shall be notified by mail by the City Clerk of their selection within seven (7) days of the filing of said notice by the property owner. Said two (2) arbitrators shall select a third arbitrator who shall also be a freeholder of the City. In the event the two (2) arbitrators fail to name the third arbitrator within ten (10) days after the arbitrator of the City has been appointed, said third arbitrator shall be named by the Judge of the Superior Court of Walker County, Georgia, most senior in term of office, which selection is to be made within ten (10) days from the time he is given written notice of such duty by the City Clerk.
(c)
Authority of arbitrators. The Board of Arbitrators so constituted shall proceed within ten (10) days from the date of the naming of the third arbitrator to meet and make their decision as to the value of said property, which decision shall be returned in writing to the City Clerk and shall be final on both the City and the taxpayer for the tax year.
(d)
Written notice; defined. Written notice as used in this Section is hereby defined as notice in writing addressed to the person to be notified at his last known address, as indicated by the City Records, if he is a taxpayer or registered voter, which notice is either to be mailed by regular United States mail or to be served personally by any policeman of the City, at the option of the City.
Section 4-13. - Tax Levy.
The Mayor and Council shall be authorized to levy an ad valorem tax not to exceed twenty (20) mills on each dollar of taxable value on all property subject to taxation within the corporate limits of the City of LaFayette for the purpose of raising revenue to pay the costs of ordinary current expenses and for any other purpose now or hereafter authorized by the Constitution and Laws of the State of Georgia, but not including principal and interest on general obligation bonds. In addition thereto the Mayor and Council shall be authorized to levy such annual ad valorem tax on each dollar of taxable value of such property as may be necessary to produce amounts required and sufficient to provide a sinking fund for the purpose of paying the principal of and interest on the bonded indebtedness of said City as required by law.
Section 4-14. - Tax Due Dates and Tax Bills.
The Mayor and Council shall provide by ordinance when the taxes of the City shall fall due and in what length of time said taxes shall be paid. The Mayor and Council may provide by ordinance for the payment of taxes due to the City in installments, or in one (1) lump sum, and when and how and upon what terms such taxes shall be due and payable, as well as to authorize the payment of taxes prior to the time when due and to give reasonable discounts for early payment of taxes, but such discounts shall not exceed two (2) percent of the gross amount of such taxes. The terms and methods of payment and collection of City taxes shall be in the manner as the Mayor and Council may determine by ordinance.
(Ga. Laws 1983, p. 4274, § 5)
Section 4-15. - Tax Execution, Interest, Costs.
If said City taxes are not paid by the date the same become delinquent, the execution shall be issued in the name of the City by the City Clerk. Said tax execution shall bear interest from said delinquent date at the rate of seven (7) percent per annum. A cost fee of two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) for issuance of the execution is hereby authorized which cost shall be added to said execution.
Section 4-16. - Collection of Delinquent Taxes.
The Mayor and Council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by distress warrants issued by the Clerk for the sale of goods and chattels to be executed by any police officer of the City under the same procedure provided by the laws governing execution of such process from a Justice of the Peace, or by the City Attorney acting in accordance with general laws providing for the collection of delinquent city or county taxes, or by any of the foregoing methods, and by the use of any available legal processes and remedies provided by State Law. A lien shall exist against all property upon which city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment day of the first day of January of each year, which shall be superior to all other liens except that it shall have equal dignity with those of the Federal, State or County taxes.
Section 4-17. - City Marshal.
The Chief of Police of the City of LaFayette or the acting Chief of Police, if there be no Chief of Police, shall also serve as Marshal of the City of LaFayette and shall be vested with all the duties and powers imposed upon him by this Charter, ordinance and by the Laws of the State of Georgia.
Section 4-18. - Additional Powers of Mayor and Council Regarding Tax Levy, Tax Assessment, and Collection of Taxes.
The Mayor and Council shall have the power to enact all ordinances which may be necessary in order to effectively provide for the assessment, taxation, and collection of taxes not inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter and the Laws of the State of Georgia.
Section 4-19. - Licenses and Occupational Taxes.
The Mayor and Council by ordinance shall have full power to levy such license and specific or occupation taxes upon residents of the City of LaFayette, both individual and corporate, and on all those who transact or offer to transact business therein, or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein, as the Mayor and Council may deem expedient for the public health, safety, benefit, convenience, or advantage of the City; to classify businesses, occupations, professions, or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful; to require such persons to procure licenses; to compel the payment of such licenses by execution or any other lawful manner; and to make laws and regulations necessary or proper to carry out the powers herein conferred, and to prescribe penalties for the violation thereof.
Charter cross reference—See § 5-20 of Charter.
Section 4-20. - Sewer Service Charges; Lien.
The Mayor and Council by ordinance shall have the right, power and authority to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewer services rendered both within and without the corporate limits of the City of LaFayette to provide for the cost and expense of providing for the collection and disposal of sewage through the sewerage facilities of said City. If unpaid, said sewer service charge shall constitute a lien against any property of persons served, which lien shall be second in priority only to liens for County and City property taxes and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for City property taxes.
Section 4-21. - Sanitary and Health Service Charge; Lien.
The Mayor and Council shall have authority by ordinance to provide for, to enforce, to levy and to collect the cost of sanitary and health services necessary in the operation of the City, from all individuals, firms and corporations residing in or doing business in said City benefiting from such service. Such authority shall include the power to assess, levy and collect annual or monthly sanitary taxes or fees in such amount or amounts, and based upon and in accordance with such classifications of property and/or sanitary service or services provided, as may be fixed by ordinance. Said sanitary taxes and the assessment thereof shall be a charge and lien against the real estate in respect to which said taxes are so assessed, and the owner or owners thereof, superior to all other liens except liens for County and City property taxes, and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for City property taxes.
Section 4-22. - Special Assessments; Lien.
The Mayor and Council shall have the power and authority to assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, draining, or improving any public ways, streets, sidewalks, sewers, or utility mains and appurtenances, against the abutting property owners, and to provide a method of payment of such assessments and penalties for nonpayment, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. A lien shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for County and City property taxes, and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided herein or by ordinance for City property taxes.
ARTICLE II. - BORROWING

Section 4-30. - General Obligation Bonds.
The Mayor and Council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this Charter and the Constitution and Laws of the State of Georgia. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issues by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Section 4-31. - Revenue Bonds.
Revenue Bonds may be issued by the Mayor and Council as now or hereafter provided by the Laws of the State of Georgia.
ARTICLE III. - ACCOUNTING AND BUDGETING

Section 4-40. - Fiscal Year.
The fiscal year of the City Government shall begin on the first day of October of each year and shall end on the thirtieth day of September next following. Said fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department or institution, agency and activity of the government, unless otherwise provided by State and Federal Law. The beginning date of the fiscal year may be changed by ordinance.
(Ord. of 9-13-76, § 1)
Section 4-41. - Preparation of Budgets.
The Mayor and Council shall provide by ordinance the procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual operating and a capital improvement budget.
Section 4-42. - Scope of Annual Operating Budget.
(a)
The annual operating budget shall contain with respect to each of the operating funds of the government of the City of LaFayette to which they are applicable:
(1)
An estimate of the unencumbered fund balance or deficit at the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, and the amount of any reserve for designated purposes or activities includable in the operating budget.
(2)
A reasonable estimate of revenues to be received during the ensuing year classified according to source; provided, however, the estimated revenues from current and from delinquent property taxes shall not exceed the percentage collected of the total receivable from each such source during the last completed fiscal year, or the current fiscal year whichever is greater.
(3)
Proposed expenditures detailed by each department, board, commission, office, agency and activity in accordance with an established classification of accounts, including those capital outlays which are to be financed from the revenues of the ensuing year, and including all debt service requirements in full for such fiscal year payable from such fund.
(4)
Work programs and performance date in justification of proposed expenditures for each department, board, commission, office or agency.
(5)
Such other information as may be considered necessary or desirable or requested by the Mayor and Council.
(b)
In no event shall the total proposed expenditures from any fund exceed the total anticipated revenues plus the estimated unappropriated surplus, or fund balance, and applicable reserves and less any estimated deficit at the end of the current fiscal year.
Section 4-43. - Submission of Budget to Mayor and Council.
On or before a date fixed by the Mayor and Council but not later than forty-five (45) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the City Manager shall submit to the Mayor and Council a proposed budget for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget shall be accompanied by a message from the City Manager containing a statement of the general fiscal policies of the City, the important features of the budget, explanations of major changes recommended for the next fiscal year, a general summary of the budget and such other comments and information as he may deem pertinent. A sufficient number of copies of the City Manager's message shall be reproduced to furnish a copy to any person desiring one (1), and a copy of the budget in full shall be filed with the Council and furnished to the Mayor and each Councilman. A summary of the budget shall be published in one (1) newspaper of general circulation within the City of LaFayette. The operating budget and the capital improvement budget hereinafter provided for, the budget message and all supporting schedules shall be filed in the Office of the City Clerk and shall be open to public inspection.
Section 4-44. - Action by Mayor and Council on Budget.
(a)
The Mayor and Council may amend the operating budget proposed by the City Manager except that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditures required by law or by other provisions of this Charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year and the total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves and revenues, constituting the fund availability of such fund.
(b)
The Mayor and Council shall adopt the final operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than fifteen (15) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year. If the Mayor and Council fail to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for current operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly until such time as the Mayor and Council adopt a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Such adoption shall take the form of an appropriation ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by source and making appropriations according to fund and by organized unit, purpose or activity as set out in the budget document.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted operating budget for each organizational unit, purpose or activity shall constitute the annual appropriation for such item, and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise encumbered balance of the appropriation, or allotment thereof, to which it is chargeable, except as provided in section 4-46 of this Charter.
Section 4-45. - Property Tax Levies.
As the next order of business following the adoption of the operating budget, the Mayor and Council shall levy by ordinance an annual tax on all real and personal property within the City of LaFayette which is subject to ad valorem tax. The tax rate set by such ordinance shall be such that reasonable estimate of revenues from such levy shall be at least sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, fund balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated.
Section 4-46. - Additional Appropriations.
The Mayor and Council may by ordinance make supplemental appropriations from revenues in excess of those estimated in the budget or make revisions in the operating budget at any regular or special meeting called for such purpose.
Section 4-47. - Lapse of Appropriations.
All unencumbered balances of appropriations in the current operating budget shall lapse at the end of the fiscal year.
Section 4-48. - Capital Improvements Budget.
(a)
On or before a date fixed by the Mayor and Council but not later than forty-five (45) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the City Manager shall submit to the Mayor and Council a proposed capital improvements budget with his recommendations as to the means of financing the improvements proposed for the ensuing fiscal year. The Mayor and Council shall have power to accept with or without amendments or reject the proposed programs and proposed means of financing.
(b)
The Mayor and Council shall adopt the final capital improvements budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the fifteen (15) days prior to the beginning date of each fiscal year. No appropriation provided for in the capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided the City Manager shall submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year, accompanied by his recommendations thereon. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by the Mayor and Council.
ARTICLE IV. - PROCUREMENT AND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT

Section 4-50. - Contracting Procedures.
The Mayor and Council shall prescribe by ordinance such rules and regulations as may be necessary to govern the authorization and execution of contracts which shall bind the City of LaFayette, except the City Manager shall have such power as provided in Chapter III, Article II, Section 3-23 (10) of this Charter. All contracts and all ordinances or resolutions making contracts, or authorizing the same, shall be drawn by the City Attorney or shall be submitted to him before authorization by the Mayor and Council. Except where otherwise provided by law, or by this Charter or by ordinance of the Council, all contracts of the City shall be signed by the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem or by some person designated by the Mayor and Council and shall be authenticated by the City Clerk.
Section 4-51. - Centralized Purchasing.
The Mayor and Council may by ordinance set forth procedures for a system of centralized purchasing for the City of LaFayette.
Section 4-52. - Sale and Disposition of Property.
(a)
The Mayor and Council are hereby authorized to sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the City of LaFayette for governmental or other purposes, which is declared obsolete, surplus or unusable; at public or private sale, with or without advertisement, for such consideration as said Mayor and Council shall deem equitable and fair to the City; provided, however, no public utility owned or operated by the City of LaFayette shall be sold by the Mayor and Council unless such sale shall first be approved by a majority vote of the electors of the City of LaFayette voting in a special election called and held for the purpose.
(b)
The Mayor and Council may quit claim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the City Manager and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public purposes and that the interest of the City has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending or widening any street, avenue, alley or public place in the City, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the City, the Mayor and Council may authorize the execution and deliverance in the name of the City a deed conveying said cutoff or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights-of-way, of said street, avenue, alley or public place or in settlement of any alleged damages sustained by said abutting or adjoining property owner. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the City has in such property, notwithstanding no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
(d)
The Mayor and Council may by ordinance provide a method of closing streets, disposition of said streets, by sale or otherwise, and all matters and procedures relative thereto. The Mayor and Council shall have the same authority and power regarding lanes and alleys not in conflict with the general law of this State.
