CHAPTER 300. - SUBDIVISION AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES
ARTICLE 1. - GENERAL

Section 300-1. - Authority and purpose.
(a)
Purpose. The purpose of this Title of the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) is to establish procedures and standards for the development and subdivision of land which facilitates the creation of functional neighborhoods enhancing the quality of life for the immediate residents, adjoining neighborhoods, and the City as a whole. This Title aims to achieve the following:
(1)
Orderly growth and development of new and redeveloped neighborhoods;
(2)
Coordination of streets within proposed neighborhoods with existing or planned streets and other public facilities;
(3)
General distribution of population and traffic in a manner that will avoid congestion and overcrowding;
(4)
Dedication or reservation of parks, squares, and recreational areas, accessible to all residents to serve as community focal points;
(5)
Set standards for landscaping and detailing of the public domain of streets, parks, and squares to promote a pedestrian oriented atmosphere and civic awareness; and to
(6)
Provide for pleasing visual environments to ensure public health, safety and the general welfare to residents of the City.
(b)
This Title is designed to facilitate adequate provision for water, sewer, stormwater management facilities; for the dedication of rights-of-way or easements for streets and utility purposes; to ensure the proximity of residential areas to centers of employment and shopping; to facilitate the further subdivision of larger tracts into smaller parcels of land; and to provide proper land records for the convenience of the public and for better identification and permanent location of real property boundaries.
(c)
This Title is also designed to protect and enhance the quality of the natural environment of the City by encouraging the preservation and protection of significant existing trees (in accordance with the City Tree Preservation and Replacement Regulations, Chapter 320, Article 4); assisting in the natural control of solar heat; reducing the impact of development on the community's storm drainage system; assisting in soil conservation and flood control; reduction of air emissions and noise; conserving the City's water supply; and enhancing the visual and aesthetic appearance of the community.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18)
Section 300-2. - Applicability of subdivision and development standards.
(a)
Jurisdiction. These regulations govern all property within the corporate limits of the City.
(b)
General Provisions. All development within the jurisdiction of this Chapter shall conform to the general provisions of this Title 3 of the UDO.
(c)
No construction or installation of improvements shall commence in a proposed development until the land disturbance permit has been approved and all applicable preliminary plats, construction plans and specifications have been approved by the appropriate authorities.
(d)
No building or other permits shall be issued for erection of a structure on any lot not of record until all requirements of this Title have been met.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17)
Section 300-3. - Definitions.
For the purpose of interpreting this Title, certain words and terms used herein shall be defined as follows:
Accessory structure: A building or structure which is clearly subordinate and incidental to and is customarily found in connection with a principal building and located on the same lot therewith.
Accidental discharge: A prohibited discharge into the City's municipal separate storm sewer system which occurs by chance and without planning or consideration prior to occurrence.
Addition (to an existing building), as used in Chapter 330 Floodplain Management: Any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common roof or wall other than a fire wall. Any walled and roofed addition which is connected by a fire wall or is separated by an independent perimeter load-bearing wall shall be considered new construction.
Adjacent to the future-conditions floodplains as used in Chapter 330 Floodplain Management: Those areas located within the defined horizontal distance from the future-conditions floodplain boundary that are at or lower in elevation than either three (3) feet above the base flood elevation or one (1) foot above the future-conditions flood elevation, whichever is higher, unless the area is hydraulically independent (meaning absolutely no connection to the flooding source such as through pipes, sewer laterals, down drains, foundation drains, ground seepage, overland flow, gated or valved pipes, excavated and backfilled trenches, etc. with no fill or other manmade barriers creating the separation).
Applicant, as used in Chapter 340 Stormwater Management: A person submitting a post-development stormwater management application and plan for approval.
Aquifer: Any stratum (rock layer) or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water from a well. (Note: This is the same definition used in the Groundwater Use Act).
Area of future-conditions flood hazard: The land area that would be inundated by the one percent annual chance flood based on future-conditions hydrology (100-year future-conditions flood).
Area of shallow flooding: A designated AO or AH zone on a community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet, and/or where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
Area of special flood hazard: The land subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. This includes all floodplain and flood-prone areas at or below the base flood elevation (including A, A1-30, A-99, AE, AO, AH, and AR on the DeKalb County FIRM), all floodplain and flood-prone areas at or below the future-conditions flood elevation, and all other flood-prone areas as referenced in Chapter 340. All streams with a drainage area of 100 acres or greater shall have the area of special flood hazard delineated.
Authorized representative, as used in Chapter 340 Stormwater Management:
(1)
If the discharger is a business, an owner, partner, corporate officer or highest ranking employee of the business employed at the facility from which the discharge or connection was made;
(2)
If the discharger is a federal, state or local government facility, a director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of the activities of the government facility, or that person's designee.
A-weighting (dBA): The electronic filtering in sound level meters that models human hearing frequency sensitivity. See Section 310-43.
Basal area: The cross-sectional area of a tree trunk at diameter breast height (DBH) expressed in terms of "units" per acre.
Base flood: The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year, also known as the 100-year flood.
Base flood elevation: The highest water surface elevation anticipated at any given point during the base flood.
Best management practices (BMPs): Sound conservation and engineering practices to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia", published by the GSWCC, as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted. This term also includes a wide range of stormwater management regulations, procedures, engineering designs, activities, prohibitions or practices which control the quality and/or quantity of stormwater.
Board as used in Chapter 310, Article 1 Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution, and Article 2 Stream Buffer Protection: The Georgia Board of Natural Resources.
Buffer, as used in Chapter 310, Article 2 Stream Buffer Protection: The area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of state waters in its natural state of vegetation, which facilitates the protection of water quality and aquatic habitat.
Buffer, as used in Chapter 310 Environmental Standards: With respect to a stream, a natural or enhanced vegetated area (established by Subsection 310-18(a)), lying adjacent to the stream.
Building: See definition for "Structure".
Caliper: A forest standard of tree trunk measurement for understory or replacement trees. Caliper of the trunk shall be taken at six (6) inches above the ground for trees up to and including four (4) inch caliper size, and breast height (DBH) for trees larger than four (4) inch caliper (see DBH ).
Certified personnel, as used in Chapter 310, Article 1 Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution: A person who has successfully completed the appropriate certification course approved by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
City of Chamblee Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System: See "Municipal separate storm sewer system".
City of Chamblee Stormwater Management Program: That program of activities and procedures for stormwater management as set forth in the application for the permit, as approved by the Georgia EPD, and any amendment or modification thereto.
Clean Water Act: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
Closing, as used in Chapter 310, Article 3 Nuisances: Causing a dwelling, building, or structure to be vacated and secured against unauthorized entry.
Commission, as used in Chapter 310, Article 1 Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution: The Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission (GSWCC).
Construction activity: Activities subject to the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act or NPDES general construction permits. These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance. Such activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating and demolition.
Construction activity area (zone): An area 20 feet around the building footprint.
Cooling water, as used in Chapter 340 Stormwater Management: Water used exclusively as a cooling medium in an appliance, device or apparatus.
Cover area as used in Chapter 320 Buffers, Landscaping, and Tree Protection: That area which falls within the drip line of any tree.
CPECS, as used in Chapter 310, Article 1 Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution: Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control with current certification by Envirocert, Inc., which is also referred to as CPESC, or CPESC, Inc.
Credit, as used in Chapter 340, Article 5 Stormwater Utility: A conditional reduction in the amount of a stormwater service charge to an individual property based on the provision and continuing presence of an effectively maintained and operational on-site stormwater system or facility or the provision of a service or activity by property owner, which system, facility, service, or activity reduces the stormwater utility's cost of providing stormwater services and facilities. Credits for on-site stormwater systems shall be generally proportional to the affect that such systems have on the peak rate of runoff from the site.
Critical Root Zone (CRZ): The minimum area beneath a tree, 70% of which must be left undisturbed in order to preserve a sufficient root mass to give a tree a reasonable chance of survival. The CRZ will typically be represented by a concentric circle centering on the tree's trunk with a radius equal in feet to one and one-half (1.5) times the number of inches of the trunk diameter.
Customer of the stormwater utility: All persons, properties and entities served by and/or benefitting from the utility's acquisition, management, maintenance, extension, and improvement of the public stormwater management systems and facilities and regulation of public and private stormwater systems, facilities and activities related thereto, and persons, properties and entities which will ultimately be served or benefited as a result of the stormwater management program.
Cut: A portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to the excavated surface. Also known as excavation.
C-weighting (dBC): The electronic filtering in sound level meters that measures the peak sound pressure level. See Section 310-43.
DBH (Diameter at Breast Height): The standard measure of tree size (for trees existing on a site) measured in caliper inches. The tree trunk is measured at a height of four and one-half (4.5) feet above the ground. If a tree splits into multiple trunks below four and one-half (4.5) feet, then the trunk is measured at its most narrow point beneath the split. Trees with less than four and one-half (4.5) feet of clear trunk shall be measured as the diameter of the largest vertical branch or leader at breast height.
Density factor, as used in Chapter 320 Buffers, Landscaping and Tree Protection: A unit of measure used to prescribe the calculated tree coverage on a site. The site density factor for areas within the corporate limits of the City of Chamblee is assigned in Chapter 320.
Department, as used in Chapter 310, Article 1 Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution: The Georgia Department of Natural Resources (DNR).
Design professional, as used in Chapter 310, Article 1 Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution: A professional licensed by the State of Georgia in the field of engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, forestry, geology or land surveying; or a person that is a certified professional in erosion and sediment control (CPESC) with a current certification Envirocert, Inc. Design professionals shall practice in a manner that complies with applicable Georgia law governing professional licensure.
Detention: The temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a stormwater management facility for the purpose of controlling the peak discharge.
Detention, extended: The detention of stormwater runoff for an extended period, typically 24 hours or greater.
Detention facility: A detention basin or structure designed for the detention of stormwater runoff and gradual release of stored water at controlled rates.
Developed land: Property altered from its natural state by construction or installation of impervious surface as defined in this UDO.
Development, major: Any alteration of the natural environment which requires the approval of a development or site plan and issuance of a building permit. By way of illustration, but not limitation, major development shall also include substantial removal or destruction of trees incidental to the development of land or to the marketing of land for development, the removal or destruction of trees in conjunction with any grading activity, including the removal or filling (stockpiling) of soil or the removal of trees not in conjunction with an ongoing forest management program.
Development, minor: Any alteration of the natural environment, which may or may not require development, site plan approval, or issuance of a building permit, but which would possibly cause minor removal or destruction of any tree(s). Any removal of trees that constitutes major development as that term is herein defined shall not constitute minor development.
Development, new: A land development activity on a previously undeveloped site, or on a site which previous buildings or structures were completely removed.
Director, as used in Chapter 310, Article 1 Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution: The Director of the Environmental Protection Division or an authorized representative.
Discharge: The spill, draining, dumping, deposit, seeping, disposal, placement, release or loss of any material or substance to the City of Chamblee Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System.
Discharger: Any person who discharges to the City of Chamblee Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System, either directly or indirectly, including, without limitation, the owner and occupant of the property where the discharge occurs and the person responsible for or performing the discharge. For purposes of notice, "discharger" shall include the authorized representative of such discharger.
District, as used in Chapter 310, Article 1 Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution: The DeKalb County Soil and Water Conservation District.
Division, as used in Chapter 310, Article 1 Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution: The environmental protection division (EPD) of the department of natural resources.
Drainage easement: An easement appurtenant or attached to a tract or parcel of land allowing the owner of adjacent tracts or other persons to discharge stormwater runoff onto the tract or parcel of land subject to the drainage easement.
Drainage structure: A device composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for stormwater management, drainage control or flood control purposes.
Drip line: The peripheral limits of the horizontal crown of a tree spread vertically to the ground; provided, however, that the same shall not be less than a circle with a five-foot radius measured from the center of the tree.
Emergency as used in Chapter 310, Article 4 Noise: Any occurrence or set or set of circumstances involving actual or imminent physical trauma or property damage which demands immediate action.
Emergency work as used in Chapter 310, Article 4 Noise: Any work or action performed for the purpose of preventing or alleviating the physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an emergency.
Equivalent residential unit (ERU): The unit of measure which provides the basis for comparing the runoff generated by one parcel with that generated by another. An ERU shall be the median impervious coverage of a statistical sampling of single detached dwelling lots in the county, which has been determined to be 3,000 square feet of impervious area.
Erosion: The process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
Erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan: A plan required by the Erosion and Sedimentation Act, O.C.G.A. ch. 12-7 that includes, as a minimum protections at least as stringent as the state general permit, best management practices, and requirements in Subsection 310-3(c) of this ordinance.
Existing construction, as used in Chapter 330 Floodplain Management: Any structure for which the "start of construction" commenced before July 1, 2006.
Extreme flood protection: Measures taken to prevent adverse impacts from large low-frequency storm events with a return frequency of 100 years or more.
Federal Clean Water Act or Clean Water Act: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, presently codified at 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq., and all regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
Fill: A portion of the land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground surface or an excavation.
Final stabilization as used in Chapter 310, Article 1 Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution: All soil-disturbing activities at the site have been completed, and that for unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures and areas located outside the waste disposal limits of a landfill cell that has been certified by EPD for waste disposal, 100 percent of the soil surface is uniformly covered in permanent vegetation with a density of 70 percent or greater, or landscaping according to the plan (uniformly covered with landscaping materials in planned landscape areas), or equivalent permanent stabilization measures as defined in the Manual (excluding a crop of annual vegetation and seeding of target crop perennials appropriate for the region). Final stabilization applies to each phase of construction.
Finished floor elevation (FFE): The elevation of the lowest floor level that is entirely at or above the ground. The FFE is set at the top of the foundation wall, and does not refer to the floor elevation of the basement since it is below grade.
Finished Grade: The final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Flood or flooding: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
(1)
The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
(2)
The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
Flood hazard area: Any site designated by the Federal Emergency Management Authority (FEMA) as susceptible to flooding, and shown on the official flood hazard boundary map and/or flood insurance rate maps for the Belmont area.
Flood insurance rate map or FIRM: The official map of a community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Association, delineating the areas of special flood hazard and/or risk premium zones applicable to the community.
Flood insurance study or FIS: The official report by the Federal Emergency Management Association evaluating flood hazards and containing flood profiles and water surface elevations of the base flood.
Floodplain as used in Chapter 310, Article 2 Stream Buffer Protection: Any land area susceptible to flooding, which would have at least a one percent probability of flooding occurrence in any calendar year based on the basin being fully developed as shown on the current land use plan; i.e., the regulatory flood.
Floodplain or "Flood-prone area" as used in Chapter 330 Floodplain Management: Any land area susceptible to flooding.
Floodproofing: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
Floodway or regulatory floodway: The channel of a stream or other watercourse and the adjacent areas of the floodplain which is necessary to contain and discharge the base flood flow without cumulatively increasing the base flood elevation more than one foot.
Functionally dependent, as used in Chapter 330 Floodplain Management: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water.
Future-conditions flood: The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year based on future-conditions hydrology. Also known as the 100-year future-conditions flood.
Future-conditions flood elevation: The flood standard equal to or higher than the base flood elevation. The future-conditions flood elevation is defined as the highest water surface anticipated at any given point during the future-conditions flood.
Future-conditions floodplain: Any land area susceptible to flooding by the future-conditions flood.
Future-conditions hydrology: The flood discharges associated with projected land-use conditions based on a community's zoning map, comprehensive land-use plans, and/or watershed study projections, and without consideration of projected future construction of flood detention structures or projected future hydraulic modifications within a stream or other waterway, such as bridge and culvert construction, fill and excavation.
Georgia EPD: The Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
Georgia Water Quality Control Act or Water Quality Control Act: The Georgia Quality Control Act, as amended, presently codified at O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq., and all regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
Grading: Altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Greenspace: Permanently protected areas of the site that are preserved in a natural state.
Greenway: A linear park and alternative transportation route approved by the City that provides passive recreational opportunities, pedestrian and/or bicycle paths, and conservation of open spaces or natural areas.
Ground elevation: The original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Groundwater: Water beneath the Earth's surface between saturated soil and rock.
Groundwater recharge area (synonymous with aquifer recharge area): An area of the Earth's surface where water infiltrates the ground, thereby replenishing the groundwater supplies within an aquifer. See also "Groundwater recharge areas, significant."
Groundwater recharge areas, significant: Areas mapped by DNR in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 edition). Mapping of recharge areas is based on outcrop area, lithology (chemical nature and form of the rock), soil type and thickness, slope, density of lithologic contact, geologic structure, presence of "karst" topography (sinkholes, caves and fissures associated with limestone and other carbonate rocks), and potentiometric surfaces.
Historic structure: Any structure that is:
(1)
Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
(2)
Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
(3)
Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
(4)
Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
a.
By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior, or
b.
Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
Hotspot: An area where the use of the land has the potential to generate highly contaminated runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in stormwater.
Hydrologic response: The manner and means whereby stormwater collects, remains, infiltrates, and is conveyed from a property. It is dependent on several factors including, but not limited to, the presence of impervious area, the size, shape, topographic, vegetative, and geologic conditions of a property, antecedent moisture conditions, and groundwater conditions on a property.
Hydrologic soil group (HSG): A natural resource conservation service classification system in which soils are categorized into four runoff potential groups. The groups range from group A soils, with high permeability and little runoff produced, to group D soils, which have low permeability rates and produce much more runoff.
Illegal connection as used in Chapter: Either of the following:
(1)
Any pipe, open channel, drain, or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drain system including but not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system, regardless of whether such pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance has been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
(2)
Any pipe, open channel, drain, or conveyance connected to the municipal separate storm sewer system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
Illicit discharge: Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer system, except as exempted in Section 340-18.
Industrial activity: Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as defined in 40 CFR, section 122.26(b)(14).
Industrial stormwater permit: A national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit issued to an industry or group of industries which regulates the pollutant levels associated with industrial stormwater discharges or specifies on-site pollution control strategies based on Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Code.
Infiltration: The process of percolating stormwater runoff into the subsoil.
Inspection and maintenance agreement: A written agreement providing for the long-term inspection and maintenance of stormwater management facilities and practices, including their associated landscaping measures on a site or with respect to a land development project, which when properly recorded in the deed records constitutes a restriction on the title to a site or other land involved in a land development project.
Interested parties:
(1)
Owner;
(2)
Those parties having an interest in the property as revealed by a certification of title to the property conducted in accordance with the title standards of the State Bar of Georgia;
(3)
Those parties having filed a notice in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-3-9;
(4)
Any other party having an interest in the property whose identity and address are reasonably ascertainable from the records of the petitioner or records maintained in the county courthouse or by the clerk of the court. Interested parties shall not include the holder of the benefit or burden of any easement or right-of-way whose interest is properly recorded which interest shall remain unaffected; and
(5)
Persons in possession of said property and premises.
Jurisdictional wetland: An area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation.
Land-Disturbing Activity: Any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the evolvement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land but not including agricultural practices as described in Subsection 310-2(a)(5) of this UDO.
Larger Common Plan of Development or Sale, as used in Chapter 310, Article 1 Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution: A contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct construction activities are occurring under one plan of development or sale. For the purposes of this paragraph, "plan" means an announcement; piece of documentation such as a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request, or computer design; or physical demarcation such as boundary signs, lot stakes, or surveyor markings, indicating that construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
Local Issuing Authority, as used in Chapter 310, Article 1 Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution: The governing authority of any county or municipality which is certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a).
Maintenance, as used in Chapter 340 Stormwater Management: Any action necessary to preserve stormwater conveyances in proper working condition, in order to serve the intended purposes set forth in this appendix or to prevent structural failure of such conveyances.
Multi-use path: A path physically separated from motor vehicle traffic by a landscaped area or barrier within the street right-of-way or an independent easement. A multi-use path is used by several transportation modes, including bicyclists, pedestrians, joggers, skaters and other non-motorized travelers. Multi-use paths accommodate two-way travel.
Municipal separate storm sewer system: Any facility designed or used for collecting and/or conveying stormwater, including but not limited to, any roads with drainage systems, highways, city streets, streets, curbs, gutters, inlets, catch basins, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, structural stormwater controls, ditches, swales, natural and manmade or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures, and which is:
(1)
Owned or maintained by the City;
(2)
Not a combined sewer; and
(3)
Not part of a publicly-owned treatment works.
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929: A vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
National pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) stormwater discharge permit: A permit issued by the Georgia EPD under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC § 1342(b) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
Natural Ground Surface: The ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation or filling.
Naturalized, as used in Chapter 320 Buffers, Landscaping, and Tree Protection: Adapted or acclimated to a new environment; introduced and established as if native.
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTU): Numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed or suspended particles are present.
New construction, as used in Chapter 330 Floodplain Management: Any structure (see definition) for which the "start of construction" commenced after July 1, 2006 and includes any subsequent improvements to the structure.
Noise: Any sound which annoys or disturbs humans or causes or tends to cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
Noise disturbance: Any sound that:
(1)
Endangers the safety or health of any person;
(2)
Disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities; or
(3)
Endangers personal or real property.
Noise sensitive facility: Any facility whose operations may be detrimentally impacted by excessive sound levels. Such facilities include, but are not limited to, schools, hospitals and places of worship.
Nonpoint source pollution: A form of water pollution that does not originate from a discrete point such as a sewage treatment plant or industrial discharge, but involves the transport of pollutants such as sediment, fertilizers, pesticides, heavy metals, oil, grease, bacteria, organic materials and other contaminants from land to surface water and groundwater via mechanisms such as precipitation, stormwater runoff, and leaching. Nonpoint source pollution is a by-product of land use practices such as agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
Non-stormwater discharge: Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not composed entirely of stormwater.
Nonstructural stormwater management practice or nonstructural practice: Any natural or planted vegetation or other nonstructural component of the stormwater management plan that provides for or enhances stormwater quantity and/or quality control or other stormwater management benefits, and includes, but is not limited to, riparian buffers, open and greenspace areas, overland flow filtration areas, natural depressions and vegetated channels.
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988: A vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
Notice of intent (NOI): A notice of intent form provided by EPD for coverage under the State General Permit.
Notice of termination (NOT): A notice of termination form provided by EPD to terminate coverage under the state general permit.
Nuisances: Any activity that endangers the health, welfare or good order of the community.
(1)
Stagnant water on any premises;
(2)
Any dead or decaying matter, weeds or vegetation, or any fruit, vegetable, animal or rodent, upon any premises, which is odorous or capable of causing disease or annoyance to the inhabitants of the City;
(3)
The generation of smoke or fumes in sufficient amounts to cause odor or annoyance to the inhabitants of the City;
(4)
The pollution of public water or the injection of matter into the sewer system which would be damaging thereto, or the pollution of public water or the injection of matter or other non-stormwater discharges into the separate stormwater sewer;
(5)
Maintaining a dangerous or diseased animal or fowl;
(6)
Obstruction of a public street, highway or sidewalk without a permit;
(7)
Any unauthorized accumulation of garbage or trash on any premises;
(8)
All walls, trees and buildings that may endanger persons or property;
(9)
Any business or building where illegal activities are habitually and commonly conducted in such a manner as to reasonably suggest that the owner or operator of the business or building was aware of the illegal activities and failed to reasonably attempt to prevent such activities; and
(10)
Unused freezers, refrigerators and the like, unless the doors, latches or locks thereof are removed.
Octave band: All the components in a sound spectrum whose frequencies are between two sine wave components separated by an octave.
Off-site, as used in Chapter 320 Buffers, Landscaping, and Tree Protection: For tree relocation and tree replacement, means any location in excess of one (1) mile from the tree's original location.
Off-site facility, as used in Chapter 340 Stormwater Management: A stormwater management facility located outside the boundaries of the site.
On-site, as used in Chapter 320 Buffers, Landscaping, and Tree Protection: For tree relocation and tree replacement, means any location one (1) mile or less from the tree's original location.
On-site facility, as used in Chapter 340 Stormwater Management: A stormwater management facility located within the boundaries of the site.
Operator: The party or parties that have: (A) operational control of construction project plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications; or (B) day-to-day operational control of those activities that are necessary to ensure compliance with an erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan for the site or other permit conditions, such as a person authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out activities required by the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan or to comply with other permit conditions.
Outfall: The location where stormwater in a discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, leaves a facility or site or, if there is a receiving water on-site, becomes a point source discharging into that receiving water.
Overbank flood protection: Measures taken to prevent an increase in the frequency and magnitude of out-of-bank flooding (i.e., flow events that exceed the capacity of the channel and enter the floodplain), and that are intended to protect downstream properties from flooding for the two-year through 25-year frequency storm events.
Overstory trees: Those trees that compose the top layer or canopy of vegetation and will generally reach a mature height of greater than 40 feet (40').
Pedestrian walkway: A walking surface similar to a sidewalk, which facilitates the safe, unobstructed and convenient flow of pedestrians internally on a private property.
Permit, as used in Chapter 310, Article 1 Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution: The authorization necessary to conduct a land-disturbing activity under the provisions of this ordinance.
Permit, as used in Chapter 340 Stormwater Management: The national pollution discharge elimination system permit for discharges from the City of Chamblee Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System issued by the Georgia EPD or such subsequent permit or authorization for discharges from the City of Chamblee Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System to waters of the state.
Person: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of the State of Georgia, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Phase or Phased, as used in Chapter 310, Article 1 Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution: Sub-parts or segments of construction projects where the sub-part or segment is constructed and stabilized prior to completing construction activities on the entire construction site.
Pollutant: Anything, which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; petroleum hydrocarbons; automotive fluids; cooking grease; detergents (biodegradable or otherwise); degreasers; cleaning chemicals; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers; liquid and solid wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or structure; concrete and cement; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
Pollution or polluted: The contamination or other alteration of any of water's physical, chemical or biological properties, including, but not limited to, change in temperature, taste, color, turbidity, or odor of such waters; or the discharge of any liquid, gaseous, solid, radioactive, or other substance into the City of Chamblee Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System as will or is likely to create a nuisance or render any waters contained therein or discharged into waters of the state harmful, detrimental or injurious to the public health, safety or general welfare or to domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational, or other legitimate beneficial uses, or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or other aquatic life.
Pollution susceptibility: The relative vulnerability of groundwater to pollution from chemical spills, leaching of pollutants from dumpsites, animal waste from agricultural operations of pollution generated by other human activities.
Pollution susceptibility map(s): Maps prepared by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources (DNR) that shows the relative susceptibility of groundwater to pollution. Pollution susceptibility maps categorize the land areas of the State into areas of high, medium and low groundwater pollution potential.
Post-construction (stormwater): Stormwater best management practices that are used on a permanent basis to control runoff once construction is complete.
Post-development: The time period, or the conditions that may reasonably be expected or anticipated to exist, after completion of the land development activity on a site as the context may require.
Pre-development: The time period, or the conditions that exist, on a site prior to the commencement of a land development project and at the time that plans for the land development of a site are approved by the plan approving authority. However, if removal and replacement of impervious surfaces occur on more than 50 percent of the site, then the pre-development condition shall be characterized hydrologically with an SCS curve number of 60 or a rational method runoff coefficient of 0.30, unless stated otherwise within this appendix. Where phased development or plan approval occurs (preliminary grading, roads and utilities, etc.), the existing conditions at the time prior to the first item being approved or permitted shall establish pre-development conditions.
Procedure, as used in Chapter 340 Stormwater Management: A procedure adopted by the department to implement a regulation or regulations adopted under this appendix, or to carry out other responsibilities as may be required by this appendix or other chapters of this Code, or other ordinances or resolutions of the City or other agencies.
Project, as used in Chapter 310, Article 1 Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution: The entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
Properly designed: Designed in accordance with the design requirements and specifications contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" (Manual), published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted and amendments to the manual as approved by the commission up until the date of NOI submittal.
Protected zone: All lands which fall outside the buildable area of a parcel, all areas of a parcel required to remain in open space, and/or all areas required as yards, buffers or landscaped areas according to provisions of the City zoning ordinance or conditions of zoning or variance approval.
Protection area, or stream protection area means, with respect to a stream: The combined areas of all required buffers and setbacks applicable to such stream.
Public or private property (as used in Chapter 340, Article 3 Litter Control): The right-of-way of any road or highway; any body of water or watercourse or the shores or beaches thereof; any park, playground, building, refuge, or conservation or recreation area; timberlands or forests; and residential, commercial, industrial or farm properties.
Public tree: Any tree located in the public right-of-way or City-owned property.
Real property line: The line, including its vertical extension that separates one parcel of real property from another.
Recompense: The dollar value to the City of a tree on private or public property used for the purpose of calculating cash recompense for removal or destruction.
Redevelopment: A land development project on a previously developed site, but excludes ordinary maintenance activities, resurfacing of paved areas, and exterior changes or improvements which do not materially increase or concentrate stormwater runoff, or cause additional nonpoint source pollution.
Regional stormwater management facility: Stormwater management facilities designed to control stormwater runoff from multiple properties, where the owners or developers of the individual properties may assist in the financing of the facility, and the requirement for on-site controls is either eliminated or reduced.
Required decommissioning date: Twelve months after a previously permitted SES no longer is in operation as a power generating facility.
Reservation: A reservation of land does not involve any transfer of property rights. It simply constitutes an obligation to keep property free from development for a stated period of time.
Resident: Any person residing in the jurisdiction where the property is located on or after the date on which the alleged nuisance arose.
Riparian: Belonging or related to the bank of a river, stream, lake, pond or impoundment.
Roadway drainage structure: A device such as a bridge, culvert or ditch, composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled roadway consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Runoff: Stormwater runoff.
Sanitary sewer system: The complete sanitary sewer system of the City which discharges sanitary sewerage directly or indirectly into the sewage treatment plant, including sanitary sewer pipelines, manholes and flushing inlets and appurtenances to the foregoing, but shall exclude any portion or facilities of the sewage treatment plant.
Sediment: Solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by wind, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sedimentation: The process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
Service fees: The stormwater management service fees applicable to a parcel of developed land, which charge shall be used to fund the City stormwater utility's cost of providing stormwater management services and facilities.
Soil and water conservation district approved plan: An erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan approved in writing by the DeKalb County Soil and Water Conservation District or the City of Chamblee, in accordance with the approved Memorandum of Agreement.
Sound level meter (SLM): An instrument used to measure sound pressure levels conforming to type 1 or type 2 standards as specified in ANSI Standard Sl.4-1983 or the latest version thereof.
Stabilization, as used in Chapter 310, Article 1 Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution: The process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
State general permit: The National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) general permit or permits for stormwater runoff from construction activities as is now in effect or as may be amended or reissued in the future, pursuant to the state's authority to implement the same through federal delegation under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq., and O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f).
State waters: Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of Georgia which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership or corporation.
Stormwater: Any type of stormwater runoff, snow melt runoff, surface or subsurface runoff or drainage.
Stormwater better site design: Nonstructural site design approaches and techniques that can reduce a site's impact on the watershed and can provide for nonstructural stormwater management. Stormwater better site design includes conserving and protecting natural areas and greenspace, reducing impervious cover and using natural features for stormwater management.
Stormwater conveyance: Natural or constructed stormwater conduits, features, facilities or best management practices designed or used for the collection, conveyance or treatment of stormwater through open or closed drainage systems, including, but not limited to, pipes, ditches, depressions, swales, roads with drainage systems, highways, rights-of-way, county streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels, storm drains, detention ponds, retention ponds, infiltration devices, oil/water separators, sediment basins, modular pavement or other such devices.
Stormwater discharge associated with industrial activity: The discharge from any stormwater conveyance which is directly related to manufacturing, processing or raw materials storage areas at an industrial facility. The term includes, but is not limited to, stormwater discharges from industrial facility yards; immediate access roads and rails lines used or traveled by carriers of raw materials, manufactured products, waste materials or by-products used or created by the facility; material handling sites; refuse sites; sites used for the storage and maintenance of material handling equipment; sites used for application or disposal of process wastewaters; sites used for residual treatment, storage, or disposal; shipping and receiving areas; manufacturing buildings; storage areas (including tank farms for raw materials, and intermediate and finished products); and areas where industrial activity has taken place in the past and significant materials remain and are exposed to stormwater.
Stormwater management: The collection, conveyance, storage, treatment and disposal of stormwater runoff in a manner intended to prevent increased flood damage, streambank channel erosion, habitat degradation and water quality degradation, and to enhance and promote the public health, safety and general welfare. Stormwater management shall include a system of vegetative or structural measures, or both.
Stormwater management facility: Any infrastructure that controls or conveys stormwater runoff.
Stormwater management measure: Any stormwater management facility or nonstructural stormwater practice.
Stormwater management plan: A document describing how existing runoff characteristics will be affected by a land development project and containing measures for complying with the provisions of this appendix.
Stormwater management system: The entire set of structural and nonstructural stormwater management facilities and practices that are used to capture, convey and control the quantity and quality of the stormwater runoff from a site.
Stormwater retrofit: A stormwater management practice designed for a currently developed site that previously had either no stormwater management practice in place or a practice inadequate to meet the stormwater management requirements of the site.
Stormwater runoff: The direct response of a land surface to precipitation and includes the surface and subsurface runoff or drainage or other concentrated flow that enters a stormwater conveyance during and following precipitation.
Stream: A flowing body of water, beginning at:
(1)
The location of a spring, seep, or groundwater outflow that sustains streamflow;
(2)
A point in the stream channel with a drainage area of 25 acres or more; or
(3)
Where evidence indicates the presence of a stream in a drainage area of more than 25 acres, the City may require field studies to verify the existence of a stream.
Stream bank: The sloping land that contains the stream channel and the normal flows of the stream.
Stream channel: The portion of a watercourse that contains the base flow of the stream.
Stream, ephemeral: A stream that flows only briefly during and following a period of rainfall in the immediate area.
Stream, Intermittent: A stream that flows for only part of the year or seasonally.
Structural erosion, sedimentation and pollution control practices: Practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures and sediment traps, etc. Such practices can be found in the publication, "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia."
Structural stormwater control: A structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow of such runoff.
Structure: A walled and roofed building (including a gas or liquid storage tank) that is principally above ground, or a manufactured home.
Substantial improvement: Any combination of repairs, reconstruction, alteration or improvements to a building, taking place during a ten-year period, in which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure prior to the improvement. The market value of the building means:
(1)
The appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement; or
(2)
In the case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the damage occurring.
This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial damage" regardless of the actual amount of repair work performed. For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building. The term does not, however, include those improvements of a building required to comply with existing health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions, which have been pre-identified by the code enforcement official, and not solely triggered by an improvement or repair project.
Tree: Any self-supporting, woody perennial plant which has a trunk diameter of two inches or more when measured at a point six inches above ground level and which normally attains an overall height of at least ten feet at maturity, usually with one main stem or trunk and many branches.
(1)
Boundary tree: A tree on adjacent property whose root save area intrudes across the property line of the site under consideration, including across City limits.
(2)
Destroyed tree: When there is over 30 percent impact to the critical root zone of a tree, it shall be considered destroyed.
(3)
Hardwood tree: Any leaf-bearing (not needle-bearing) tree that is not coniferous (cone-bearing). This definition is based on the colloquialism, and does not reflect any true qualities of the tree.
(4)
Hazardous tree: A tree certified by a horticultural professional as having a major structural fault that could lead to catastrophic loss and could injure or damage property or human targets. Major structural faults may include, but not be limited to, large vertical cracks, decayed areas or columns, including bark areas, forks, dead wood/branches, hollows, significant leans, openings to the inner portions and mechanically damaged areas. Minor faults (correctable faults requiring care) may include things such as pavement buckles, surface roots, small dead wood, tree litter, animal/insect activities, entrapment, face-level branches, and destruction of surrounding property.
(5)
Public tree: Any tree which exists on publicly owned or controlled property or right-of-way.
(6)
Softwood trees: Any coniferous (cone-bearing) tree, such as pine, fire, hemlock, cedar, etc. This definition is based on the colloquialism, and does not necessarily reflect any true qualities of the tree.
(7)
Specimen tree or tree stand: Any tree or group of trees which has been determined to be of high value because of its species, size, age or other definable criteria.
(8)
Understory tree: Those trees that grow beneath the overstory, and will generally reach a mature height of less than forty feet (40').
Tree protection zone: An area encompassing one and one-half times the diameter of a tree, which is protected by some physical method.
Tree removal: Any act, which causes a tree to die within two (2) years after commission of the act, including but not limited to, damage inflicted upon the root system in the Critical Root Zone or trunk, as the result of:
(1)
The improper use of machinery on the trees;
(2)
The storage of materials in or around the trees;
(3)
Soil compaction;
(4)
Altering the natural grade to expose the roots or to cover the tree's root system with more than four (4) inches of soil;
(5)
Causing the infection or infestation of the tree by pests, fungus or harmful bacteria;
(6)
Pruning judged to be excessive by the Administrator or not in accordance with the standard set forth by the International Society of Arboriculture (ISA);
(7)
Paving with concrete, asphalt or other impervious surface within such proximity as to be harmful to the tree or its root system; and
(8)
Application of herbicides or defoliants to any tree without first obtaining a permit.
Tree save area: All areas designated for the purpose of meeting tree density requirements, saving specimen trees, and/or preserving natural buffers.
Tree species selection list: The City of Chamblee's recommended species of trees.
Trout streams: All streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the Wildlife Resources Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20, in the rules and regulations for water quality control, Chapter 391-3-6 at www.epd.georgia.gov. Streams designated as primary trout waters are defined as water supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout. Streams designated as secondary trout waters are those in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction, but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year. First order trout waters are streams into which no other streams flow except springs.
Undeveloped land: Land in it unaltered natural state or which has been modified to such minimal degree as to have a hydrologic response comparable to land in an unaltered natural state shall be deemed undeveloped. Undeveloped land shall have no more than 100 square feet of impervious surface.
Undeveloped property: Property upon which no building, structure, pavement or other improvements have been placed.
Unpolluted: The absence of pollution.
Vegetative erosion and sedimentation control measures: Measures found in the publication, "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by covering the soil with:
(1)
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover; or
(2)
Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or
(3)
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
Such measures can be found in the publications Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Violation: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the City's floodplain management regulations. A structure or other development without the elevation certificate, other certificates, or other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
Water quality: Those characteristics of stormwater that relate to the physical, chemical, biological or radiological integrity of water.
Water quantity: Those characteristics of stormwater that relate to the rate and volume of the stormwater, both surface and subsurface.
Watercourse: Any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine or wash, in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Watershed: The land area that drains into a particular stream.
Wetlands: Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18; Ord. No. 776 , 12-17-19; Ord. No. 784 , 8-18-20; Ord. No. 805 , 12-21-21)
Section 300-4. - Priority of conditions of zoning over these regulations.
Whenever there is a discrepancy between the requirements of this UDO and those contained in adopted building codes applicable regulations of the state or federal government, the most restrictive shall apply. In those instances where a specific project is subject to a condition of zoning approval that is more restrictive, the requirements of the zoning conditions shall control.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17)
Section 300-5. - Incorporation of standard drawings and design guidelines.
(a)
The City hereby incorporates by reference the standard drawings of DeKalb County and the Georgia Department of Transportation for water, sewer and transportation infrastructure. Development proposals within the City of Chamblee shall be consistent with these standard drawings except as provided below.
(b)
Exceptions to Subsection 300-5(a) may be made for selected street details, bike paths, alleys, and streetscapes as specified by the City. In the case of conflicts between DeKalb County standards and the standards in Title 3 or Addendas 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0 of this UDO, the Planning and Development Director may determine that the City's standards will govern.
(c)
Additional guidelines for erosion control, tree preservation, and stormwater management shall also apply as provided in Chapters 310, 320 and 340.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18)
Section 300-6. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 776 , adopted Dec. 17, 2019, deleted § 300-6 entitled "Pre-application conference," which derived from: Ord. No. 743 , adopted Dec. 19, 2017; and Ord. No. 757 , adopted Dec. 18, 2018.
Section 300-7. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 805 , adopted Dec. 21, 2021, deleted § 300-7 entitled "Permit expiration," which derived from Ord. No. 743 , adopted Dec. 19, 2017.
Section 300-8. - Waivers.
Waivers permit specified minor deviations from Title 3 and other authorized portions of the Unified Development Ordinance. Waivers are intended to relieve practical difficulties in complying with the strict requirements of this Code. Waivers are not intended to relieve specific cases of financial hardship, nor to allow circumventing of the intent of this Code. Request for waiver shall be submitted per application requirements outlined on forms produced by the Planning and Development Department.
(a)
The City Council may authorize waivers based on consideration of the following criteria:
(1)
Features such as topography, high frequency transmission lines, existing trees of specimen or significant quality, underlying rock, or other condition outside the owner's control to the extent that strict adherence to said requirements would be unreasonable and not consistent with the purposes and goals of this code;
(2)
Proposal will not result in any detriment to the public good, including without limitation, detriment to the interest of the public, and will not result in any harm to the health, safety or general welfare of the City and its citizens; and
(3)
Alternative streetscape or building/facade design configurations are provided (where applicable).
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18; Ord. No. 805 , 12-21-21)
Section 300-9. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 2. - DEVELOPMENT DESIGN STANDARDS

Section 300-10. - Land development, subdivision and site design.
(a)
Project access improvements. Except as provided in Section 300-21, every land development in the City shall provide the project access improvements required in this UDO and other pertinent codes, ordinances, and regulations of the City of Chamblee. Project improvements and associated rights-of-way or easements shall be provided at no cost to the City of Chamblee and shall be dedicated or otherwise transferred, as required, to the public in perpetuity and without covenant or reservation, except as otherwise provided by law.
(b)
Right of refusal of dedication. Whenever a developer proposes the dedication of land to public use, and the Planning and Development Director or the appropriate agency finds that such land is neither required nor is it suitable for public use, the Planning and Development Director shall refuse such dedication and may require the rearrangement of lots to include such land in private ownership. Any lot or lot remnant that does not meet the standards of a buildable lot shall be restricted by a conservation easement in a manner approved by the Mayor and City Council.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18)
Section 300-11. - Land suitability.
(a)
Land subject to flood hazard, improper drainage, erosion or that is for topographical or other reasons unsuitable for use as determined by the Planning and Development Director, shall not be platted for any use that will continue or increase the danger to health, safety or property unless the hazards can be and are corrected.
(1)
Flood hazard area development. Land within designated flood zones as shown on FEMA maps for the Chamblee area shall be identified on all plats, see Subsection 330-5(e). No structures or fill shall be placed in the floodway which would interfere with the natural watercourse except when shown to have no downstream impact by competent study of a licensed hydrologic engineer licensed in the State of Georgia. Streets and utility lines and structures may be placed within the flood hazard area only if their elevation is raised above maximum flood heights or if they are otherwise flood protected.
(2)
Demolition landfill development. Areas that have been used for the disposal of solid waste shall not be subdivided into commercial or residential building sites. This includes areas that have been used for the disposal of trash, demolition waste, and other waste materials.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18)
Section 300-12. - Design of lots.
(a)
With the exception of minimum lot size requirements for lots created under the provisions of a conservation subdivision (Section 300-14), no lot, even though it may consist of one or more adjacent lots of record, shall be reduced in size so that the lot width or depth, front, side or rear yards, lot area or buffer specification table dimensional requirements of this UDO are not maintained, unless approved through a variance authorized by the UDO. Lots created after the effective date of this UDO shall meet said minimum size and dimensional requirements established by this UDO. This section shall not apply when, and to the extent that, a portion of a lot is acquired for a public purpose.
(b)
The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation, and the minimum building setback lines shall comply with the requirements established in Title 2 of the UDO.
(c)
Corner lots. See Section 230-1, Dimensional Standards of zoning districts. Both Front and Street Side Yard requirements would apply. See Section 230-3, Contextual Lot and Building Standards for Infill Development, if applicable.
(d)
Through lots. When through lots are required for residential subdivisions abutting boulevards, primary or secondary streets a vehicular no-access easement of at least ten feet in width shall be required abutting the back of curb of such thoroughfare, across which there shall be no right of access except approved bicycle or pedestrian pathways. The vehicular no-access easement may be incorporated into the design of the required sidewalk zone and/or landscape zone for the streetscape or landscape strip along such major thoroughfare. See Section 320-22 for landscaping requirements of vehicular no-access easements.
(e)
The Planning and Development Director may approve an unbuildable lot of record in a proposed subdivision only for the following purposes:
(1)
No lot shall be reduced in size so that minimum lot width or depth, size of yards, or any other lot requirement is not maintained. This limitation shall not apply when a portion of a lot has been lawfully acquired for public purpose or for unbuildable lots used exclusively for subdivision identification signage or subdivision entrance landscape features or stormwater facilities.
(2)
To provide a location for a ground sign permitted in Chapter 260.
(3)
To provide a location for a stormwater management facility as provided in Section 340-39, Post-Development Stormwater Management Performance Criteria.
(4)
To provide common areas.
(f)
The establishment of any new split-zoned lot is prohibited.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18)
Section 300-13. - Reserved.
Section 300-14. - Conservation subdivisions.
(a)
Purposes.
(1)
To provide for the preservation of greenspace as a nonstructural stormwater runoff and watershed protection measure.
(2)
To provide a residential zoning district that permits flexibility of design in order to promote environmentally sensitive and efficient uses of the land.
(3)
To preserve in perpetuity unique or sensitive natural resources such as groundwater, floodplains, wetlands, streams, steep slopes, woodlands and wildlife habitat.
(4)
To permit clustering of houses and structures on less environmentally sensitive soils which will reduce the amount of infrastructure, including paved surfaces and utility easements, necessary for residential development.
(5)
To reduce erosion and sedimentation by minimizing land disturbance and removal of vegetation in residential development.
(6)
To promote interconnected greenways and corridors throughout the community.
(7)
To promote contiguous greenspace with adjacent jurisdictions.
(8)
To encourage interaction in the community by clustering houses and orienting them closer to the street, providing public gathering places and encouraging use of parks and community facilities as focal points in the neighborhood.
(9)
To encourage street designs that reduce traffic speeds and reliance on main arteries.
(10)
To promote construction of convenient landscaped walking trails and bike paths both within the subdivision and connected to neighboring communities, businesses, and facilities to reduce reliance on automobiles.
(11)
To conserve scenic views and reduce perceived density by maximizing the number of houses with direct access to and views of open space.
(12)
To preserve important historic and archaeological sites.
(b)
General regulations.
(1)
Applicability of regulations. This conservation subdivision option shall be limited to the NR-1 zoning district. Applicant shall comply with all other provisions of the zoning code and all other applicable laws, except for minimum lot size. Minimum lot size may be reduced, provided that all minimum setback and building spacing requirements are met, without the need for a variance.
(2)
Minimum subdivision size. Conservation subdivisions shall be a minimum of five acres in area.
(3)
Reserved.
(4)
Ownership of development site. The tract of land to be subdivided shall be held in single and separate ownership. If it is to be sold in multiple ownership, however, the site shall be developed according to a single plan with common authority and common responsibility.
(5)
Housing density determination. The maximum number of lots in the conservation subdivision shall be determined by either of the following two methods, at the discretion of the Planning and Development Director or his/her designee:
a.
Calculation: The maximum number of lots is determined by dividing the area of the tract of land by the minimum lot size specified in the underlying zoning. In making this calculation, the following shall not be included in the total area of the parcel:
1.
Slopes over 25 percent of at least 5,000 square feet contiguous area;
2.
The 100-year floodplain;
3.
Bodies of open water over 5,000 square feet contiguous area; or
4.
Wetlands that meet the definition of the Army Corps of Engineers pursuant to the Clean Water Act.
b.
Yield plan. The maximum number of lots is based on a conventional subdivision design plan, prepared by the applicant, in which the tract of land is subdivided in a manner intended to yield the highest number of lots possible. The plan does not have to meet formal requirements for a site design plan, but the design must be capable of being constructed given site features and all applicable regulations pertinent to a conventional subdivision. When using this method, the developer is entitled to achieve a yield that is equivalent to that shown on the yield plan multiplied by the factor of 1.2, provided all setback regulations are met or appropriate variances are obtained.
(c)
Application requirements.
(1)
Site analysis map required. Concurrent with the submission of a site concept plan, the applicant shall prepare and submit a site analysis map. The purpose of the site analysis map is to ensure that the important site features have been adequately identified prior to the creation of the site design, and that the proposed open space will meet the requirements of this article. The preliminary site plan shall include the following features:
a.
Property boundaries;
b.
All streams, rivers, lakes, wetlands and other hydrologic features;
c.
Stream buffer requirements of Chapter 310, Article 2 of this Title 3;
d.
Topographic contours of no less than ten-foot intervals;
e.
All primary and secondary conservation areas labeled by type, as described in Subsection 300-14(d)(2) of this article;
f.
General vegetation characteristics;
g.
General soil types;
h.
The planned location of protected open space;
i.
Existing roads and structures; and
j.
Potential connections with existing greenspace and trails.
(2)
Open space management plan required. An open space management plan, as described in Subsection 300-14(d), shall be prepared and submitted prior to the issuance of a land disturbance permit.
(3)
Instrument of permanent protection required. An instrument of permanent protection, such as a conservation easement or permanent restrictive covenant and as described in Subsection 300-14(d), shall be placed on the open space concurrent with the issuance of a land disturbance permit.
(4)
Other requirements. The applicant shall adhere to all other applicable requirements of the underlying City zoning code.
(d)
Open space.
(1)
Definition. Open space is the portion of the conservation subdivision that has been set aside for permanent protection. Activities within the open space are restricted in perpetuity through the use of an approved legal instrument.
(2)
Standards to determine open space.
a.
The minimum restricted open space shall comprise at least 30 percent of the gross tract area.
b.
The following are considered primary conservation areas and are required to be included within the open space, unless the applicant demonstrates that this provision would constitute an unusual hardship and be counter to the purposes of this article:
1.
The regulatory 100-year floodplain;
2.
Buffer zones of at least 75-foot width along all perennial and intermittent streams;
3.
Slopes above 25 percent of at least 5,000 square feet contiguous area;
4.
Wetlands that meet the definition used by the Army Corps of Engineers pursuant to the Clean Water Act;
5.
Populations of endangered or threatened species, or habitat for such species; and
6.
Archaeological sites, cemeteries and burial grounds.
c.
The following are considered secondary conservation areas and should be included within the open space to the maximum extent feasible:
1.
Important historic sites;
2.
Existing healthy, native forests of at least one acre contiguous area;
3.
Other significant natural features and scenic viewsheds such as ridge lines, peaks and rock outcroppings, particularly those that can be seen from public roads; and
4.
Existing or proposed trails that connect the tract to neighboring areas.
d.
Above ground utility rights-of-way and small areas of impervious surface may be included within the protected open space but cannot be counted towards the 30 percent minimum area requirement (exception: historic structures and existing trails may be counted). Large areas of impervious surface shall be excluded from the open space.
e.
At least 75 percent of the open space shall be in a contiguous tract. The open space should adjoin any neighboring areas of open space, other protected areas, and non-protected natural areas that would be candidates for inclusion as part of a future area of protected open space.
f.
The open space shall be directly accessible to the largest practicable number of lots within the subdivision. Non-adjoining lots shall be provided with safe, convenient access to the open space.
(3)
Permitted uses of open space. Uses of open space may include the following:
a.
Conservation of natural, archeological or historical resources;
b.
Meadows, woodlands, wetlands, wildlife corridors, game preserves, or similar conservation-oriented areas;
c.
Walking or bicycle trails, provided they are constructed of pervious paving materials;
d.
Passive recreation areas;
e.
Active recreation areas, provided that they are limited to no more than ten percent of the total open space and are not located within primary conservation areas. Active recreation areas may include impervious surfaces. Active recreation areas in excess of this limit must be located outside of the protected open space;
f.
Agriculture, horticulture, silviculture or pasture uses, provided that all applicable best management practices are used to minimize environmental impacts, and such activities are not conducted within primary conservation areas;
g.
Nonstructural stormwater management practices;
h.
Easements for drainage, access, and underground utility lines; or
i.
Other conservation-oriented uses compatible with the purposes of this article.
(4)
Prohibited uses of open space.
a.
Golf courses;
b.
Roads, parking lots and impervious surfaces, except as specifically authorized in the previous sections;
c.
Agricultural and forestry activities not conducted according to accepted best management practices; and
d.
Other activities as determined by the applicant and recorded on the legal instrument providing for permanent protection.
(5)
Ownership and management of open space.
a.
Ownership of open space. The applicant must identify the owner of the open space who is responsible for maintaining the open space and facilities located thereon. If a homeowners association is the owner, membership in the association shall be mandatory and automatic for all homeowners of the subdivision and their successors. If a homeowners association is the owner, the homeowners' association shall have lien authority to ensure the collection of dues from all members. The responsibility for maintaining the open space and any facilities located thereon shall be borne by the owner.
b.
Management plan. Applicant shall submit a plan for management of open space and common facilities ("plan") that:
1.
Allocates responsibility and guidelines for the maintenance and operation of the open space and any facilities located thereon, including provisions for ongoing maintenance and for long-term capital improvements;
2.
Provides that any changes to the plan be approved by Chamblee City Council; and
3.
Provides for enforcement of the plan.
c.
In the event the party responsible for maintenance of the open space fails to maintain all or any portion in reasonable order and condition, the City may assume responsibility for its maintenance and may enter the premises and take corrective action, including the provision of extended maintenance. The costs of such maintenance may be charged to the owner, homeowner's association, or to the individual property owners that make up the homeowner's association, and may include administrative costs and penalties. Such costs shall become a lien on all subdivision properties.
(6)
Legal instrument for permanent protection.
a.
The open space shall be protected in perpetuity by a binding legal instrument that is recorded with the deed. The instrument shall be one of the following:
1.
A permanent conservation easement in favor of either:
(i)
A land trust or similar conservation-oriented, nonprofit organization with legal authority to accept such easements. The organization shall be bona fide and in perpetual existence and the conveyance instruments shall contain an appropriate provision for retransfer in the event the organization becomes unable to carry out its functions; or
(ii)
A governmental entity with an interest in pursuing goals compatible with the purposes of this article. If the entity accepting the easement is not [the jurisdiction], then a third right of enforcement favoring [the jurisdiction] shall be included in the easement.
2.
A permanent restrictive covenant for conservation purposes in favor of a governmental entity; or
3.
An equivalent legal tool that provides permanent protection, if approved by the City.
b.
The instrument for permanent protection shall include clear restrictions on the use of the open space. These restrictions shall include all restrictions contained in this Article, as well as any further restrictions the applicant chooses to place on the use of the open space.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18; Ord. No. 776 , 12-17-19)
Section 300-15. - Access and right-of-way.
(a)
Access.
(1)
New streets shall be constructed to the roadway construction standards of Section 350-3 of this UDO.
(2)
The number and location of driveways and other vehicle access points shall be governed by Section 350-2 or GDOT, where applicable. Vehicular access easements may be provided from a public street indirectly via easement in any one or more of the following circumstances:
a.
The easement shall be in a location and the access driveway shall have a width and alignment acceptable to the DeKalb County Fire Rescue Department.
b.
The property is a lot of record, as defined herein, but does not meet the minimum frontage requirement of the applicable zoning district. The property must be served by an exclusive access easement which shall be limited to the provision of access to only one principal use or structure.
c.
The access easement serves a single-family residence on a lot which is otherwise a buildable lot of record, and which is sharing a common driveway with no more than one other single-family residence.
d.
The access easement coincides with a private roadway approved under the code, ordinances, or regulations of the City of Chamblee. All new private roadways must be constructed to the roadway standards of this UDO, and their ownership and maintenance responsibility by private party(s) must be clearly established on the final plat of the development.
e.
The access easement serves a buildable lot of record which meets the minimum frontage requirements of Title 2 of this UDO, but at which point the access is not achieved.
(b)
Dedication of Street Right-of-Way. Right-of-way for all project public streets, existing and proposed, shall be dedicated in accordance with the street classifications and specifications of Chapter 350 of this Title 3 and the provision of Section 300-24, Final Plat Procedures. Dedication of right-of-way for all private streets shall be done in accordance with the provisions of Subsection 350-3(b) Private Streets.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17)
Section 300-16. - Utility easements.
(a)
The following easements shall be provided:
(1)
Utility easements. Easements for underground or above ground utilities shall be provided for and centered along rear or side lot lines, and shall be at least ten feet in width. Easements for water lines, sanitary sewers, and storm drains shall be centered on the pipe and at least 20 feet in width. See Subsection 340-39(a)(7).
(2)
Landscape easements. The Mayor and City Council may require landscape easements for certain developments where industrial or commercial uses abut residential uses.
(3)
Sidewalk easements. Easements for sidewalks shall be provided along the exterior and interior streets of the development. Sidewalk specifications and design shall be constructed in compliance with this Title.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17)
Section 300-17. - Design of blocks.
(a)
The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be determined with due regard to:
(1)
The provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs of the type of use contemplated, and adequate public open spaces accessible and visible to residents;
(2)
Zoning requirements and design criteria;
(3)
Needs of non-vehicular and vehicular traffic circulation and the control and safety of such traffic;
(4)
Opportunities and constraints of topography, with convenient access to important physical and topographical features such as lakes and rivers, significant areas of trees and other natural features, and areas of high ground offering scenic views;
(5)
Newly created blocks shall not have block faces less than 200 feet, nor more than 600 feet, as measured from street curb to street curb;
(6)
Streets used to divide properties into blocks shall meet all of the street and sidewalk designations of this UDO;
(7)
Lots zoned for uses other than for single-family residential units shall provide for interparcel access as provided in Subsection 350-2(c).
(b)
Pedestrian access. In blocks over 500 feet long the director shall require alleys, pedestrian ways, or bike paths to be constructed on access easements to provide necessary pedestrian and bicycle access to public gathering spaces, transit stops and to achieve a connected network of pedestrian and bicycle pathways between desirable destinations.
(c)
Nonresidential and mixed-use developments with more than 600 feet of frontage along a single street shall be divided by streets into blocks having a maximum length of 400 feet measured from street curb to street curb.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18)
Section 300-18. - Monumentation.
The Technical Standards for Property Surveys of the State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors shall apply when conducting surveys of subdivision; to determine the accuracy for surveys and placement of monuments, control corners, markers, and property corner ties; to determine the location, design, and material of monuments, markers, control corners, and property corner ties; and to determine other standards and procedures governing the practice of land surveying for subdivisions.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17)
Section 300-19. - Assignment of street names and addresses.
Assignment of names and addresses shall be administered by DeKalb County.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17)
ARTICLE 3. - SUBDIVISION AND SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 803 , amended Art. 3 in its entirety by renumbering existing §§ 300-20—300-27 as §§ 300-23—300-30 and adding new provisions as § 300-20 as herein set out.

Section 300-20. - Street Name Change Procedures.
(a)
Name change initiated by petition. An application requesting a street name change shall be submitted to the planning and development department and contain the following:
(1)
A written petition bearing signatures of a minimum of twenty-five (25) percent of the property owners fronting the street.
(2)
Existing and proposed street names.
(3)
Reason for requesting change.
(4)
Map showing street or portion of street affected by change.
(5)
A filing fee as established by the Department of Planning and Development, if any.
(b)
Name change initiated by City Staff or Mayor and Council. The Department of Planning and Development shall process the proposed name change according to the procedures below. The petition process outlined in Section 300-20(a) is not required for City-initiated changes.
(c)
All name change proposals shall be processed and scheduled for public hearing as follows:
(1)
The proposed name shall be checked by the city to ensure nonduplication.
(2)
Mayor and Council shall consider the name change after conducting one public hearing.
(3)
Legal notice of the application and the date, time, and place of the public hearing shall be published in the official legal organ of the city at least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing.
(4)
The department shall post a sign at approximately one-mile intervals along the length of the roadway for which a name change is proposed and shall give notice by regular mail to the owners (according to tax records) of each property which bears an address on the roadway for which a name change is proposed. The postmaster shall also be notified of the hearings by regular mail.
(5)
The final decision on the proposed change shall be made by the council after having held the scheduled public hearing.
(6)
Petitioners shall bear all costs necessary for street marker changes as determined by the city.
(7)
Procedures for notification to all affected agencies shall follow addressing procedures.
(Ord. No. 803 , 9-21-21)
Sections 300-21, 300-22. - Reserved.
Section 300-23. - Policies and purposes.
(a)
Policies.
(1)
It is declared to be the policy of the City to consider the subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided land as subject to the control of the City pursuant to the City's official Comprehensive Plan in order to promote the orderly, planned, efficient and economical development of the City.
(2)
Land to be subdivided must be of such character that it can be used safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire, flood, or other menace.
(3)
The existing and proposed public improvements must conform to and be properly related to the proposals shown in adopted City plans and maps.
(b)
Purposes. The City's subdivision regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
(1)
To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the City;
(2)
To guide the future growth and development of the City in accordance with the comprehensive plan;
(3)
To protect and conserve the value of land and the economic stability of all communities in the City and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development of the City through appropriate growth management techniques, including consideration of the timing and sequencing of development, consideration of infill development in existing neighborhoods and nonresidential areas with adequate public facilities;
(4)
To guide public policy and both public and private actions in order to provide adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, playgrounds, recreation, and public services and support facilities;
(5)
To provide for the safe and efficient circulation of motorized and non-motorized traffic throughout the City;
(6)
To ensure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both motorized and non-motorized, in new land developments;
(7)
To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for subdivisions and resubdivisions to further the orderly layout and use of land, and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided land;
(8)
To ensure to the extent legally possible that public facilities and services are available concurrent with development and will have a sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision;
(9)
To protect and restore the highest quality of the City's air and water resources, to ensure the adequacy of drainage facilities, to safeguard the water table, and to encourage the wise use and management of natural resources throughout the City in order to preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of the City and the value of the land;
(10)
To preserve the natural beauty, environment, and topography of the City and to ensure appropriate development with regard to these natural features.
(c)
Applicability.
(1)
No person may record any subdivision plat until it has been approved and accepted by the Planning and Development Director, nor may any lot be sold by reference to any subdivision plat whether recorded or not, if the plat is made after the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, unless it has been approved and accepted by the Planning and Development Director. The recording of a plat must be based on an approved plat and may not be recorded solely on the basis of a metes and bounds description.
(2)
No person may record any conservation subdivision plat until it has been reviewed and approved by the Mayor and City Council for compliance with all provisions of Sec. 300-14.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18; Ord. No. 776 , 12-17-19; Ord. No. 803 , 9-21-21)
Section 300-24. - Exemptions from provisions of preliminary plat procedures.
(a)
General requirements. For the purpose of this UDO, the types of activities contained in this Section shall be considered subdivisions, but exempt from the preliminary plat requirements of Article 3 of this Chapter, except as noted. Each such subdivision shall be drawn in accordance with Final Plat standards in Section 300-24 of this UDO and shall be submitted with the appropriate fees to the Planning and Development Department for review and approval. Upon approval, the Planning and Development Director shall authorize the applicant to record the Exemption Plat with the Clerk of Superior Court of DeKalb County and grant the issuance of building permits pursuant to the Codes and Ordinances of the City.
(b)
No conservation subdivision, regardless of the number of lots created, shall be exempt from the preliminary plat procedures.
(c)
Recombinations. The combination or recombination of all of two or more buildable lots of record, where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots or parcels are in compliance with Title 2 of this UDO.
(d)
Minor residential subdivision. The division of a buildable lot of record into five or fewer lots is subject to the following:
(1)
Each proposed lot complies with all requirements of Title 2 of this UDO and is limited to single-family detached residential use.
(2)
The subdivision does not include the installation of any public infrastructure.
(3)
Each proposed lot abuts an existing public street or previously approved private street.
(4)
All project related slope and utility easements as well as necessary street right-of-way as determined by the Department are provided at no cost to the City.
(5)
Platted open space or common areas that are not a part of an individually owned lot are not created.
(6)
The subdivision does not create any unbuildable lots, unless permitted pursuant to Subsection 300-12(e).
(7)
The subdivision receives approval of County Board of Health if occupied structures will be served by on-site septic systems.
(e)
Nonresidential subdivisions. Lots for the purpose of sale within a nonresidential development, provided:
(1)
Each proposed lot complies with applicable requirements of Title 2 of this UDO.
(2)
Does not include the installation of any public infrastructure.
(3)
Each proposed lot abuts upon and has access from an existing public street or previously approved private street.
(4)
All project related slope and utility easements as well as necessary street right-of-way as determined by the Department are provided at no cost to the City.
(5)
Each lot thus created may not be resubdivided pursuant to the provisions of this Subsection. Such resubdivision shall be accomplished only through the procedures contained in Article 3 of this Chapter.
(6)
Each proposed lot shall comply with the requirements of the DeKalb County Watershed Protection Department or the Environmental Health Department, as appropriate, whose certification of approval shall be required prior to approval of the Exemption Plat by the Department.
(7)
A Record Survey certified by a Land Surveyor currently registered in the State of Georgia shall be submitted to and approved by the Department showing the lot.
(f)
Nonresidential project management. Lots may be created for recording within a nonresidential development, provided:
(1)
The nonresidential development is a single multi-phase or multi-use project under the unified control of a single developer, is zoned for such use or development, and a Concept Plan for the entire project has been approved by the Director.
(2)
The proposed subdivision is intended to transfer title for financing or building management purposes and not for the sale of the property for future development, and an affidavit to this fact signed by the owner(s) is submitted with the final plat application.
(3)
The proposed lot has been approved by the Department to be provided permanent vehicular access established by easement or acceptable covenant prior to or concurrently with recording of the Exemption Plat.
(4)
The proposed lot must encompass a principal structure which has been granted a building permit and which is under construction or has been completed.
(5)
The Exemption Plat shall be drawn to include the entirety of the overall development and shall clearly identify those lots to be recorded, those lots previously recorded and the remainder of the development which shall be labeled "not included." All easements, dedications, etc., shall be shown as appropriate or as required. Each lot shall be consistent with the zoning approved for the overall development and the applicable requirements of Title 2 of this UDO.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18; Ord. No. 776 , 12-17-19; Ord. No. 803 , 9-21-21)
Section 300-25. - Subdivision plat application and review process.
(a)
Application and filing procedures.
(1)
All subdivisions as defined in Chapter 110 of this UDO shall adhere to the requirements of this section of the UDO in regards to application and procedure, except as otherwise provided in Section 300-21, above.
(2)
The Mayor and City Council shall adopt from time to time, a schedule of fees for application and approval processing as specified in this chapter.
(3)
Conservation subdivisions are subject to Mayor and Council review as required by Sec. 300-26.
(b)
Applicability. This Section 300-22 is applicable to all subdivisions of land involving any of the following:
(1)
Street dedication;
(2)
Public infrastructure;
(3)
Utility extensions;
(4)
Platted open space or common areas that are not part of an individually owned lot; and
(5)
All other subdivisions not exempt in Section 300-21.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 776 , 12-17-19; Ord. No. 803 , 9-21-21)
Section 300-26. - Preliminary plat procedures.
(a)
Application and plat required. The owner of the land where the proposed development is to occur, or the owner's authorized agent, must file a plat with the Planning and Development Department along with an application for approval. The application must:
(1)
Be made on forms prepared by the Planning and Development Department;
(2)
Be accompanied by a plat prepared by a Georgia licensed civil engineer, surveyor, architect, or landscape architect, as described in these regulations and complying in all respects with these regulations; and
(3)
Be accompanied by an application fee in the amount set by the City Council.
(b)
Plat information. The following information must be shown on the preliminary plat:
(1)
The boundary, as determined by survey, of the area to be subdivided with all bearings and distances shown and the location within the area, or contiguous to it, of any existing streets, railroad lines, watercourses, easements or other significant features of the tract.
(2)
Scale denoted both graphically and numerically with north arrow and declination.
(3)
Complete construction plans, in accordance with the requirements in Section 300-34, as applicable, prepared by a registered engineer and approved by the City and the appropriate state agency.
(4)
The location of proposed streets, alleys, easements, lots, parks or other open spaces, reservations (i.e., school sites), property lines with street dimensions, tentative lot dimensions, lot and block numbers, and the location of any building restriction areas, i.e., flood hazard areas, watershed protection districts, wetlands. Site calculations shall include total acreage of tract, acreage in parks and other nonresidential uses, total number and acreage of parcels, and the total number of housing units.
(5)
The proposed name of the subdivision, street names, the owners name and address, signature of the owner or owner's duly authorized agent, the name of the surveyor, the names of adjoining subdivisions or property owners, the name of the City, county, and state in which the subdivision is located, the date of plat preparation, and the zoning classification of the tract to be subdivided and of adjoining properties.
(6)
Typical cross sections of proposed streets showing rights-of-way, pavement widths, grades, and design engineering data for all corners and curves. Where a proposed street is an extension of an existing street the profile of the street shall include 300 feet of the existing roadway, with a cross section of the existing street. Where a proposed street within the subdivision abuts a tract of land that adjoins the subdivision and where said street may be expected to extend into said adjoining tract of land, the profile shall be extended to include 300 feet of the said adjoining tract.
(7)
The location of any existing or proposed demolition landfills in the site. Such sites shall not be used for building.
(8)
A timetable for estimated project completion for each phase covered by the preliminary plat.
(9)
The following wording must be shown on the preliminary plat:
"This preliminary plat has been submitted to and approved by the City of Chamblee, on this ________ day of ____________ , ____________ ____________ .
By: ____________ ____________ (By Dir.)
Planning and Development Director, City of Chamblee, Georgia"
(10)
Any additional information deemed necessary by the Planning and Development Department to determine compliance with ordinance standards.
(c)
In addition to the above required information, the following additional information may be necessary for unique sites:
(1)
Original contours for the entire area to be subdivided and extending into adjoining property for a distance of 300 feet at all points where street rights-of-way connect to the adjoining property.
(2)
Where a proposed water and sewer system does not contemplate the use of facilities owned and operated by the City or a sanitary district, the proposed facility plans as approved by the appropriate agency, shall be submitted with the preliminary application.
(d)
Application submittal.
(1)
An application will be considered complete and ready for processing only when it fully complies with the requirements of this chapter.
(2)
If the application and preliminary plat are not accepted, the Planning and Development Director must inform the applicant of the deficiencies and request the applicant to resubmit the application and preliminary plat with the additional information.
(e)
Referral of preliminary plat for review.
(1)
Upon official acceptance of the application and the preliminary plat, the Planning and Development Department, Public Works, and any other city or county department the Planning and Development Director determines should be consulted for the particularities of the proposed subdivision, shall review the preliminary plat. As part of its review, each such department and receiving entity must make comments and recommendations regarding any required changes necessary to comply with all applicable regulations. Once the Planning and Development Director has received each department's comments and recommendations, the Planning and Development Director must either notify the applicant that the preliminary plat has been approved or notify the applicant that revisions to the plat are required.
(2)
The Planning and Development Director shall approve the preliminary plat if the application and preliminary plat conform to all requested revisions, the requirements of this UDO and state law and must deny the preliminary plat if the application and preliminary plat do not conform to all requested revisions, and the requirements of this Code or state law.
(3)
If a preliminary plat is not approved within 180 days of the official acceptance of the application, the application and preliminary plat is considered withdrawn without further action by the City.
(f)
Compliance with design and improvement standards and approval criteria.
(1)
Subdivisions are subject to compliance with all applicable land development regulations in Title 3.
(2)
The Planning and Development Director may require the applicant to submit a site plan for any lot to demonstrate that the lot contains adequate buildable area that is suitable for the intended use.
(g)
After review of the preliminary plat and related comments, and where, in the judgment of the Planning and Development Director, the preliminary plat conforms to all of the requirements of this UDO, the preliminary plat shall stand approved.
(h)
Effect of approval. The preliminary plat does not constitute nor provide assurance of approval of the final plat or building or development permits, but is to be used as the development design for the subdivision and for the acquisition of a development permit as provided for in the UDO. The preliminary plat must be submitted to the Planning and Development Department in a digital format acceptable to the City, prior to or simultaneous with an application for a development permit.
(i)
Lapse of approval. The preliminary plat expires 24 months from the date of its approval. If more than 50 percent of linear feet of total road in the entire development shown on the preliminary plat is complete at the expiration of 24 months from the date of the approval of the preliminary plat, then the Planning and Development Director is authorized to grant a one-time, one-year extension of the approval of the preliminary plat. An expired preliminary plat is null and void and is of no effect. An expired preliminary plat may not be renewed.
(j)
Preliminary plat amendments. If the approved preliminary plat is amended or altered by the applicant after approval as a preliminary plat, then the applicant is required to note any discrepancies on the final plat.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18; Ord. No. 803 , 9-21-21)
Section 300-27. - Final plat procedures.
(a)
All subdivisions of land exempted from the Preliminary Plat process in Section 300-21 and all Preliminary Plats shall proceed through the Final Plat process.
(1)
No final plat shall be approved unless and until the subdivider has installed all improvements required by this chapter, or appropriate sureties have been secured pursuant to Section 300-27. The final plat and a fee in the amount established by the City Council must be filed with the City. The final plat and as-built drawings must also be submitted in a digital format acceptable to the City.
(2)
The final plat shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor, licensed to practice in the State of Georgia and shall meet the requirements of the City, the county register of deeds office, the minimum standards and specifications adopted in the rules and regulations of the State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors for plats to be filed and recorded in the office of the clerk of superior court. The final plat shall constitute all portions of the preliminary plat site which the subdivider proposes to record and develop at the time.
(b)
Plat information:
(1)
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67, a caption shall be provided including the following information:
a.
A title or name;
b.
The City, land district and lot, and subdivision, if property lies within a particular subdivision;
c.
The date of plate preparation and the date of the field survey;
d.
The scale, stated and shown graphically;
e.
The name, address, telephone number and registration number of the land surveyor or the statement that he or she is the county surveyor and is not required by law to be a registered surveyor; and
f.
All reproductions of original maps or plats shall bear the signature of the registrant placed across the registration seal in order to be a valid or recordable map or plat. The provisions of this subsection shall apply to all maps or plats that are sealed by a land surveyor which depict and describe real property boundaries. Maps and plats which do not meet the requirements of this subsection shall not be sealed nor recorded by the Clerk of the Superior Court.
(2)
The exact boundary of the tract of land being subdivided showing clearly the disposition of all portions of the tract.
(3)
North arrow and declination.
(4)
A vicinity map showing the location of the subdivision with respect to adjacent streets and properties.
(5)
As built drawings and plans of all water, sewer, and storm drainage system facilities, illustrating their layouts and connections to existing systems. Such plans shall show all easements and rights-of-way, to demonstrate that the facilities are properly placed and the locations of all fire hydrants, blow offs, manholes, pumps, force mains, and gate valves are indicated. This information shall not be placed on the final plat but must be submitted at the time of request for final plat approval or prior to Certificate of Occupancy/Completion.
(6)
Sufficient data to determine readily and reproduce accurately on the ground the location, bearing, and length of every street, alley line, lot line, building line, easement line, and setback line. All dimensions shall be measured to the nearest one-hundredth of a foot and all angles to the nearest second.
(7)
The lines and names of all streets, alley lines, lot lines, lot and block numbers, lot addresses, building setback lines, easements, reservations, common areas, open space, on-site demolition landfills and other areas dedicated to public purpose with notes stating their purposes. All lots subject to flooding shall be noted.
(8)
Compliance with the tree preservation ordinance of the City, Chapter 320 of this UDO.
(9)
The accurate locations and descriptions of all monuments, markers and control points.
(10)
The deed restrictions or any other similar covenants proposed for the subdivision, if any.
(11)
The subdivision, the name of the owner, the name, registration number, and seal of the registered surveyor under whose supervision the plat was prepared, and the date of the plat.
(12)
Private street easements and maintenance agreements required in Subsection 350-3(b), if applicable and payment in lieu of underground utilities improvements (Section 350-25) (if applicable).
(13)
In addition to all certification required by the county the following certification must also appear on the final plat:
Certificate of Approval for Recording. I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to comply with the Subdivision Regulations for Chamblee, Georgia, and that this plat has been approved by the Chamblee Planning and Development Director for recording in the office of the register of deeds of DeKalb County.
____________
Date
________________
Planning and Development Director, Chamblee, Georgia
(c)
Application submittal.
(1)
An application will be considered complete and ready for processing only when it fully complies with the requirements of this chapter.
(2)
If the application and final plat are not accepted, the Planning and Development Director must inform the applicant of the deficiencies and request the applicant to resubmit the application and final plat with the additional information.
(3)
Material specifications. The final plat shall meet all provisions of the Georgia Plat Act, O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67.
(4)
Compliance with UDO. The final plat must comply with the requirements of the City UDO and all conditions of zoning for the subject property. If the final plat is inconsistent with any portion of the preliminary plat, the applicant is required to note any discrepancies on the final plat.
(d)
Referral of final plat for review.
(1)
Upon official acceptance of the application and the final plat, the Planning and Development Department, Public Works, and any other city or county department the Planning and Development Director determines should be consulted for the particularities of the proposed subdivision, shall review the preliminary plat. As part of its review, each such department and receiving entity must make comments and recommendations regarding any required changes necessary to comply with all applicable regulations.
(2)
Once the Planning and Development Director has received each department's comments and recommendations, the Planning and Development Director must either notify the applicant that the final plat has been approved or notify the applicant that revisions to the plat are required.
(3)
If a final plat is not approved within 180 days of the official acceptance of the application, the application and final plat is considered withdrawn without further action by the City. The Planning and Development Director must approve the final plat if the application and final plat conform to all requested revisions, the requirements of this Code and state law and must deny the final plat if the application and final plat do not conform to all requested revisions, the requirements of this Code or state law.
(e)
Recording the final plat.
(1)
The approved final plat must be recorded with the Clerk of the County Superior Court by the applicant and returned to the Planning and Development Director.
(2)
The filing and recording of the final plat will, upon completion of the improvements by the applicant and compliance with all procedures of this chapter, be deemed an acceptance of the dedication of the streets and other public land as shown upon the plat on behalf of the public.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18; Ord. No. 803 , 9-21-21)
Section 300-28. - Revised final plat.
When it becomes necessary to revise an original recorded final plat due to some error, required adjustment or desired adjustment, the applicant must confer with the Planning and Development Director to determine what steps are necessary to revise the final plat. When determined to be minor, some requirements may be determined to be unnecessary based on the applicability of the ordinance.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18; Ord. No. 803 , 9-21-21)
Section 300-29. - Mayor and City Council approval of conservation subdivision.
(a)
The preliminary plat shall be submitted to Mayor and City Council as required by established deadlines and on applications as provided by the Planning and Development Director. The Mayor and City Council shall approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove the preliminary plat within 60 days of its first consideration of the preliminary plat.
(b)
If disapproved, the reasons for disapproval shall be provided to the subdivider in writing. Resubmission of the revised application shall follow the requirements of this section.
(c)
Any conditions placed by the mayor and city council on the approval of the preliminary plat shall be addressed by the subdivider within 60 days, after which time the director shall have 30 days to review the proposed preliminary plat to determine whether it has addressed the required conditions of approval. Failure of the subdivider to meet the 60-day response period or to make required changes shall cause the conditional approval of the Mayor and City Council to be null and void.
(d)
Only after receiving preliminary plat approval and written approval from the appropriate regulating agencies, shall the subdivider submit an application for a land disturbance permit for the development.
( Ord. No. 776 , 12-17-19; Ord. No. 803 , 9-21-21)
Section 300-30. - Guarantees and sureties.
(a)
Before plat recordation, land disturbance permit, building permit, or other project close-out, the Planning and Development Director shall certify that the developer/subdivider has obtained the necessary bonds, other sureties, and/or agreements that ensure completion of all required public and private improvements on the subject property. Three types of guarantees and sureties may be provided for as a part of the final plat approval and development permitting process:
(1)
Performance guarantees.
(2)
Maintenance guarantees.
(3)
Maintenance agreements/inspections.
(b)
Performance Guarantees. Performance guarantees shall be allowed for required site improvements (public or private) not yet completed. In lieu of requiring the completion, installation, and dedication of any and all improvements (e.g., water, sewer, street lights, landscaping, sidewalks, etc.) prior to approval of a final plat or certificate of occupancy/completion(CC/CO), the City may enter into a written agreement with the developer or subdivider whereby the developer or subdivider shall agree to complete all required improvements prior to the release of the performance guarantee.
(1)
The performance guarantee shall be payable to the City and shall be in an amount equal to 1.5 timesthe entire cost, as estimated by the developer or subdivider and verified by the City, of installing all outstanding required improvements.
(2)
The duration of the guarantee shall be for no longer than twelve (12) months, or until such lesser time that the improvements are accepted by the City. Guarantee funds are forfeited if the improvements arenot completed and accepted within 12 months.
(3)
In addition, a performance bond in accordance with the bonding requirements of this section and the terms of Sustainable Certification in Section 230-9 shall be submitted for all applicable developments.
(c)
Maintenance Guarantees. Maintenance guarantees shall be provided for all improvements to be publicly dedicated and/or maintained (e.g.; streets, sidewalks, landscaping) to guarantee the quality and ongoing performance of the installations. Prior to approval of a final plat or final certificate of occupancy/completion (CC/CO), the City may enter into a written agreement with the developer or subdivider whereby the developer or subdivider shall agree to maintain in good repair and living condition all applicable improvements prior to the release of the maintenance guarantee.
(1)
The maintenance guarantee shall be payable to the City and shall be in an amount equal to 60 percentof the construction value for all public improvements, as estimated by the developer or subdivider andverified by the City.
(2)
The duration of the surety shall be for a period of 24 months following the date of approval of development conformance, marked by the approval of a final plat or final certificate of occupancy/completion (CC/CO).
(d)
Maintenance Guarantees (stormwater). Stormwater maintenance guarantees shall be provided for the ongoing maintenance of stormwater management facilities and features. Prior to approval of a final plat or final certificate of occupancy/completion (CC/CO), the City may enter into a written agreement with the developer or subdivider whereby the developer or subdivider shall agree to maintain in good repair and working order all applicable improvements prior to the release of the maintenance guarantee.
(1)
The stormwater maintenance guarantee shall be payable to the City and shall be in an amount equal to $5.00/cubic foot of storage provided by the stormwater management facility, as estimated by thedeveloper or subdivider and verified by the City.
(2)
The duration of the surety shall be for a period of 24 months following the date of approval of development conformance, marked by the approval of a final plat or final certificate of occupancy/completion (CC/CO).
(3)
The guarantee shall be accompanied by the appropriate agreements outlined in Section 300-27(e).
(e)
Maintenance Agreements/Inspections (stormwater). Prior to the issuance of any project close-out, final plat, or certificate of completion/occupancy requiring a stormwater management facility or practice hereunder and for which the City requires ongoing maintenance, the applicant or owner of the site must, unless an on-site stormwater management facility or practice is dedicated to and accepted by the City, execute an inspection and maintenance agreement, and/or a conservation easement, if applicable, that shall be binding on all subsequent owners of the site.
(1)
The inspection and maintenance agreement, if applicable, must be approved by the City prior to approval, and recorded in the deed records of the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of DeKalb County, Georgia. The inspection and maintenance agreement shall identify, by name or official title, the person(s) responsible for carrying out the inspection and maintenance.
(2)
Unless the City accepts ownership or an easement as provided for by the City Code, responsibility for the operation and maintenance of a stormwater management facility or practice shall remain with the property owner and shall pass to any successor owner. If portions of the land are sold or otherwise transferred, legally binding arrangements shall be made to pass the inspection and maintenance responsibility to the appropriate successors in title. These arrangements shall designate for each portion of the site, the person to be permanently responsible for its inspection and maintenance.
(3)
As part of the inspection and maintenance agreement, a schedule shall be developed for when and how often routine inspection and maintenance will occur to ensure proper function of the stormwatermanagement facility or practice, including their associated landscaping measures. The agreement shall also include plans for annual inspections to ensure proper performance of the facility between scheduled maintenance and shall also include remedies for the default thereof.
(4)
In addition to enforcing the terms of the inspection and maintenance agreement, the City may also enforce all of the provisions for ongoing inspection and maintenance in Title 3.
(5)
The City, in lieu of an inspection and maintenance agreement, may accept dedication of any existing or future stormwater management facility for maintenance, provided such facility meets all the requirements of this Ordinance and includes adequate and perpetual access and sufficient area, by easement or otherwise, for inspection and regular maintenance.
(f)
As-built drawings (stormwater). The developer shall submit as-built drawings and plans of all water, sewer, and storm drainage system facilities, illustrating their layouts and connections to existing systems. Such plans shall show all easements and rights-of-way to demonstrate that the facilities are properly placed and the locations of all fire hydrants, blow offs, manholes, pumps, force mains, and gate valves are indicated. This information shall not be placed on the final plat but must be submitted at the time of request for final plat approval, prior to the issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy/Completion, or prior to project close-out (for stand-alone land development projects), whichever comes last.
(g)
Guarantee Specifications. The developer or subdivider shall provide either one, or a combination, of the following guarantees in the amounts and durations specified in this division. Any expenses associated with the cost verification by the City shall be paid entirely by the applicant.
(1)
Bond. Bond(s) shall be secured from a surety bonding company authorized to do business in the state. The bond shall be payable to the City.
(2)
Cash or equivalent security. The developer or subdivider shall deposit cash, an irrevocable letter of credit, or other instrument readily convertible into cash at face value, either with the City or in escrowwith a financial institution designated as an official depository of the City.
(3)
If cash or other instrument is deposited in escrow with a financial institution as provided above, then the applicant shall file with the City of Chamblee an agreement between the financial institution andthe applicant guaranteeing the following:
a.
That said escrow amount will be held in trust until released by the Planning and Development Director, and may not be used or pledged by the applicant in any other transaction during the term of the escrow; and
b.
That in case of a failure on the part of the developer or subdivider to complete said improvements/maintenance, the financial institution shall, upon notification of the City to the financial institution of an estimate of the amount needed to complete the improvements, immediately pay to the City the funds estimated to complete the improvements, up to the full balance of the escrow account, or deliver to the City any other instruments fully endorsed or otherwise made payable in full to the City.
(h)
Default. Upon default, meaning failure on the part of the applicant to complete the required improvements in the time allowed by this UDO or as spelled out in the performance or maintenance bond or escrow agreement, then the surety, or financial institution holding the escrow account, shall, if requested by the City, pay all or any portion of the bond or escrow fund to the City up to the amount needed to complete the improvements or maintenance based on an estimate by the City. Notification may take place following abandonment of the project for more than 90 continuous days. Upon payment, the City, in its discretion, may expend such portion of said funds as it deems necessary to complete all or any portion of the required improvements. The City shall return to the applicant any funds not spent in completing the improvements.
(i)
Release of Guarantee Security. The City may release a portion of any security posted as the improvements are completed or maintenance period completed and approved by the Planning and Development Director. When the Planning and Development Director approves said improvements, Planning and Development Director shall inspect the premises, and if work is found to be completed and satisfactory in accordance with ordinance regulations and approved plans, the Planning and Development Director shall release the portion of the security posted which covers the approved cost of the improvements and maintenance of satisfactorily completed workthat was subject to the security. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to petition the City for release of guarantees and sureties and to warrant that all improvements subject to the guarantee or surety have been completed to fulfill the requirements of this ordinance.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18; Ord. No. 803 , 9-21-21; Ord. No. 805 , 12-21-21)
Sections 300-31—300-33. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 4. - CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND INSPECTIONS

Section 300-34. - Applicability.
The requirements of this Article shall apply to permits described in Article 5 below.
(1)
Application Requirements.
a.
Applications for permits described in Article 5 below shall be accompanied by the appropriate fees, and the required number of site construction plans and related documentation, including but not limited to the following:
1.
A boundary survey showing current topography, state waters, structures, easements and other existing conditions prior to proposed development.
2.
Landscaping, Buffer and Tree Protection Plan - Section 300-35.
3.
Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control Plan - Section 300-36.
4.
Stormwater Management Plan - Subsection 340-38(c).
5.
Grading Plan - Section 300-37.
6.
Storm Drainage Profile Drawing - Section 300-38.
7.
Street Plan/Profile Sheets - Section 300-39.
8.
Construction Parking Plan showing the location of and access to parking for workers during construction.
b.
All site construction drawings and other engineering data, except for the landscaping, buffer, and tree protection plan and shall be prepared, signed and sealed by a professional engineer currently registered in the State of Georgia.
c.
Multi-phase developments may submit construction plans in phases.
d.
After receiving an application for approval of site construction plans, the Planning and Development Director or his/her designee shall confirm that the application is complete. If the application is determined to be incomplete or insufficient, the Planning and Development Director shall notify the applicant in writing and shall require that missing components be resubmitted prior to further review.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18)
Section 300-35. - Landscaping, buffer and tree protection plans.
(a)
All projects which require a Land Disturbance Permit must comply with the Unified Development Ordinance and the tree preservation and replacement regulations in Chapter 320, Article 4. Some projects may be subject to additional landscape requirements defined by the UDO, stipulated as a condition of rezoning, or established as a matter of policy in this document. Required landscape plans for these situations shall include the following:
(1)
All information required by the tree preservation and replacement regulations in Chapter 320, Article 4 and tree preservation administrative guidelines;
(2)
Landscape plans shall be prepared by and signed and sealed by a registered landscape architect;
(3)
The plans shall show background information on existing and proposed contours, existing trees to remain and those to be removed, proposed trees and other vegetation, proposed utilities, proposed temporary and permanent drainage features, proposed drives and other permanent structures to be demolished, etc., in the appropriate line weight and line type so that the plans can be read and understood as a representation of water flow, vegetation, silt fence, and other features as they ought to be working together to prevent excess land disturbance and runoff, erosion, siltation, and damage to trees to remain;
(4)
Planting details for each type of plant;
(5)
A delineation and designation of any required landscaped or undisturbed buffers;
(6)
A detail plant list indicating the size, type, and spacing, of and other requirements for all trees, and shrubs and ground covers; and
(7)
Every effort should be made to landscape so as to minimize all maintenance required and minimize fertilizer water, plant food, and herbicide applications. Natural vegetation indigenous to the City of Chamblee should be promoted where appropriate; exotic invasive vegetation should shall not be used.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18)
Section 300-36. - Erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan.
The erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan shall follow the version of the NPDES Erosion, Sedimentation, and Pollution Control Plan Checklist as required by the Environmental Protection Division (EPD).
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17)
Section 300-37. - Grading plan.
When required, grading plans shall include:
(1)
All information required under Subsection 300-24(b) (unless included elsewhere in the plans);
(2)
Topographic layout proposed grading of the development must be at two-foot (maximum) contour intervals based on mean sea level datum;
(3)
Site grading plans superimposed over existing drainage structures. Drainage area that contributes to each existing structure shall be specified or shown;
(4)
Location, and construction details, and design criteria of accessory structures (headwalls, drainage ditches, catch basins, junction boxes, drop inlets, retention areas, and retention outlet controls) shall be provided on plan and/or detail sheet;
(5)
Maximum cross-slope on sidewalks is three percent, on other pavement, six percent;
(6)
Northern and eastern coordinates shall be shown for all stormwater and sanitary sewer appurtenances;
(7)
Bicycle and/or pedestrian-safe grates specified as appropriate for all drain inlets;
(8)
Top and bottom elevations indicated for all walls, steps and ramps;
(9)
Drainage at intersections indicated by flow arrows on plan;
(10)
The 100-year floodplain limits and elevations, or note absence (specify latest floodplain map and panel);
(11)
Structural detail and dimension of the detention pond including section through detention pond, dam or wall;
(12)
All retaining walls over four feet in height must be certified by a structural engineer licensed in the State of Georgia;
(13)
Ingress/egress easement from a public street to stormwater detention structure and maintenance easement to include the surface area ten feet outside the area inundated by the 100-year storm event. The ingress/egress easement shall be a minimum of 20 feet wide with a grade of 20 percent or less;
(14)
Detail of outlet control structure;
(15)
Show limits of actual grading (plus ten-foot grading buffer at the bottom of proposed slopes) outside of the root protection zone for all trees to remain;
(16)
Establish easements for dedication of all stormwater drainage features directing concentrated flows across property lines as directed by the City;
(17)
All development must satisfy the requirements of this UDO concerning potential flood areas;
(18)
Show or indicate whether the site is part of and in compliance with a master/parent stormwater management plan;
(19)
Water quality BMPs as recommended in the 2016 edition of the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, Volumes 1, 2 and 3. For any project that requires a land disturbance permit the project shall consider water quality. The following BMPs may be used:
a.
Wet ponds (extended detention for less than 20 acres)—ED-micro pool;
b.
Extended dry detention ponds;
c.
Wetland-constructed;
d.
Infiltration trenches;
e.
Dry swales;
f.
Sand filter;
g.
Bio-retention;
h.
Vegetated filtration systems; and
i.
Any other best management practice approved by the City Engineer.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18)
Section 300-38. - Storm drainage profile drawing.
When required, storm drainage profile drawings shall include:
(1)
All information required under Subsection 300-24(b) (unless included elsewhere in the plans);
(2)
Storm drainage profiles must be prepared to a scale no smaller than one inch = 100 feet horizontal × one inch = ten feet vertical;
(3)
Each profile should be labeled consistent with the labeling scheme used on the drainage plan view;
(4)
No main line storm pipe shall be less than 15 inches diameter; (roof laterals and landscape drainage are exempted from this requirement);
(5)
No pipe shall have a slope greater than 12 percent;
(6)
If a drop in a structure is greater than five feet, a reinforced base shall be provided for that structure;
(7)
The 25-year hydraulic grade line shall be shown for all storm pipes. The 100-year HGL shall be shown for all pipes within road rights-of-way;
(8)
No corrugated metal pipe shall be used in any road right-of-way;
(9)
All utility crossings shall be shown on storm profiles;
(10)
All structures shall be labeled as to type and function using standard county or GDOT call outs;
(11)
No outfall pipe shall have a slope greater than one percent. Maximum allowable velocity for storm sewer exit pipe is ten feet per second when flowing full or half-full based on Manning's Formula. Energy dissipater is required for exit velocity in excess of five feet per second;
(12)
Rip-rap and/or concrete aprons other acceptable aprons shall be shown for all outfalls;
(13)
A pipe chart representing all sizing and capacity calculations, including but not limited to, pipe size, capacity, drainage area, velocity, and pipe material, shall be included;
(14)
The profile must show the existing and proposed elevations along the length of the drainage system;
(15)
Open channel design must show the grade of the flow line of the channel and include a typical ditch section that provides a non-erodible velocity at design flows. Channel slopes less than one percent may be grassed; for channel shapes greater than one but less than three percent the designer must demonstrate calculated velocity at or less than five feet per second including a channel lining for design to accommodate the design philosophy; channel slopes over three percent must be approved by the City;
(16)
Channel lining (i.e., grass, concrete, etc.) must be specified along the profile;
(17)
Pipe material and bedding shall be specified;
(18)
Crown elevations must be matched at each junction structure or the upstream crown must be higher than the downstream crown; and
(19)
Shall be compliant with the requirements of Chapter 340, Article 4, Post-Development Stormwater Management.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18; Ord. No. 805 , 12-21-21)
Section 300-39. - Street plan and profile sheets.
(a)
Plan and profile sheets shall be provided for all streets.
(1)
All traffic control devices, signs, signals and markings (striping) to be used shall conform to the requirements of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways (MUTCD), latest edition.
(2)
A state department of transportation (GDOT) permit may be required on state-maintained routes. Provide a copy of the GDOT approved plan or a letter stating that the permit is not required on all state routes.
(b)
The street plan/profile sheets shall contain at a minimum:
(1)
All information required in Subsection 300-24(b) (unless included elsewhere in the plans);
(2)
Provide plans and profiles for proposed streets including intersections (scale to be one inch = 50 feet or 100 feet horizontal and one inch = ten feet vertical);
(3)
Show and state percent grade of streets and length of vertical curves;
(4)
Profiles shall show all utility crossings;
(5)
Label all tangents, PIs, PCs, vertical and horizontal curves, K values, curve lengths, stations and chord bearings;
(6)
Minimum K value is ten;
(7)
No road shall have a grade greater than 14 percent for longer than 1,000 feet;
(8)
No road shall have a grade greater than 15 percent;
(9)
All intersections shall have a 50-foot vertical tangent approach at a maximum slope of 2.00 percent;
(10)
All intersections shall have a 50-foot horizontal tangent;
(11)
Vertical and horizontal sight distance shall be shown graphically at all major intersections in accordance with GDOT regulations;
(12)
Minimum stopping sight distance requirements must be satisfied at all vertical curves;
(13)
Proposed vertical curves must be adequate for grades shown;
(14)
Show curve data necessary to reproduce street centerline;
(15)
Provide typical roadway cross section and pavement specifications;
(16)
Provide typical cul-de-sac detail which includes right-of-way and pavement radius. All cul-de-sac dimensions shall match current City standards;
(17)
Provide sidewalks and planting strips as required by the City zoning ordinance, latest revision. Show on plans and include detail;
(18)
Provide handicap ramps at all intersections, driveways, and curb encroachment locations. Show on plans and include detail;
(19)
Show and state all names and right-of-way (existing and proposed) sizes from centerline and pavement widths of all roads, which appear on plans;
(20)
Provide right-of-way miter with ten-foot legs at all intersections within subdivision. A 20-foot miter is required at major street intersections;
(21)
Developments with roadways requiring decel lanes or one additional lane widening shall require 1:20 scale construction plans for the intersection approaches;
(22)
Dimension improvements (in feet) from street centerline to back of curb;
(23)
Indicate tapers beyond projected property lines or end of decel, as appropriate;
(24)
Tapers are not to be curbed (transition curbing down unless tying to existing curb);
(25)
Show all existing and proposed grades and slopes at maximum two-foot contour intervals;
(26)
Provide appropriate spot elevations;
(27)
Clearly indicate curb type to be used and indicate transition locations. Show on plan and include detail;
(28)
All markings to be thermoplastic;
(29)
Depending upon the complexity and size of the development, separate roadway signing, marking and traffic signal plans may be required;
(30)
All traffic signal plans must be submitted to and approved by the DeKalb County DOT or GDOT if it is a state highway.
(c)
For driveways, the following information shall be shown:
(1)
Show proper widths of all driveways;
(2)
State driveway radius;
(3)
Provide spot elevations from edge of pavement along centerline of proposed drive(s);
(4)
Provide driveway/intersection profiles;
(5)
On one-way drives, show one-way arrows and provide details; and
(6)
Show all streets and non-single-family driveways near the proposed access on both sides of the road.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18)
Section 300-40. - Initiation of development activities.
(a)
Initial Activities Required. Following the issuance of any permit authorizing clearing and grading of a site:
(1)
The Planning and Development Department shall schedule a pre-construction conference. The applicant shall contact the Department at least 72 hours prior to initiating land disturbance activities.
(2)
Required erosion control measures, including soil sedimentation facilities must be installed where practical by the developer, operational, inspected and approved by the Department prior to actual grading or removal of vegetation (see Chapter 310, Article 1). All control measures shall be in place as soon after the commencement of activities as possible and in coordination with the progress of the project.
(3)
Areas required to be undisturbed by this UDO, conditions of zoning approval or other ordinance or regulation shall be designated by survey stakes, flags, or other appropriate markings and shall be inspected and approved by the Planning and Development Department prior to the commencement of any clearing or grading activities.
(b)
Tree Protection Areas. Prior to the initiation of land disturbance activities and throughout the clearing and grading process the following must be accomplished for a designated tree protection area in accordance with any approved Buffer and Landscape Plan or Tree Preservation/Replacement Plan for the property, as set forth in Chapter 320 of this UDO:
(1)
For those trees which are not to be removed, all protective fencing, staking, and any tree protection area signs shall be in place. These barriers must be maintained throughout the land disturbance process and shall not be removed until landscaping is begun.
(2)
The tree protection areas shall not be utilized for storage of earth, construction materials, or other materials resulting from or used during the development process.
(3)
Construction site activities such as parking, materials storage, concrete washout, burning, etc., shall be arranged to prevent disturbances within the tree protection areas.
(c)
Stabilization for Erosion Control. If for any reason a Land Disturbance Permit expires after land disturbance activities have commenced, the developer shall be responsible for stabilizing the site for erosion control, under the direction of the Planning and Development Director.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 757 , adopted Dec. 18, 2018, deleted § 300-40 entitled "Effect of construction plan approval," which derived from Ord. No. 743 , adopted Dec. 19, 2017; and said ordinance further amended the Code by renumbering §§ 300-41—300-43 as §§ 300-40—300-42 as herein set out.
Section 300-41. - Development inspections.
(a)
Development inspections. Oral notification shall be made by the developer or contractor to the Development Inspections Section of the Department at least 24 hours prior to commencement of activity for each of the following phases as authorized by any development permit. Inspections shall be made by the Department and passed prior to continuation of further activity or proceeding into new phases.
(1)
Clearing or clearing and grubbing of the site or any portion included under the permit.
(2)
Grading and initial installation of stormwater infrastructure, detention, or other stormwater facilities.
(3)
Installation of sanitary sewer and water main extensions. This notification will be made by the approved utility contractor after obtaining a utility construction permit DeKalb County in a manner determined by DeKalb County.
(4)
Curbing of roadways. Inspection should be requested before the forms have been set (if used). Roadway width will be spot checked by string line between curb stakes.
(5)
Sub-base or subgrade of streets. After compaction, the subgrade will be string-lined for depth and crown. The subgrade shall be roll tested and shall pass with no movement, to the satisfaction of the Planning and Development Department.
(6)
Street base. The base will be string-lined for depth and crown, and shall pass a roll test with no movement to the satisfaction of the Planning and Development Department.
(7)
Paving. A Planning and Development Department inspector shall be on-site during the paving process to check consistency, depth, and workmanship, as applicable. For asphalt paving, the temperature of the material will be spot-checked, and the roadways will be cored after completion to check thickness.
(8)
Stream Buffers. If applicable, see Section 310-18.
(9)
Any other inspections determined necessary by the Director.
(b)
Responsibility for quality and design. The completion of inspections by authorized officials or employees and authorization for work continuation shall not transfer responsibility for the quality of the work performed or materials used from the contractor or developer, nor imply or transfer acceptance of responsibility for project design or engineering from the professional corporation or individual under whose hand or supervision the plans were prepared.
(c)
Final Inspections. Final inspections are required to verify compliance with all approved plans and conditions by all personnel related to landscaping and engineering and planning requirements. All requirements shall be addressed prior to obtaining project closeout or Certificates of Occupancy.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18)
Section 300-42. - Stop Work Orders.
(a)
The Planning and Development Director is authorized to issue a Stop Work Order when a violation of a permit occurs, see Section 310-24, Violations, Enforcement and Penalties. Unless more time is needed for corrective action to prevent imminent public danger or property damage, if the violation has not ceased within 30 minutes of the issuance of the Stop Work Order, the Planning and Development Director shall take any or all of the following actions:
(1)
Immediately revoke the permit.
(2)
Issue a citation subject to enforcement by the municipal court.
(3)
Institute a civil action for injunctive relief.
(4)
Take other enforcement steps authorized in this UDO.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18)
Sections 300-43, 300-44. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 5. - DEVELOPMENT PERMITS

Section 300-45. - Land Disturbance Permits.
(a)
A major Land Disturbance Permit is required for all land-disturbing activities in the City not otherwise exempted by this Title.
(b)
Land disturbance associated with a building permit shall require a separate land disturbance permit. Construction associated with single-family detached residential development, not part of a larger, multi-parcel development, shall not require a separate Land Disturbance Permit.
(c)
Major Land Disturbance Permits shall meet the application requirements for construction plans located in Article 4 and any other requirements contained on applications and forms provided by the Planning and Development Department.
(d)
A minor Land Disturbance Permit may be required in lieu of a full Land Disturbance Permit for all land-disturbing activities under 5,000 square feet.
(e)
The Planning and Development Director may waive Land Disturbance Permit requirements for land-disturbing activities under 500 square feet.
(f)
Land Disturbance Permits shall meet requirements contained on applications and forms provided by the Planning and Development Department.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18)
Sections 300-46—300-48. - Reserved.
Section 300-49. - Driveway permits.
A permit shall be required from the Department of Public Works prior to creating curb cuts or installing a driveway connecting a property to a public roadway. The permit shall assure that access management, erosion control, stormwater regulations and other development regulations of this Title 3 are met. Depending on the roadway, additional driveway permits will be required by the Georgia Department of Transportation and or the DeKalb County Department of Transportation. See Section 350-2 for driveway design standards.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18)
Section 300-50. - Moving and demolition of buildings.
(a)
Moving of Buildings.
(1)
No dwelling unit or other permanent structure shall be relocated within the City unless, when relocated, it meets all requirements of this zoning ordinance and other City Code requirements, and prior to the transportation of the structure, the relocation has been approved by moving permit issued by the City.
(2)
Where application for a permit to move a structure or a portion thereof has been filed and the requisite moving permit fee paid, where written agreement regarding cleanup of the site has been signed and where all other applicable ordinances of the City have been complied with and all other permit fees paid, the Planning and Development Director shall be authorized to issue a moving permit to the applicant.
(3)
A permit to move a structure or any portion thereof, except for those described in Subsection 300-50(a)(4) below, from inside the City to a point inside or outside the City shall not be issued until the applicant has posted performance surety in the amount of $5,000.00 with the Planning and Development Department. The performance surety may be in the form of cash deposited with the City, or a bond, irrevocable letter of escrow or letter of credit from a bank or other financial institution in a form acceptable to the Planning and Development Director. The performance surety shall be released to the applicant after the structure has been moved, and any damages to City property caused by the move have been repaired by the applicant. In the event the permit holder should fail to comply with these requirements, all or any portion of the performance surety shall be applied by the City to the cost of the City performing the work to the premises or location from where the structure was moved or performing the repairs to City property damaged as a result of the move. In the application for the moving permit, the applicant shall grant in writing unto the City, its agents or employees, the right to enter upon the premises to perform the work.
(4)
Any individual, firm or corporation transporting any house, dwelling, apartment or other structure formerly used for human habitation, or any commercial building or other structure formerly occupied in the conduct of any trade or business across or along the public roads or highways of the County, shall be required to furnish proof that it has, in effect, public liability insurance in the amount of at least $500,000.00 combined single limit; to protect the property and persons who may be damaged as a result of the moving of the structure.
(5)
The application for a moving permit shall include information as to the route, date, and time of the move which shall be subject to the approval of the Planning and Development Director.
(6)
The mover shall, in writing, indemnify the City and hold the City harmless from any and all damages which the City may suffer and from any and all liability claims including interest thereon, demands, attorney's fees, and costs of defense, or judgment against it, arising from damages caused by the move of the structure.
(7)
During the move, all structures shall be provided with an escort by a City law enforcement officer at the mover's expense.
(8)
For moving a structure or any portion of a structure for which a moving permit has been issued, the mover shall provide at least two calendar days' notice to the Police Department prior to the date of moving.
(b)
Demolition of Buildings.
(1)
Whenever any person desires to demolish any house, dwelling, apartment or other similar structure formerly used for human habitation or any commercial, industrial or other structure formerly used in the conduct of any trade or business, he or she shall, before being entitled to the issuance of a demolition permit, agree in writing that he or she shall, following the demolition of the structure, take all necessary action, including that specified in this Section 300-50, to ensure that the premises or location where the structure is demolished shall be left in a sanitary condition and free from all trash, debris and structures which might become a harboring place for insects, rodents or vermin.
(2)
The applicant shall also be responsible for proper removal of all hazardous material in compliance with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations contained in 40 CFR 61, Subparts A and M and 29 CFR 1910 and 1926. The applicant shall further be responsible for the proper disposal of solid waste containing asbestos in accordance with the "Georgia Asbestos Safety Act" and the "Georgia Air Quality Act of 1978."
(3)
A temporary fence may be erected to keep out trespassers during demolition and cleanup.
(4)
A permit or bond shall not be required for the demolition of barns, sheds or other accessory buildings where the structure was not used for human habitation or any commercial, industrial, trade or business purpose, or any building not having gas, water, electricity and other utilities connected.
(5)
It shall be unlawful to demolish any house, dwelling or other similar structure formerly used for human habitation or any commercial, industrial or other structure formerly used in the conduct of any trade or business without a permit.
(c)
Duty to Restore Premises to Safe and Sanitary Condition. After the removal of the structure as set forth in Subsection 300-50(b), the owner of the location or premises on which the structure was located shall be required to take necessary action to ensure that such location or premises shall be left in a safe and sanitary condition and shall be specifically required to do the following:
(1)
Remove all trash, debris, garbage and other similar material.
(2)
Fill all holes and depressions caused by the removal of any part of the structure, or caused as a result of compliance with this Section 300-50, which might become a harboring place for insects, rodents or vermin.
(3)
Tear down and remove all underpinnings, pilasters, steps, plumbing connections and fixtures above ground level.
(4)
Seal, close-off, and make gastight and watertight all water, gas and sewer lines.
(5)
Fill or cover all wells with a concrete cap.
(6)
Remove any temporary fencing installed to keep out trespassers during demolition and cleanup.
(d)
Time Limits for Premises Restoration; Failure to Restore Premises. All persons to whom this Section is applicable shall comply with the provisions of this Section within 30 calendar days following the date of the removal of any structure specified in this Section.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18)
Section 300-51. - Model home permits.
(a)
Up to four model homes may be permitted for construction and issued prior to the approval of a final plat.
(b)
The building permit shall not be issued until the roads are paved (base course installed).
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17; Ord. No. 757 , 12-18-18)
Sections 300-52—300-59. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 6. - APPEALS

Section 300-60. - Appeals of administrative decisions.
Appeals of Title 3 shall be made pursuant to the process outlined in Chapter 280, Article 6.
(Ord. No. 743 , 12-19-17)
ARTICLE 7. - TERMS OF EXPIRATION

Section 300-61. - Duration of Plan Validity/Expiration.
(a)
In the event the building or site development plans are denied because revisions are required, the applicant may submit revised plans. If the applicant fails to submit revisions within 180 days of filing the completed application, the application and site plans shall be deemed withdrawn. If revised plans are not approved within 180 days of filing the completed application, the plan(s) shall be deemed withdrawn. The plans will not expire within 180 days if the inactivity is a result of a pending review from an external agency outside the City or applicant's control.
(b)
In the event that a permit has not been issued for approved plans, building and development plans shall expire within 180 days of notice of plan approval.
(Ord. No. 805 , 12-21-21)
Section 300-62. - Duration of Permit Validity/Expiration.
(a)
If the work authorized in any permit has not begun within 180 days from the date of permit issuance, the permit expires and has no further effect.
(b)
If the work described in any permit has not been substantially completed within two (2) years of the date of permit issuance, the permit expires and has no further effect. For the purposes of this section, a project shall pass the 80% inspection to be considered "substantially complete."
(Ord. No. 805 , 12-21-21)
Section 300-63. - Extension.
(a)
One 180-day extension of the plans or permit validity may be requested from the Planning and Development Director if the applicant demonstrates the failure to meet the deadlines outlined in this section is a result of extenuating circumstances.
(Ord. No. 805 , 12-21-21)
Sections 300-64—300-100. - Reserved.
