Chapter 46 - HEALTH AND SANITATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Animals, ch. 14; buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; businesses, ch. 22; solid waste, ch. 74; traffic and vehicles, ch. 86; zoning, ch. 94.
State Law reference— Power of county board of health to adopt and enforce rules and regulations, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-4(4); rules and regulations of local application, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-6; promulgation of rules, regulations and standards by department of human resources and county boards of health, O.C.G.A. § 26-2-373.

Sec. 46-1. - County health code adopted.
There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing health conditions within the city, the county health code, more particularly known as chapter 13, Board of Health Regulations, DeKalb County Code, as amended. One copy of the said county health code shall be maintained on file in the office of the city clerk, and such health code is hereby adopted and incorporated herein as if set out at length in this section.
(Code 1982, § 4-4-1; Ord. No. 526, pt. I, 2-18-03)
Sec. 46-2. - Requiring face coverings to be worn in public during the COVID-19 public health emergency.
Masks or facial coverings of the nose and mouth shall be required in public places within the City of Chamblee to slow the spread of COVID-19 as follows:
(1)
All persons entering a business or commercial establishment in the city must wear a face mask or face covering while inside the establishment. Such masks must cover the mouth and nose. This does not apply to religious establishments; however, the use of such is strongly recommended in religious establishments.
(2)
All service establishments, restaurants, retail outlets, grocery stores and pharmacies in the city shall require all employees to wear a mask or face covering that covers the nose and mouth at all times when engaged in face to face interaction with other employees or the public.
(3)
Any person who is unable to wear a face covering due to an underlying health condition as diagnosed by a licensed healthcare provider, or due to age, or is unable to safely remove the face covering without the assistance of others is exempt from this section.
(4)
Face coverings are not required in the following situations or circumstances:
a.
In personal vehicles;
b.
When a person is alone in an enclosed space;
c.
When a person or group is alone only with other family members;
d.
During outdoor physical activity, provided each person maintains proper social distancing at a minimum of six feet from others who are not family members;
e.
While eating or drinking;
f.
When wearing a facial covering would prevent receipt of personal services;
g.
When a person is six years of age or younger.
(5)
All businesses and establishment subject to this section shall post a sign in a clearly visible location near the front entrance advising that per Chamblee City Ordinance, all persons must wear a mask or face covering and violators are subject to a fine of $50.00.
(6)
Any persons failing to comply with the ordinance codified in this section shall be guilty of a civil infraction punishable by a fine of $50.00 per violation. Each day of a continuing violation of this section shall be considered a separate offense.
(7)
Persons who own, manage, operate, or otherwise control a business subject to this section found in repeated violation shall, along with their business, be subject to treatment as a public nuisance, which may be abated as provided for by law. All reasonable efforts should, however, be made to bring businesses into compliance with this section prior to enforcement actions.
Unless otherwise stated herein, the ordinance codified in this section shall be effective the 23rd day of August, 2020 at 12:00 a.m., and remain in effect while a declared state of emergency related to COVID-19 persist in the State of Georgia.
(Ord. No. 785 , 8-18-20)
