Chapter 9 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Power of city to prescribe fire safety regulations, § 1-3(6), (11).
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; buildings and building regulations, ch. 5; underground utility damage prevention, § 5-170 et seq.; civil defense, ch. 7; housing, ch. 12; mobile homes, ch. 14; motor vehicles and traffic, ch. 15; tampering with fire hydrants, § 16-6; false fire alarm, § 16-15; parks and recreation, ch. 17; water, ch. 31.
State Law reference— Municipal fire protection authorized, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV; false fire alarm, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-10-27; safety fire commissioner, Ga. Code Ann., title 25, ch. 2.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 9-1. - Violations.
(a)
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the fire prevention code adopted in this chapter, or who shall fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder and from which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such order as affirmed or modified by the mayor and council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, or who shall violate any other provision of this chapter, shall severally, for each and every such violation and noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a violation of this Code.
(b)
The imposition of one (1) penalty for any violation under this section shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
The application of the above penalties shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Code 1968, § 10-50)
Secs. 9-2—9-17. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE DEPARTMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority and powers of fire departments, Ga. Code Ann., § 25-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 9-18. - Persons prohibited from vicinity of fire.
It shall be unlawful for any person, except the firemen, the mayor and council, the police force and the owners of property in the vicinity of a fire, their agents and the agents of insurance companies, that might be affected by said fire, to go within five hundred (500) feet of any fire, without being ordered there by the officer in command of the fire department at said fire.
(Code 1968, § 10-20)
State Law reference— Parking within five hundred feet of fire apparatus stopped in answer to fire alarm, Ga. Code Ann., § 40-6-247.
Sec. 9-19. - Interfering with fire department.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or ride a vehicle through the streets and alleys in which the fire department is assembled for the purpose of extinguishing a fire.
(Code 1968, § 10-23)
Cross reference— Motor vehicles and traffic, ch. 15.
Sec. 9-20. - Arrest of thieves at fire.
The officer in command of the fire department at a fire shall have the authority to arrest, or cause the arrest by the police of the city, of any person who shall be caught stealing goods or other articles of value from any premises at or in the vicinity of the fire.
(Code 1968, § 10-27)
Cross reference— Offenses—Miscellaneous, ch. 16.
Sec. 9-21. - Answering fire calls beyond city limits.
The fire trucks and firefighting equipment of the city shall respond to fire calls beyond the corporate limits but within the county; provided however, that the expenses of responding to such calls, including the salaries of personnel, shall be paid by the county; provided, further, that neither the city nor any of its personnel shall be liable for any damage that may occur arising out of the rendering of such services.
(Code 1968, § 10-29)
Editor's note— For corporate limits of the city, see § 1-2 of the City Charter and the accompanying note.
State Law reference— Assistance during periods of emergency, Ga. Code Ann., § 25-3-3; municipal liabilities, Ga. Code Ann., § 36-33-1 et seq.
Sec. 9-22. - Damaging apparatus.
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and knowingly injure or damage in any way or by any means whatever, any hose, hook, ladder, reel or vehicle, or any other implement, material or apparatus of any kind belonging to, connected with or used by the fire department as a part of its machinery, materials or equipment for extinguishing fires.
(Code 1968, § 10-22)
Cross reference— Offenses—Miscellaneous, ch. 16.
State Law reference— Criminal damage to property, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-7-21 et seq.
Sec. 9-23. - Jumping on and off vehicles.
It shall be unlawful for any person except the firemen and other officers of the city to climb or jump on or off any vehicle of the fire department.
(Code 1968, § 10-25)
Cross reference— Motor vehicles and traffic, ch. 15.
Sec. 9-24. - Obstructing fire hydrant.
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any fire hydrant in the city without first notifying the fire department in writing and obtaining the consent of said department.
(Code 1968, § 10-18)
Cross reference— Parking near fire hydrant, § 15-160.
State Law reference— Standing or parking a vehicle within fifteen feet of a fire hydrant, Ga. Code Ann., § 40-6-203.
Secs. 9-25—9-39. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FIRE PREVENTION CODE[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Because the sale and use of fireworks are regulated by state law and by the city's fire prevention code, this subject is not specifically mentioned in the ordinances. See Ga. Code Ann., § 25-10-1 et seq.
State Law reference— Fire safety inspections by local departments serving as state inspectors, Ga. Code Ann., § 25-2-12.

Sec. 9-40. - Adopted; modifications, deletions, amendments.
(a)
For the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire and/or explosion, that certain codes known as the Rules and Regulations of the Safety Fire Commissioner Chapter 120-3-3 Rules and Regulations for the State Minimum Fire Safety Standards including modifications by the Georgia State Fire Marshal's office adopted in the Rules and Regulations pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 25-2-4, and the latest edition of said codes and standards adopted by the Georgia State Fire Marshal's office shall be the minimum fire and life safety codes for the City of Winder and are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set forth herein at length in this section, and, except as hereafter amended, the provisions therein shall be in full force and effect throughout the City of Winder.
Any subsequent amendments to or future editions of the Codes which are listed in Chapter 120-3-3 State Minimum Fire Safety Standards that are enacted and adopted by the State of Georgia are hereby incorporated herein and are hereby adopted and shall be enforced by the City of Winder Fire Chief or his designee.
The City of Winder Fire Chief has the final interpretation of all codes and standards enforced by the City of Winder Fire Department. Additional requirements concerning issues arising which may affect life and property which are not directly addressed in the minimum adopted fire and life safety codes may be enacted/required of the occupant and/or property owner by the Fire Chief or his designee.
(b)
The code will require at least two (2) exits for every type of occupancy for all buildings and/or structures. Exception: Existing buildings except in those cases where it is felt by the fire chief or designee that an extreme life safety hazard exists.
(c)
The code will require that emergency lighting facilities for means of egress shall be provided for every building and/or structure, new or existing, except residential homes and apartments.
(d)
The code will require an EXIT sign for every building and/or structure. Every exit sign shall be suitably illuminated by an internal light source and equipped with a battery backup emergency power supply. Exceptions: Residential homes and apartments and existing buildings except public assembly buildings.
(e)
The code shall require an EXIT sign over every exit, including the main entrance.
(f)
Red shall be the color used for EXIT signs unless specified differently by the fire chief or designee.
(Code 1968, § 10-41; Ord. (11-W-87) of 11-3-87; Ord. (15-W-88) of 6-7-88, §§ 1—10; Ord. (16-W-88) of 6-7-88: Ord. (21-W-89) of 11-7-89; Ord. (W-18-91) of 12-3-91; Ord. (W-1-97) of 3-4-97; Ord. ( W-14-17 ) of 7-11-17; Ord. ( W-4-20 ), § I, of 4-7-20)
Sec. 9-41. - Definition.
Wherever the word "municipality" is used in the fire prevention code adopted in this article, it shall be held to mean the city of Winder.
(Code 1968, § 10-46)
Sec. 9-42. - Enforcement and right of entry.
(a)
The chief of the fire department or his designee shall have the right to enter and examine any building, structure, vehicle or premises for the purpose of making fire safety inspections. Before entering a private building, structure, vehicle or premises, the fire official shall either obtain the consent of the occupant thereof or obtain a search warrant authorizing entry for the purpose of inspection except in case of emergency. In the event of an emergency, the fire official is authorized to enter and inspect such building, structure, vehicle or premises. As used in this section, "emergency" means circumstances that the fire official knows to exist or has reasonable cause to believe to exist and constituting an immediate danger to life or property.
(b)
Any fire official entering or inspecting a building, structure, vehicle or premises shall be identified by proper credentials issued by the city and authorized by the fire chief.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the fire official carrying out any duties or functions as set forth in this section.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to use a badge, uniform or other credentials to impersonate a fire official for the purpose of gaining access to any building, structure, vehicle or premises in the city.
(Code 1968, § 10-44; Ord. ( W-14-17 ) of 7-11-17; Ord. ( W-4-20 ), § II, of 4-7-20)
Sec. 9-43. - Supplementary to other laws.
In interpreting and applying the provisions of the fire prevention code adopted in this article, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of public health, safety and general welfare, and as supplementary to all other laws, codes or regulations of the state, county or city, formulated in the interest of the public health, safety or general welfare; and where the fire prevention code imposes a greater restriction than is imposed by other laws, codes or regulations, the fire prevention code shall govern; but where any other laws, ordinances, rules or regulations impose greater restrictions than required in the fire prevention code, such other provisions shall govern.
(Code 1968, § 10-43)
Sec. 9-44. - Attestation, filing of copies.
A copy of the codes adopted by this article, attested by the city clerk, shall be maintained on file in the office of the chief of the fire department.
(Code 1968, § 10-42; Ord. ( W-4-20 ), § III, of 4-7-20)
Sec. 9-45. - Interpretation.
The chief of the fire department shall interpret all rules in this chapter and in the fire prevention code. The construction made by said chief of the fire department shall have the legal effect of, and be enforceable as, an administrative determination of the legislative intent.
(Code 1968, § 10-45)
Sec. 9-46. - Modifications.
The chief of the fire department shall have the power to modify any of the provisions of the fire prevention code adopted in this article, upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of said code, provided that the spirit of said code shall be observed, the public safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification, when granted or allowed, and the decision of the fire chief thereon shall be entered upon the records of the fire department, and a signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
(Code 1968, § 10-48)
Sec. 9-47. - Appeals.
Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the fire prevention code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of said code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the chief of the fire department to the mayor and council within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Code 1968, § 10-49)
Sec. 9-48. - Storage areas.
The limits referred to in section 12.5(b) of the fire prevention code adopted in this article, in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited, the limits referred to in section 16.22(a) of said fire prevention code, in which storage of Class I liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited, and the limits referred to in section 21.6(a) of said fire prevention code, in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted, are hereby established as the fire district of the city, as the same is described in section 5-22 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code 1968, § 10-47)
Sec. 9-49. - Dispensing volatile inflammable liquid while light or fire is burning.
No volatile inflammable liquid shall be put into or removed from the tank of a vehicle while any light or fire is burning in the vicinity thereof.
(Code 1968, § 10-5)
Sec. 9-50. - Draining volatile inflammable liquid upon floor of garage prohibited.
No volatile inflammable liquid shall be allowed to run upon the floor or to fall or pass into the drainage system of a garage.
(Code 1968, § 10-4)
Sec. 9-51. - Metal containers for inflammable waste materials required in garages.
Self-closing metal containers shall be kept on all floors of every garage, into which all inflammable waste materials shall be deposited at all times when not in use; there shall be one (1) such container for every three thousand (3,000) square feet of floor area or fraction thereof. The contents of all such containers shall be removed from the building daily.
(Code 1968, § 10-8)
Cross reference— Waste containers, § 25-46 et seq.
Sec. 9-52. - Receptacles containing sand required in garage.
On the floor of every garage, there shall be constantly kept and maintained convenient receptacles filled with dry sand to be used in absorbing waste oils on the floor; in addition thereto, sand shall be kept on every floor in boxes or buckets provided with hand scoops to be used for fire extinguishing purposes only. There shall be one (1) such box or bucket for every two thousand (2,000) square feet of floor area or fraction thereof; or, in lieu of such boxes or buckets, there may be maintained a cart on wheels filled with sand, such cart to hold not less than four (4) cubic feet of sand.
(Code 1968, § 10-7)
Sec. 9-53. - Smoking prohibited in garage.
No person shall smoke in any garage. A notice in large letters: "NO SMOKING" shall be kept displayed in a conspicuous place and manner on all floors and at the entrances of all garages.
(Code 1968, § 10-6)
Sec. 9-54. - Storage of ashes in building.
No person shall place ashes within any building in any box, barrel or other wooden vessel or upon any wooden vessel or floor.
(Code 1968, § 10-10)
Sec. 9-55. - Notification to fire department.
(a)
Damage to structures. Any repairs, replacements or modifications of any structure, having a total dollar value of two hundred dollars ($200.00) or more, which resulted from damage by fire and/or smoke and/or heat are required to be reported to the fire chief of the city fire department within twenty-four (24) hours of the incident.
(b)
Burn victims. Any doctors office, clinic, aid station, emergency medical service, emergency room, medical facility or hospital shall be required to notify the fire chief or fire investigator of the city fire department of any burn victim or of any patient who has suffered injuries as a result of fire and/or smoke and/or heat. The following information shall be provided to the fire department:
(1)
Name of victim.
(2)
Address of victim (verified by driver's license or other proper means of identification).
(3)
Telephone number.
(4)
Age, date of birth.
(5)
Social security number.
(c)
Penalties. Any person who violates either of the preceding subsections shall be fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense.
(Ord. (17-W-88) of 6-7-88)
Sec. 9-56. - Smoking.
Any persons smoking or attempting to light or smoke a cigarette, cigar, pipe or tobacco in any form by using lighters, matches, flammable liquids or chemicals and who set fire to any bedding, furniture, curtains, drapes, house or household furnishings in any hotel, motel, roominghouse or multifamily house as a result of said smoking or attempting to smoke shall be in violation of this article.
(Ord. (17-W-88) of 6-7-88)
Sec. 9-57. - Burning of certain materials prohibited.
(a)
Generally. No material or substance which emits noxious or poison gases, such as nitrogen dioxide, hydrogen cyanide or chlorine or other poisonous gases that will not readily dissipate in the atmosphere, may be burned within the city limits.
(b)
Penalties. Whoever violates either section 9-56 or this section shall be fined two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each offense.
(Ord. (17-W-88) of 6-7-88)
Sec. 9-58. - Use, storage and transportation of explosives.
For the purpose of prescribing regulations governing the manufacture, transportation, storage and use of explosive materials, that certain code known as the "National Fire Protection Association Code—495," and all other fire codes recommended within the code, being particularly the 1985 Edition, the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are in this article deleted, modified or amended, are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as fully as if set out at length in this section; and the provisions thereof shall be in full force and effect throughout the city. This code shall be enforced by the chief of the fire department.
(Ord. (2-W-89) of 3-7-89)
Sec. 9-59. - Open burning.
(a)
A burn permit shall be required for all outdoor burning within the city limits of Winder.
(b)
Burn permits shall be obtained at the Winder Fire Department Headquarters.
(c)
Burn permits are free of charge and expire on December 31 each year.
(d)
Burning is banned from May 1 through September 30 each year.
(e)
Burning in a barrel is prohibited.
(f)
Only burning of natural hand piled vegetation is allowed.
(g)
Recreational fires that are approved by the fire chief are not required to have a permit.
(h)
All rules and regulations on the Winder Fire Department burn permit shall be adhered to.
(Ord. ( W-4-20 ), § IV, of 4-7-20)
Sec. 9-60. - Reserved.
Sec. 9-61. - Fire walls.
In all types of buildings, except one-family residential homes, the maximum open space permitted in the unoccupied attic of the structure shall not exceed three thousand (3,000) square feet in total area; such attic shall be subdivided with a one-hour rated fire wall approved by the inspection department so no space is larger than three thousand (3,000) square feet. The one-hour fire wall shall have no holes, breaches, pipes, access, and the like which would permit a fire, smoke or heat to transverse the wall. Each section shall have an access door of no less than twenty-two (22) inches by thirty-six (36) inches for entry to each section of the attic area.
(Ord. (14-W-89) of 10-3-89)
Sec. 9-62. - Approval of materials.
All walls, ceilings and floors of each living unit of every apartment, boarding room, hospital room, hotel, motel, jail, condominium, townhouse, school room, nursing home, retirement home, adult day care center and child day care center shall be made of materials approved by the inspection department to give each unit a minimum fire rating of not less than one (1) hour. Each living unit shall have no breaches, holes, devices and the like which would permit fire, heat or smoke to transverse from one unit to the next or from one unit into the attic and/or basement section of the building. In the case of heating and air-conditioning duct work, dampers shall be used in all fire walls.
(Ord. (14-W-89) of 10-3-89)
Sec. 9-63. - Notification requirement.
In the case of fire, smoke, hazardous materials, spills or leaks, automatic fire alarm, toxic fumes, building collapse, cave-in, aircraft/train crashes, or the possibility of any of those conditions existing, or any other condition in which life is in immediate danger or the conservation of property and the environment can be done, immediate notification shall be made to the fire department. The fire chief or his designated officer shall take necessary action to protect lives and save property or make the necessary notification to the proper agency best suited for the emergency.
(Ord. (14-W-89) of 10-3-89)
Sec. 9-64. - Accessibility for fire service equipment.
(1)
For residential single-family homes: The road in front of the residence shall have at least a six-inch gravel or base pavement provided to the driveway (or proposed driveway) from a main roadway already completed.
(2)
For all other types of construction: A six-inch gravel or base pavement shall be provided to or around all buildings if so specified by the building inspector and the fire chief. Accessibility shall be maintained throughout all stages of construction.
Minimum widths of access driveways, excluding parking, shall be twenty (20) feet with a turning radius of not less than fifty (50) feet.
(Ord. (22-W-89) of 11-7-89)
Sec. 9-65. - Available water for fire service equipment.
For all units of construction within the city, water mains and fire hydrants shall be installed and approved by the city water department and ready for firefighting purposes before any combustible framing begins.
No area of the construction project shall be in excess of one thousand (1,000) feet from a fire hydrant. One thousand (1,000) feet is measured by road travel by a piece of fire apparatus laying fire hose over approved roads, driveways, and parking lots.
(Ord. (22-W-89) of 11-7-89)
Sec. 9-66. - Enforcement.
(a)
Enforcement of this chapter shall be the duty of the City of Winder Fire Chief or his designee. The fire chief or his designee shall have the authority to stop any project and/or issue citations that are not in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
After the violations have been corrected and after inspection by the fire chief or his designee if the project is found to be in full compliance, such a project may resume.
(c)
The fine for a violation of this chapter shall be two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per violation and each day that an offense occurs shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. (22-W-89) of 11-7-89; Ord. ( W-4-20 ), § V, of 4-7-20)
