Chapter 16 - OFFENSES—MISCELLANEOUS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Power of the city as to prevention and punishment of criminal offenses, § 1-3(20).
Cross reference— Unlawful conduct in alcoholic beverages establishment, § 3-8; cruelty to animals, § 4-8; arrest of thieves at fire, § 9-20; damaging fire apparatus, § 9-22; police, ch. 20; municipal court, ch. 15.5.
State Law reference— Criminal Code of Georgia, Ga. Code Ann., title 16.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 16-1. - Loitering.
No person shall loiter in any public place or place of public accommodation in such a manner as to restrict pedestrian or vehicular traffic or to block the entrance or exitways of any structure or premises.
(Code 1968, § 17-39)
State Law reference— Loitering, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-11-36.
Sec. 16-2. - Entry upon property.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to wilfully enter, go upon or pass over any land of another after being personally forbidden to do so by the owner or person entitled to the possession for the time being or authorized agent thereof.
(Code 1968, § 17-47)
State Law reference— Criminal trespass, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-7-21.
Sec. 16-3. - Refusal to leave premises when requested.
It shall be unlawful for any person who is on premises of another to refuse and fail to leave said premises when requested to do so by the owner or any person in charge of said premises or the agent or employee of such owner or such person in charge.
(Code 1968, § 17-48)
State Law reference— Criminal trespass, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-7-21.
Sec. 16-4. - Damage to public property.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, intentionally and without authority to deface, destroy, damage or mutilate any property, real or personal, owned by the city or any of its agencies or authorities or by any other state, federal or local government agency. Any violation of this section shall be punished with a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and in addition the offender shall pay a sum sufficient to reimburse the city for the value of the property destroyed or the costs to repair the property damaged, as the court may determine under the evidence.
(Code 1968, § 17-3; Ord. (W-2-95) of 4-4-95)
Cross reference— Malicious mischief in cemetery, § 6-4.
State Law reference— Criminal damage to property, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-7-21 et seq.
Sec. 16-5. - Damage to private property.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, intentionally and without authority to deface, destroy, damage or mutilate any property, real or personal, belonging to another. A violation of this section shall be punished with a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and in addition the offender shall pay a sum sufficient to reimburse the owner of such property for the value of the property destroyed or the costs to repair the property so damaged, as determined by the court under the evidence.
(Code 1968, § 17-4; Ord. (W-2-95) of 4-4-95)
Charter reference— Authority of city to prevent and punish disorderly conduct, § 1-3(20).
State Law reference— Criminal damage to property, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-7-21 et seq.
Sec. 16-6. - Tampering with fire hydrants.
It shall be unlawful for any person to open any fire hydrant or to remove the nuts from the opening or to have in his possession any wrench with the intent or for the purpose of opening any fire hydrant; provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be so construed as to interfere with an officer or employee of the city opening and inspecting such hydrant in the discharge of his official duties, nor shall this section apply to any fireman under the direction of the chief of the fire department at a fire or parade or at firefighting practice.
(Code 1968, § 10-19)
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, ch. 9.
State Law reference— Interfering with utility property, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-7-25.
Sec. 16-7. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. W-4-17 , adopted April 4, 2017, repealed § 16-7, which pertained to posting property without owner's consent and derived from Code 1968, § 17-5.
Sec. 16-8. - Public indecency.
It shall be unlawful for any person to expose or exhibit, or to procure another to expose or exhibit, his sexual organs or private parts in any public place or on the private premises of another, or so near thereto as to be seen from such private premises, in a vulgar and indecent manner.
(Code 1968, § 17-19)
State Law reference— Public indecency, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-6-8.
Sec. 16-9. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. W-9-13, adopted Aug. 6, 2013, repealed § 16-9, which pertained to aiding in escape and derived from Code 1968, § 17-64.
Sec. 16-10. - Disturbing the peace.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to disturb the peace of others by violent, profane, indecent, offensive, obscene, vulgar or boisterous conduct or language, or by conduct calculated to provoke a breach of the peace.
(Code 1968, §§ 17-35, 17-36)
Charter reference— Authority of city to prevent and punish obscenity, § 1-3(20).
Sec. 16-11. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful for any person to quarrel, fight or otherwise act in a disorderly manner.
(Code 1968, § 17-35)
Charter reference— Authority of city to prevent and punish disorderly conduct, § 1-3(20).
Cross reference— Disturbance in malt beverage establishment, § 3-109; disorderly conduct in poolroom or bowling alley, § 13-118.
State Law reference— Disorderly conduct and related offenses, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-11-30 et seq.
Sec. 16-12. - Throwing rocks, other missiles.
All persons throwing rocks, sticks or other missiles, and thereby threatening injury to the person or property of another within the city limits, shall be guilty of disorderly conduct, punishable as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 1968, § 17-46)
Charter reference— Authority of city to prevent and punish disorderly conduct, § 1-3(20).
Sec. 16-13. - Disturbing public assemblies, gatherings.
No person, by hooting, crying, whistling, loud and unusual laughing and applauding, shall interrupt or interfere with any public speaking or performance or disturb a public assemblage.
(Code 1968, § 17-37)
Charter reference— Authority of city to prevent and punish for public disturbances, § 1-3(20).
Cross reference— Parades, processions and demonstrations, § 15-72 et seq.
State Law reference— Public disturbance, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-11-34.
Sec. 16-14. - Disturbing religious worship.
No person in or around any church either before, during or after divine services shall behave in such a disorderly or rude manner as to be or become offensive to any person attending such church.
(Code 1968, § 17-38)
Charter reference— Authority of city to prevent and punish for public disturbances, § 1-3(20).
State Law reference— Public disturbance, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-11-34; vandalism to a place of worship, § 16-7-26.
Sec. 16-15. - False fire alarm.
It shall be unlawful for any person to give or cause to be given a false alarm of fire with intent to deceive, or to ring any fire bell except in case of fire.
(Code 1968, § 10-26)
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, ch. 9.
State Law reference— False fire alarm, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-10-27.
Sec. 16-16. - Ringing bells.
It shall be unlawful for any person to ring any church or school bell in the city without authority from the persons in control of such church or school, except upon occasion of fire in the city, to give notice of the danger.
(Code 1968, § 17-6)
Sec. 16-17. - Disorderly house—Keeping.
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit on any premises any acts which are contrary to law or subversive of the public morals. If the premises are commonly resorted to for the commission of such acts or the proprietor knows or should in reason know what is occurring and does nothing to prevent it, he shall be guilty of a violation of this section. The person in charge of such premises at the time that such acts are being committed shall immediately report such conduct to the police department.
(Code 1968, § 17-17)
State Law reference— Keeping disorderly house, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-11-44.
Sec. 16-17.1. - Same—Frequenting.
It shall be unlawful for any person to visit or frequent any premises for the purpose and with the intention of committing any act prohibited in the preceding section.
(Code 1968, § 17-18)
Sec. 16-18. - Gambling.
Any person gaming or gambling with, or upon, anything in the corporate limits of this city, upon conviction therefor shall be punished for disorderly conduct as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 1968, § 17-20)
Charter reference— Authority of city to prevent and punish for vice, disorderly conduct, etc., § 1-3(20).
Cross reference— Gambling in poolroom or bowling alley, § 13-119.
State Law reference— Gambling, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-12-21; possession of gambling device or equipment, § 16-12-24.
Sec. 16-19. - Carrying concealed firearms.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to carry any concealed firearms on his person without a lawful permit or without being authorized to carry firearms by law.
(Code 1968, § 17-42)
State Law reference— Carrying a concealed weapon, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-11-126.
Sec. 16-20. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. W-9-13, adopted Aug. 6, 2013, repealed § 16-20, which pertained to weapons generally and derived from Code 1968, § 17-43.
Sec. 16-21. - Discharge of firearms, similar devices—Generally.
(a)
When discharge prohibited. It is prohibited to discharge a firearm, including shotguns, rifles, pistols or other similar devices discharging projectiles, within any residential, commercial, exhibition, TNPD or professional zone, either upon private or public property.
(b)
When discharge allowed. It is permitted to discharge a firearm within an agricultural or industrial zone on private property, with the property owner's permission, provided the person discharging the firearm is more than three hundred (300) feet from any property line, public road right-of-way, or occupied building and said property is greater than five (5) acres. It is also permitted to discharge a firearm within a shooting range properly permitted by the city. Air rifles, such as BB guns, pellet guns and air soft guns may be used in any zone but only under the direct supervision of an adult eighteen (18) or more years of age.
(c)
Time. Not withstanding the provisions of subsection (b), it shall be unlawful to discharge a firearm between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(d)
Exceptions. Restrictions on the discharge of firearms in this Code section shall not apply to persons acting in self defense or the defense of other as allowed by state law nor to law enforcement officers acting in the line of duty.
(Code 1968, § 17-44; Ord. (W-9-12) of 8-14-12)
Charter reference— Power of city to regulate the use of firearms, § 1-3(11).
State Law reference— Discharge of firearms on property of another, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-11-104; discharging firearm on Sunday, § 16-11-105; use of force in defense of self or others, § 16-3-21.
Sec. 16-22. - Same—Violation by minor.
It shall be deemed a violation of the preceding section for any parent or person in control of children to permit a minor child to do the acts forbidden in such section, or to furnish such minor child with firearms, including rifles, pistols, shotguns, air rifles or other similar devices; and such person by furnishing such instruments and allowing such minor child to violate the terms of that section shall also be deemed a violator thereof in the aiding and abetting of the minor child by his failure to forbid the said minor to do the acts prohibited.
(Code 1968, § 17-45)
State Law reference— Parent and child, Ga. Code Ann., title 19; parties to crime, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-2-20 et seq.
Sec. 16-23. - Maintenance of pits, pens, cellars.
All lots and cellars, pits and the like within the city limits shall, by their owners or by the occupants of the premises, be kept in such condition as not to allow any water to stagnate thereon or otherwise to become offensive or unhealthy.
(Code 1968, § 13-2)
Charter reference— Authority for above section, § 1-3(5), (9).
Sec. 16-24. - Abandoning container—Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any owner or tenant of any premises within the city to allow or permit any abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator, trunk, chest or other receptacle, container or device in which a person might become imprisoned to be or remain on such premises if such icebox, refrigerator, trunk, chest, receptacle, container or device has a virtually airtight lid, door, snap lock, latch or other locking device, without first removing such lid, door, snap lock, latch or other locking device.
(Code 1968, § 17-2)
State Law reference— Abandonment of containers with snap locks, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-11-100.
Sec. 16-25. - Same—Definition.
Any container described in the preceding section shall be considered and deemed abandoned or discarded when it is no longer used for the purpose for which it was intended, and is unattended outside of any building or structure, or is within an abandoned or unoccupied house, shed, barn or other structure within the city.
(Code 1968, § 17-2)
Sec. 16-26. - Keeping hides, other offensive matter.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep within the city hides, new or green, filth, rags, bones, guano, or anything else that may be adjudged a nuisance to the annoyance of any citizens or the detriment of public health.
(Code 1968, § 13-6)
Charter reference— Power of city to prohibit nuisances and other unhealthful practices, § 1-3(4), (5), (33), (37).
State Law reference— Nuisances, Ga. Code Ann., title 41; nuisances in cities, § 41-2-5.
Sec. 16-27. - Conditions on lots constituting health hazard—Generally.
In order to promote the public welfare and protect the health of citizens of the city, it shall be unlawful for any person in the city to maintain or cause to be maintained, upon any lot or lots owned by him, any debris or foreign matter or weeds or grass more than twelve (12) inches high or other deleterious conditions constituting a health hazard or an unsanitary condition.
(Code 1968, § 13-1; Ord. (17-W-89) of 10-3-89)
Charter reference— Power of city to prescribe standards of health and sanitation, § 1-3(5), (33), (37).
Sec. 16-28. - Same—Duty of owner to correct conditions.
The legal record titleholder of lands described in the preceding section, upon written notice from the city, shall perform any and all acts and expend such sums as are reasonable and necessary in order to clean and keep such lands free from said conditions, and shall render same safe and attractive and prevent same from continuing to be a health hazard to the citizens of the city.
(Code 1968, § 13-1)
Sec. 16-29. - Same—Action by city.
(a)
Should appropriate action not be taken by the owner under the preceding section within ten (10) days of notice thereunder, then the city shall be authorized to perform such maintenance and clearing of said lots and impose a reasonable charge upon the owner for the sums expended by the city to safeguard the health and welfare of the citizens.
(b)
In addition to the foregoing, should appropriate action not be taken by the owner under the preceding section within ten (10) days of notice thereunder, then the owner may be penalized pursuant to 1-8 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Code 1968, § 13-1; Ord. (W-8-99) of 4-6-99)
Sec. 16-30. - Public drunkenness.
It shall be unlawful for a person to be and to appear in an intoxicated condition in any public place or within the curtilage of any private residence not his own other than by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant, which condition is made manifest by stupor or sleep or by impaired coordination of volition with muscular action or by boisterousness, or by indecent condition or act, or by vulgar, profane, loud, or unbecoming language.
(Ord. (0-W-84) of 1-3-84)
Editor's note— An ordinance (0-W-84) adopted Jan. 3, 1984, enacted new provisions designated as § 16-81 which, for purpose of classification, have been redesignated at the editor's discretion as § 16-30.
Sec. 16-31. - Obscene signs.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an automobile, bicycle, or any other vehicle upon the public property or streets of Winder which displays any sticker, plate, or sign containing vulgar or obscene words or messages. The fine for any violation shall be set at twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to display on his person any written material or signs which contain vulgar or obscene words or messages while he is upon the public property or streets of Winder or upon any school or school property within the city limits of Winder. This shall include, but is not limited to, the wearing of written materials or signs upon clothes, headwear or signs upon the person. The fine for any violation shall be set at twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
(Ord. (11-W-88) of 3-8-88; Ord. (16-W-89) of 10-3-89)
Editor's note— An ordinance (11-W-88) adopted Mar. 8, 1988, enacted new provisions designated as § 16-82 which, for purposes of classification, have been redesignated by the editor as § 16-31.
Sec. 16-32. - Criminal trespass by motor vehicle.
For the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for criminal trespass by motor vehicle, O.C.G.A. section 16-7-29 is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as fully as if set out at length herein; and the provisions thereof shall be in full force and effect throughout the city.
(Ord. (3-W-89) of 6-6-89)
Sec. 16-33. - Closing hours of dancing establishments.
All dance halls, public or private clubs, lounges or any other establishment holding dances shall be closed and empty of people between the hours of 1:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. (W-9-94) of 11-8-94)
Sec. 16-34. - Urban camping and improper use of public places.
(a)
City parks. It shall be unlawful to sleep, lie down, to reside or to store personal property in any park owned by the city.
(b)
Sidewalks. It shall be unlawful to sleep, lie down, to reside or to store personal property on any sidewalk in the city.
(c)
Other public or property; blocking ingress and egress. It shall be unlawful to use any public place to sleep, lie down, to reside or to store personal property or to sit or lie down on any public property so as to interfere with the ingress or egress from the building.
(d)
Other public or property; urban camping. It shall be unlawful to use any public place, including city parks and sidewalks, for living accommodations purposes or camping, except in areas specifically designated for such use or specifically authorized by permit.
(e)
Private property; urban camping without the owner's permission. It shall be unlawful for anyone other than the owner, a leaseholder, an employee, or other rightful occupant to camp, sleep, reside, store personal property, or lie down, outside on any private property without the owner's or leaseholder's permission.
(f)
Exceptions. Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, this section shall not apply to nor be construed to prohibit the following behavior:
(1)
Persons sitting or lying down as a result of a medical emergency;
(2)
Persons sitting in wheelchairs while using parks, sidewalks, or other public places;
(3)
Persons sitting down while attending parades for which valid permits have been issued;
(4)
Persons sitting down while patronizing outdoor cafes;
(5)
Persons sitting on chairs or benches supplied by a public agency or abutting private property owner;
(6)
Persons sitting down, lying down or napping while attending sporting events, performances, festivals and concerts taking place in any park, street or sidewalk closed by permit for such purpose;
(7)
Persons sitting or lying down while waiting in an orderly line outside a box office to purchase tickets to any sporting event, concert, performance, or other special event; or
(8)
Children under the age of thirteen (13) years sleeping in parks, or sleeping anywhere else while being carried by an accompanying person or while sitting or lying in a stroller or baby carriage.
(Ord. (W-5-09), 6-2-09)
Secs. 16-35—16-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PROCEDURES AND PENALTIES UPON ARREST[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Police, ch. 20.
State Law reference— Criminal procedure, Ga. Code Ann., title 17.

Sec. 16-46. - Arrest by private citizen.
A private person may arrest for a city offense under circumstances which would justify such arrest for a state offense.
(Code 1968, § 17-80)
State Law reference— Arrest by private person, Ga. Code Ann., § 17-4-60.
Sec. 16-47. - Police to identify themselves.
Any police officer of the city, when about to arrest an offender or to examine any suspicious person or circumstances, in case his authority is questioned, shall declared himself a police officer in the execution of his office and then shall proceed to perform his duty.
(Code 1968, § 17-81)
State Law reference— What constitutes an arrest, Ga. Code Ann., § 17-4-1.
Sec. 16-48. - Arrest by officer without warrant.
Generally an arrest must be made by authority of a warrant; but an arrest may be made by an officer without a warrant if the offense is committed in the presence of the arresting officer, or if the offender is endeavoring to escape or if for other cause there is likely to be a failure of justice for want of an officer to issue a warrant.
(Code 1968, § 17-78)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, Ga. Code Ann., § 16-3-21.
Sec. 16-49. - Information required to obtain warrant.
The information required to obtain a warrant for arrest of an offender shall describe the offense substantially in the terms of the ordinance violated and with such particularity as to put the accused on notice of the nature of the charge, and may be substantially of the following form:
"State of Georgia, City of Winder:
Personally before me comes the undersigned, who on oath says that to the best of his knowledge and belief, C.D., in said city on the _______ day of _______, 19 ___, did commit the offense of (here describe the charge), contrary to the ordinances of said city.
Sworn to and subscribed before me, this _______ day of _______, 19 ___.
(Officer sign)_______
(Official title)_______"
(Code 1968, § 17-76)
State Law reference— Warrants for arrest, Ga. Code Ann., § 17-4-40 et seq.
Sec. 16-50. - Issuance of warrant for arrest—Duty of chief of police.
It shall be the duty of the chief of police, upon receipt of information that an ordinance of the city has been violated, when not done in his presence, to secure the name of his informant and the name of the offender, and appear before the recorder immediately and make an affidavit as to the alleged violation in order that a warrant may issue therefor.
(Code 1968, § 17-77)
Sec. 16-51. - Same—Affidavit made before mayor or council member.
In the event of absence or inability of the recorder, an affidavit under the preceding section may be made before the mayor and in the event of his absence or inability said affidavit may be made before the mayor pro tem and in the event of his absence or inability, before any member of the council.
(Code 1968, § 17-77)
Sec. 16-52. - Same—When issued.
When the affidavit has been made as provided in sections 16-50 and 16-51, it shall be the duty of the officer before whom said affidavit is made to issue a warrant for the arrest of the offender.
(Code 1968, § 17-77)
Sec. 16-53. - Person arrested to be brought before officer for trial.
An officer making an arrest shall exercise reasonable diligence in bringing the person arrested before the person authorized to try him.
(Code 1968, § 17-91)
State Law reference— Diligence of officer arresting, Ga. Code Ann., § 17-4-26.
Sec. 16-54. - Persons arrested to be fingerprinted.
It shall be the duty of the police to fingerprint every person arrested by the police of the city.
(Code 1968, § 17-86)
Sec. 16-55. - Refusal to be fingerprinted.
It shall be unlawful for any person arrested by the police of the city to refuse to be fingerprinted by the police department.
(Code 1968, § 17-87)
Sec. 16-56. - Inspection of fingerprints.
All fingerprints taken and obtained by the chief of police shall be the property of the city, and they shall be subject to the inspection of the officials of the city and any law enforcement officer of the state, as well as any duly authorized attorney at law representing a defendant in the courts of the city and state.
(Code 1968, § 17-89)
Sec. 16-57. - Record of fingerprints.
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to establish and maintain a file, with a record of all fingerprints obtained by the police department, properly indexed, in the office of said department.
(Code 1968, § 17-88)
Sec. 16-58. - Report of arrest—Required.
It shall be the duty of each police officer of the city to make a detailed written report, in duplicate, of each arrest made by said officer, to be delivered to the chief of police for filing with the city clerk within twenty-four (24) hours after an arrest.
(Code 1968, § 17-82)
Sec. 16-59. - Same—Contents.
The report required in the preceding section shall contain the following information:
(1)
The full name and address of the arrested person.
(2)
The full name and address of all witnesses.
(3)
The time and place of arrest.
(4)
A full description of all weapons taken from the arrested person.
(5)
A full statement of all of the facts leading to and connected with the arrest.
(6)
The signature of the arresting officer or officers.
(Code 1968, § 17-83)
Sec. 16-60. - Same—Use.
The report required in section 16-58 shall be filed in the office of the city clerk, and it shall be the duty of the city clerk to deliver the copy of each such report to the grand jury of the county at any time it may request the same, or to the district attorney at his request.
(Code 1968, § 17-84)
Sec. 16-61. - Same—Violations of duties by city officers.
Any failure of the city officers to carry out the provisions of sections 16-58—16-60 shall be sufficient cause for their removal, suspension or fine by the city council.
(Code 1968, § 17-85)
Sec. 16-62. - Right of person arrested to give bond for appearance.
Any person arrested under a warrant shall have the right to give the arresting officer a bond with good security, to be approved according to bonding regulations as promulgated by the chief of police and approved by the council.
(Code 1968, §§ 17-92, 17-93; Ord. (W-4-92) of 7-27-92)
State Law reference— Bail, Ga. Code Ann., § 17-6-15.
Sec. 16-63. - Enforcement of bonding rules, regulations and procedures.
The chief of police is authorized to promulgate, implement, and enforce such rules and regulations regarding bonding companies and bonding procedures in the city as he deems reasonably necessary and prudent, and not otherwise in conflict with these sections, and such rules and regulations shall be approved by the city council prior to being implemented and enforced.
(Ord. (W-4-92) of 7-27-92)
Editor's note— An ordinance (W-4-92) adopted July 27, 1992, amended § 16-63 in its entirety. Formerly § 16-63 pertained to prescription of type of bonds by bond officer and derived from the Code of 1968, § 17-96.
Sec. 16-64. - Nature, amount of appearance bond.
The bond authorized in the preceding section shall be joint and several, and in such sum as may be endorsed on the warrant by the officer issuing the same. If no amount is endorsed thereon, then the arresting officer may take bond in a sum equal to double the highest fine that could be imposed for the offense charged in the warrant, and the officer authorized to try the offender may fix the amount of the bond at any reasonable sum.
(Code 1968, § 17-93)
Sec. 16-65. - Condition of appearance bond.
The condition of the appearance bond provided for in this article shall be for the appearance of the defendant before the judge of the municipal court at a specified time, and from time to time thereafter as required, then and there to stand for his trial upon the charge against him, and not to depart thence without leave of the court.
(Code 1968, § 17-94)
Sec. 16-66. - Power of bail over principal on appearance bond.
The principal on an appearance bond provided for in this article shall be subject to the control of his bail, and may be imprisoned or surrendered by his bail at any time.
(Code 1968, § 17-95)
Sec. 16-67. - Giving bail more than twice for same violation.
No person shall give bail more than twice before trial for the same offense or for the same violation of the ordinances of the city.
(Code 1968, § 17-97)
Sec. 16-68. - Rearrest of defendant free on bond.
When from any cause the judge of the municipal court deems it necessary that in order to procure the attendance at the trial of a defendant free on bond, that said person should be taken into custody, he shall issue a warrant for the rearrest of such person, and shall commit such person to the city jail or require new bond, as the necessities of the case demand, bearing in mind that excessive bail shall not be required.
(Code 1968, § 17-98)
Sec. 16-69. - Forfeiture of appearance bond; show cause hearing.
Upon failure to appear of any principal in any appearance bond or recognizance given by a person charged with a penal offense, or by a witness to appear and testify, the judge of the municipal court shall cause a written notice to issue to the surety demanding that the surety produce the principal in court or show cause to the court why the bond should not be forfeited. Said written notice shall be served on the surety by personal service and shall give the surety fourteen (14) days from the date of service to either produce the principal to court or for the surety to appear in court and give reason why the bond should not be forfeited. If, after the expiration of said fourteen-day period, the conditions of the notice have not been met, then the court shall issue an order scheduling an execution hearing under O.C.G.A. section 17-6-71. The order shall be served on the surety by personal service. At the execution hearing, the court will determine whether to forfeit the bond and if forfeited, the bond is due at the hearing. The court may, in its discretion, continue the bond at the execution hearing for good and sufficient cause. If continued, a new hearing date shall be set by the court at the execution hearing. Failure to appear at any execution hearing will result in an immediate bond forfeiture and judgment shall immediately issue. Any bond forfeited at an execution hearing shall be immediately due and if not immediately paid, the city clerk shall issue judgment. Judgments may be collected as provided by law for the collection of judgments. All bonds or judgments which are paid shall be placed into an escrow account and shall remain in escrow for one hundred twenty (120) days, during which time, if the surety shall produce the principal, the surety shall be entitled to a refund of the payment as set forth in O.C.G.A. section 17-6-72. After the one hundred twenty-day period, if the principal has not been produced, then the full amount of the judgment or bond shall be transferred to the general fund of the city.
(Code 1968, § 17-99; Ord. (W-4-92) of 7-27-92; Ord. (W-5-93) of 3-2-93)
Secs. 16-70—16-74. - Reserved.
Editor's note— an ordinance (W-4-92) adopted July 27, 1992, deleted §§ 16-70—16-74 pertaining to service of scire facias and derived from the Code of 1968, § 17-99.
Sec. 16-75. - Issuance of bench warrant.
Upon forfeiture of an appearance bond provided for in this article, that fact shall be entered on the warrant, and the same ordered to proceed; whereupon, the defendant shall be rearrested and proceeded against.
(Code 1968, § 17-100)
Sec. 16-76. - Right of accused to speedy trial.
The accused shall have a right to a speedy trial; and to that end, the city shall have a right to a preemptory continuance but one (1) time; thereafter, it must show good cause for additional delay. If an accused is in custody, a continuance shall not be for a period longer than three (3) days except upon the agreement of the defendant. If an accused is not in custody, a continuance may be to such time as the court may appoint.
(Code 1968, § 17-90)
State Law reference— Right of accused to speedy trial, Ga. Const. art. I, § I, par. XI.
Sec. 16-77. - City jail.
The city jail shall be the city prison; and whenever the recorder or the mayor deems it fit, he may use the common jail of the county as the city prison under such terms as the mayor shall arrange with the county authorities.
(Code 1968, § 17-75)
Sec. 16-78. - Corporations violating penal ordinances—Appearance by agent.
Whenever complaint is made under oath that a corporation has violated a penal ordinance of the city, it shall be the duty of the officer to whom complaint is made, having authority to issue a warrant for a violation of the city ordinances, to issue a summons directed to said corporation, requiring it to appear by agent or attorney at the municipal court, at a time therein named, to answer said charge.
(Code 1968, § 17-101)
Sec. 16-79. - Same—Service.
Service in ordinance violation cases against corporations may be made by delivering a copy of the affidavit of complaint and of the summons to any agent or employee of the defendant at least three (3) days before the time set for the hearing, by any person competent to effect such service, the entry of the arresting officer of the city, or affidavit of any other person making service, being evidence of service.
(Code 1968, § 17-101)
State Law reference— Process against corporations, and mode of trial, Ga. Code Ann., § 17-7-92.
Sec. 16-80. - Same—Trial; judgment.
A trial in an ordinance violation case against a corporation may proceed ex parte if the defendant fails to appear. If judgment is against the defendant, it shall be for a fine and costs, the same to be collected by execution.
(Code 1968, § 17-101)
State Law reference— Process against corporations, and mode of trial, Ga. Code Ann., § 17-7-92.
Sec. 16-81. - Abatement of nuisances, generally; maintaining standards of neighborhood; maintaining standards of business establishments; prohibition of keeping junk, abandoned appliances, inoperative vehicles; and other equipment on property.
For the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the abatement of nuisances, O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-7 through 41-2-15 are incorporated herein by reference as if fully set out at length here; and the provisions thereof shall be in full force and effective throughout the city.
Governing body means the Winder City Council.
Public officer means the City of Winder Police Department Officer(s) and the City of Winder Code Enforcement Officer(s).
In addition to the conditions listed in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-10(a) (1) through (6), it is provided that additional standards shall include the following.
(Ord. (W-11-07) of 2-6-07)
Sec. 16-81.1. - Noise control.
(a)
Purpose: This section is enacted to protect, preserve and promote the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city through the control of noise. It is the intent of this section to establish standards that will reduce excessive community noises, which are harmful and otherwise detrimental to individuals and to the community in the enjoyment of life and property and in the conduct of business.
(b)
Sound measurement standards for law enforcement personnel: For the purpose of this section, "plainly audible" shall mean any sounds emanating from the specific sound-producing sources set forth below which can be heard from the distances set forth below, using the following sound measurement standards: Measurements shall be by the auditory senses of a person standing at a distance no less than the required minimum distance from the source of the sound. For music and other noise, words and phrases need not be discernable for music and other noise, bass reverberations are included.
(c)
Prohibited conduct:
(1)
Restrictions of three hundred (300) feet for 7:00 a.m. through 11:00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and 7:00 a.m. through 12:00 midnight on Friday and Saturday.
a.
Mechanical sound-making devices: It is unlawful for any person or persons to play, use, operate or permit to be played, used or operated any radio receiving device, television, stereo, musical instrument, phonograph sound amplifier or other machines or devices for the producing, reproducing or amplifying of sound and/or noise at such a volume and in such a manner so as to create or cause to be created any noises or sounds which are plainly audible at a distance of three hundred (300) feet or more from the building, structure or vehicle, or in the case of real property, beyond the property limits, in which it is located, whichever is farthest, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on Friday and Saturday.
b.
Human-produced sounds: It is unlawful for any person or persons to yell, shout, hoot, whistle, or sing on the public streets or sidewalks or on private property so as to create, or cause to be created, any noises or sounds which are plainly audible at a distance of three hundred (300) feet or more from the place, building, structure, or in the case of real property, beyond the property limits in which the person is located, whichever is farthest, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., Sunday through Thursday and between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on Friday and Saturday.
c.
Commercial advertising: It is unlawful for any person or persons to use, operate, or permit to be used or operated any radio receiving device, musical instrument, phonograph, loud speaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the production or reproduction of sound which is cast upon the public streets or other public property for the purpose of commercial advertising or which served to attract the attention of the public to any building, structure or vehicle in such a manner as to create, or cause to be created, any noises or sounds which are plainly audible at a distance of three hundred (300) feet or more from the source of the sound cast upon the public streets or other public property or from the building, structure or in the case of real property, beyond the property limits, in which it is located, whichever is farthest, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., Sunday through Thursday and between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on Friday and Saturday.
d.
Party noise: It is unlawful for any person or persons in charge of a party or other social event that occurs on any private property to allow that party or social event to produce noise in such a manner that such noise is plainly audible at a distance of three hundred (300) feet or more from the building or structure from which the house is emanating or in the case of real property, beyond the property limits, on which the party or social event is located, whichever is farthest, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., Sunday through Thursday and between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on Friday and Saturday. For the purpose of this subsection, a "person in charge of a party or other social event" shall mean any adult person who resides in or on the premises involved in such party or other social event" shall mean any adult person who resides in or on the premises involved in such party or social event and is present involved in such party or social event and is present at such party or social event." For the purpose of this subsection, "noise" shall mean the same sounds, or any combination thereof, as described in subsections a. and b. above.
(2)
Restrictions of one hundred (100) feet for 11:00 p.m. through 7:00 a.m., Sunday through Thursday and 12:00 midnight through 7:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday.
a.
Mechanical sound-making devices: It is unlawful for any person or persons to play, use, operate or permit to be played, used or operated any radio receiving device, television, stereo, musical instrument, phonograph sound amplifier or other machines or devices for the producing, reproducing or amplifying of sound and/or noise at such a volume and in such a manner so as to create or cause to be created any noises or sounds which are plainly audible at a distance of one hundred (100) feet or more from the building, structure or vehicle, or in the case of real property, beyond the property limits, in which it is located, whichever is farthest, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. through 7:00 a.m., Sunday through Thursday and between 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on Friday and Saturday.
b.
Human-produced sounds: It is unlawful for any person or persons to yell, shout, hoot, whistle, or sing on the public streets or sidewalks or on private property so as to create, or cause to be created, any noises or sounds which are plainly audible at a distance of one hundred (100) feet or more from the place, building, structure, or in the case of real property, beyond the property limits in which the person is located, whichever is farthest, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., Sunday through Thursday and between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on Friday and Saturday.
c.
Commercial advertising: It is unlawful for any person or persons to use, operate, or permit to be used or operated any radio receiving device, musical instrument, phonograph, loud speaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the production or reproduction of sound which is cast upon the public streets or other public property for the purpose of commercial advertising or which served to attract the attention of the public to any building, structure or vehicle in such a manner as to create, or cause to be created, any noises or sounds which are plainly audible at a distance of one hundred (100) feet or more from the source of the sound cast upon the public streets or other public property or from the building, structure or in the case of real property, beyond the property limits, in which it is located, whichever is farthest, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. through 7:00 a.m., Sunday through Thursday and 12:00 midnight through 7:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday.
d.
Party noise: It is unlawful for any person or persons in charge of a party or other social event that occurs on any private property to allow that party or social event to produce noise in such a manner that such noise is plainly audible at a distance of one hundred (100) feet or more from the building or structure from which the house is emanating or in the case of real property, beyond the property limits, on which the party or social event is located, whichever is farthest, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. through 7:00 a.m., Sunday through Thursday and 12:00 midnight through 7:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday. For the purpose of this subsection, a "person in charge of a party or other social event" shall mean any adult person who resides in or on the premises involved in such party or other social event and is present at such party or social event." For the purpose of this subsection, "noise" shall mean the same sounds, or any combination thereof, as described in subsections a. and b. above.
(3)
Restrictions for areas within apartment, condominiums, townhouses, duplexes or other such multi-family residential dwelling units. Except for persons within commercial enterprises that have an adjoining property line or boundary with a residential dwelling unit, it is unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made or continued any noise in such a manner as to be plainly audible to any other person at a distance of five (5) feet beyond the adjoining property line, wall or boundary or any apartment, condominium, townhouse, duplex or other such residential dwelling with adjoining points of contact. For the purpose of this subsection, "noise" shall mean human-produced sounds of yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, singing, or mechanically-produced sounds made by radio-receiving device, television, stereo, musical instrument, phonograph sound amplifier or other machines or devices for the producing, reproducing, or amplifying of sound, or any combination thereof. For the purpose of the subsection, "property line or boundary" shall mean an imaginary line drawn through the points of contact of (1) adjoining apartment, condominiums, townhouses, duplexes or other such residential dwelling units with adjoining points owned, rented, or leased by different persons; or (2) adjoining common areas or adjoining exterior walls. Said property line or boundary includes all points of a plane formed by projecting the property line or boundary including the ceiling, the floor and the walls.
(4)
Exclusions. The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to the following:
a.
Noises and/or sounds caused to be made by manufacturing, governmental, construction or commercial entities in the normal course of their business.
b.
Noises and/or sounds emanating from any official Barrow County School District event on Barrow County School District property.
c.
Noises and/or sounds that are permitted by a special event permit where the producer or coordinator of the special event is in compliance with the terms, restrictions and conditions of the special event permit.
d.
Noises and/or sounds caused by industrial uses in employment, industrial or commercial zones established in the City of Winder Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance.
e.
Sounds volumes produced by radio, tape player, or other mechanical sound making device or instrument from within a motor vehicle on a street or highway, which sound is controlled by the O.C.G.A. § 40-6-14.
f.
Noises or sounds made by law enforcement and other public safety officials performing their official functions.
(5)
Time restrictions on use of landscape maintenance motorized devices such as leaf blowers, lawn mowers, or chainsaws. It is unlawful to use or operate any noise-generating, motorized landscape maintenance devices, including but not limited to leaf blower, lawn mowers or chain saws, within any residential zoning district or in areas within three hundred (300) feet of any residential zoning district from 9:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. Within the agricultural residential zone, no person shall use or operate any such devices within three hundred (300) feet of any residential dwelling on adjacent property between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(6)
Registration of outdoor entertainment events. Outdoor entertainment events are subject to all applicable city ordinances and state/federal laws.
(7)
Construction or repair. Construction of any type, including but not limited to the erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration, or repair of any building, as well as the operation of any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist, automatic nailers or staplers, or any similar equipment attended by loud or unusual noise at or within one thousand (1,000) feet of any occupied residence before 7:30 a.m. or after 7:30 p.m. on weekdays and before 8:30 a.m. and after 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays. Similarly, construction as described above, for activities occurring at a distance of more than one thousand (1,000) feet from an occupied residence before 7:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m. on weekdays and before 8:00 a.m. or after 8:30 p.m. on Saturdays, and Sundays. Construction activities of an emergency nature to make repairs to a public facility, road, water/sewer line, or utility line/facility shall be exempt from this subsection, provided that any other relevant city, state and/or federal requirements are met. Any variations to the above referenced hours of operation for construction activities may be requested, in writing, at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the proposed operation, for consideration by the city planning and development department. Such request shall state (1) the reason that such a variation from the allowable work hours is needed; (2) the impact the denial of this request will have on the applicant's project and the surrounding properties; (3) the steps which have been taken by the applicant to communicate those needs and impacts to owners of surrounding and nearby properties. If the director finds that the application adequately demonstrates the need for a variation from the above allowable work hours and adequately provides for the amelioration of the impact upon surrounding and nearby properties, permission shall be granted for one variation within one (1) twenty-four-hour period. If no complaints are received regarding noise associated with the applicant's activities during the additional work time allowed by the director, the director may grant for that project, one (1) additional variation in any twenty-four-hour period.
(8)
Schools, courts, places of worship and hospitals. The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, place of worship or court while in use or adjacent to any hospital which unreasonably interferes with the normal operation of that institution, or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital, provided the conspicuous signs are displayed in those streets indicating a school, hospital, or court.
(9)
Animals. The owning, possessing or harboring of any animal which frequently, or for continued duration, howls, barks, meows, squawks or makes other sounds which create excessive and unnecessary noise across a residential or commercial real property line within a noise-sensitive area. For the purpose of this article, "barking dog" shall mean a dog that barks, bays, cries, howls or makes any other noise continuously or incessantly for a period of ten (10) minutes or barks intermittently for one-half hour or more to the disturbance of any person at any time of day or night, regardless of whether the dog is physically in or upon private property; however, a dog shall not be deemed a "barking dog" if, at the time the dog is barking or making any other noise a person is trespassing or threatening to trespass upon property in or upon which the dog is situated.
(10)
This section shall be in addition to all other provisions of the Winder City Charter and City Code relating to nuisances and shall not be construed to limit or restrict, abrogate or impair the powers of the city or any department thereof to enforce any provisions of the Charter or other ordinances or regulations or to prevent or punish violations thereof, and the powers conferred by this section shall be in addition to and supplemental to the powers conferred by any other law.
(11)
Any person violating any order issued pursuant to this section may, in addition to all other remedies, be penalized pursuant to section 1-8 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. (W-11-07) of 2-6-07)
Sec. 16-81.2. - Nuisance abatement.
Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to exercise the police power in relation to public nuisances and the abatement of such nuisances, to protect the public health, safety and welfare and to promote the economic development of the city. It is also the purpose of this chapter to prevent and prohibit those conditions which reduce the value of private property, interfere with the enjoyment of public and private property, create and constitute fire and other safety and health hazards and generally create a menace to the health and welfare of the public and contribute to the degradation of the character of neighborhoods and depreciation of property values. It is necessary for the public health, safety and welfare to regulate, prevent and prohibit conditions which may constitute disorderly, disturbing, unsafe, unsanitary, fly-producing, rat harboring, and/or disease causing places, conditions or objects. It is also necessary for the public, social and economic welfare to regulate, prevent and prohibit conditions that degrade the city's scenic attractiveness and livability and its economic development.
(Ord. (W-11-07) of 2-6-07)
Sec. 16-81.3. - Types of nuisances.
Each of the following places, conditions or things is declared to constitute a public nuisance, and whenever the code enforcement officer determines that any of these conditions exist upon any premises, the officer may require or provide for the abatement thereof pursuant to this chapter:
(1)
Stagnant water on premises.
(2)
Any dead or decaying matter, weeds, vegetation or any fruit, vegetable, animal or rodent upon premises which is odorous or capable of causing disease or annoyance to the inhabitants of the city.
(3)
The generation of smoke and fumes in sufficient amount to cause an odor or annoyance to the inhabitants of the city.
(4)
The pollution of public water or the injection of matter into the sewage system which is damaging thereto.
(5)
Maintaining a dangerous or diseased animal or fowl.
(6)
Obstruction of a public street, highway or sidewalk without a permit.
(7)
Loud or unusual noises which are detrimental or annoying to the public, including without limitation, unusual loud disturbances in or around churches or multiple-family complexes such as loud music and other activities in swimming pool and clubhouse areas.
(8)
All walls, trees, building or other structures that may endanger persons or property or present an eminent danger of falling.
(9)
Any business or building where illegal activities are habitually and commonly conducted in such a manner as to reasonably suggest that the owner or operator of the business or building was aware of the illegal activities and failed to reasonably attempt to prevent those activities.
(10)
Unused iceboxes, refrigerators and the like unless the doors, latches or locks thereof are removed.
(11)
Any trees, shrubbery or other plants or parts thereof which obstruct clear, safe vision on roadways and intersection of the city.
(12)
Any premises, dwelling unit or other structure, place or vacant lot permitted to deteriorate in appearance or condition so as to be degrading to the surrounding premises.
(13)
The keeping of used or dilapidated furniture, appliances, machinery, bicycles, automobiles, automobile parts and other toys, junk, debris or other equipment that are either in an inoperable condition with an expired tag and/or are wholly or partially wrecked, junked or dismantled, upon premises which are not completely enclosed within a building or fence or enclosure free from public view.
(14)
Tall grass, weeds and bushes, other undergrowth, and trash and debris of any type upon the premises of any dwelling unit or structure, place or vacant lot.
(15)
Slaughtering and butchering of animals, except as permitted in an A-1 or A-2 zone.
(16)
Any outdoor lighting which is detrimental or annoying to the public or directly interferes with the quiet enjoyment of surrounding residential premises.
(17)
Garbage that is not placed in carts or cans at the curb.
(18)
Parking on sidewalks, city right-of-way or on water or gas meters.
(19)
Livestock (goats, chickens, pigs, cows, horses, mules, other varieties of fowl etc.) in the city except as permitted in an A-1 or A-2 zone.
(20)
Any other condition constituting a nuisance under state law.
(Ord. (W-11-07) of 2-6-07)
Sec. 16-81.4. - Prohibited conduct.
It is unlawful for any responsible person(s) to create, permit, maintain, suffer, carry on or allow, upon their premises, any of the acts or things declared by this chapter to be a public nuisance. Any person creating, keeping or maintaining a nuisance, or permitting, allowing or suffering any nuisance to be maintained, who neglects or fails to abate or remove the nuisance within twenty-four (24) [hours] or within the time period prescribed by the code enforcement officer after so creating, keeping or maintaining the nuisance or permitting, allowing or suffering the same to be maintained, shall for each twenty-four (24) hours thereafter during which the nuisance is continued, be guilty of a separate violation of maintaining a public nuisance.
(Ord. (W-11-07) of 2-6-07)
Sec. 16-81.5. - Abatement order.
(a)
Upon the discovery of a nuisance, the code enforcement officer may order the responsible person creating, keeping, maintaining or permitting the same to abate it, and in default thereof, to undertake the abatement on behalf of the city. At least ten (10) days before commencing abatement, save in those cases of immediate necessity, the officer shall notify the person creating, keeping, maintaining or permitting the nuisance, the property owner and any person in possession of the property, if known, of his intentions. The notice shall be served personally or by first class mail and shall describe with particularity the nature of the violation, the sections of this Code or other law which is being violated and specifying a reasonable time within which the abatement must be accomplished.
(b)
In addition to other penalties as may be imposed, a court entering a judgment of guilty to a charge of creating a public nuisance may order abatement of the same on such terms and conditions as may be just and equitable.
(Ord. (W-11-07) of 2-6-07)
Sec. 16-81.6. - Abatement—Immediate.
Whenever any nuisance is within a public way or easement, or is of such a character and so situated that it can be abated without the invasion or destruction of property or the prejudice of any right, and the further continuance is likely to result in expense to the city or injury to any person or property, and the responsible person(s) cannot be contacted or refuses to immediately abate the condition, the enforcement officer may abate and remove the nuisance summarily. The expense of such abatement may be recoverable as provided in section 16-81.9.
(Ord. (W-11-07) of 2-6-07)
Sec. 16-81.7. - Abatement by city—Safeguards.
In any case where a nuisance is to be abated by the enforcement officer, it shall be the duty of such officer to proceed with due care and without unnecessary destruction of property. The enforcement officer shall in all cases be authorized to employ such assistance and adopt such means as may be necessary to effect the entire abatement of the nuisance.
(Ord. (W-11-07) of 2-6-07)
Sec. 16-81.8. - Complaint of nuisance.
Any city official or inhabitant of the city may file in writing a verified complaint of nuisance with the city office of code enforcement. A finding by any governmental health department, health officer or a building inspector that any property, dwelling building, or structure is a health or safety hazard shall constitute prima facie evidence that such property and/or person is in violation of this article.
(Ord. (W-11-07) of 2-6-07)
Sec. 16-81.9. - Recovery of cost for abatement.
The cost of abating, vacating, and closing or removal or demolition or cleanup shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred. Such lien shall attach to the real property upon the payment of all costs incurred by the city and the filing of an itemized statement of the total sum of said costs in the office of the Barrow County Clerk of Superior Court on a lien docket maintained by the Barrow County Clerk of Superior Court for such purposes.
(Ord. (W-11-07) of 2-6-07)
Sec. 16-81.10. - General penalty.
Any person guilty of maintaining a nuisance as defined herein, or any person who fails to abate a nuisance after being ordered to do so, shall be in violation of this article and shall be subject to penalties specified in sections 1-8, 16-81.1 through 16-81.8 of this Code of Ordinance.
(Ord. (W-11-07) of 2-6-07)
Sec. 16-82. - Payment of fines.
(a)
The judge of the municipal court is hereby authorized to establish a probation system to provide general probation supervision, fine collection services, counseling, and other probation services for persons convicted in the city recorders court and placed on probation. The mayor may appoint from time to time clerks or assistant clerks of the municipal court and probation officers for the municipal court.
(b)
Failure to abide by the terms of probation set by the judge or his designee shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and/or imprisonment of not more than ten (10) days in the city jail.
(Ord. (4-W-89) of 6-6-89; Ord. (W-1-93) of 1-5-93; Ord. (W-11-94) of 12-6-94)
Sec. 16-83. - Additional penalty for jail fund.
In every case in which the municipal court shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of this state or any ordinance of the city, there shall be imposed by the judge as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten (10) percent of the original fine. The additional ten (10) percent penalty so imposed shall be assessed and collected by the officer or agent of the court charged with the duty of collecting monies arising from such fines and such additional ten (10) percent penalty shall be paid over to the governing authority of the county with which the city has contracted for jail services, to be paid to such governing authority of the county by the tenth day of the month following the month in which such sums are collected. Such sums paid over to the governing authority of the county shall be designated to be deposited by the governing authority of the county into a special account known as the "county jail fund".
(Ord. (W-4-09), 5-5-09)
Editor's note— Ord. No. W-4-09, adopted May 5, 2009, enacted provisions intended for use as § 16-82. To preserve the style of this Code, and in order to facilitate indexing, said provisions have been redesignated as § 16-83.
Secs. 16-84—16-99. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FIREWORKS REGULATIONS

Sec. 16-100. - Title.
The sections of this article shall be known and designated as the "Fireworks Regulations Ordinance."
( Ord. (W-2-16) of 5-3-16, § 1 )
Sec. 16-101. - Definitions.
(a)
As used in this article, the term:
Consumer fireworks means any small fireworks devices containing restricted amounts of pyrotechnics composition, designed primarily to produce visible or audible effects by combustion, that comply with the construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission as provided for in Parts 1500 and 1507 of Title 16 of the Code of Federal Regulations, the United States Department of Transportation as provided for in Part 172 of Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations and the American Pyrotechnics Association as provided for in the 2001 American Pyrotechnics Association Standard 87-1, and additionally shall mean Roman candles.
Consumer fireworks retail sales facility shall have the same meaning as provided for by NFP A 1124; provided, however, that such term shall not include a tent, canopy, or membrane structure.
Consumer fireworks retail sales stand shall have the same meaning as provided for by NFPA 1124; provided, however, that such term shall not include a tent, canopy, or membrane structure.
Distributor means any person, film, corporation, association, or partnership which sells consumer fireworks.
Electric plant shall have the same meaning as provided for in O.C.G.A. § 46-3A-1.
Fireworks means any combustible or explosive composition or any substance or combination of substances or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or detonation, including blank cartridges, skyrockets, bombs, sparklers, and other combustibles and explosives of like construction, as well as articles containing any explosive or flammable compound and tablets and other devices containing an explosive substance.
NFPA 1124 means the National Fire Protection Association Standard 1124, Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles, 2006 Edition.
Nonprofit group means any entity exempt from taxation under Section 50 I (c )(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, any entity incorporated under Chapter 3 of Title 14 of the [Official Code of Georgia Annotated] Georgia Non-Profit Corporation Code, or a sponsored organization of a public or private elementary or secondary school in this state.
Proximate audience means an audience closer to pyrotechnic devices than permitted by the National Fire Protection Association Standard 1123, Code for Fireworks Display, as adopted by the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner.
Pyrotechnics means fireworks.
Store shall have the same meaning as provided for by NFP A 1124; provided however, that such term shall only include such buildings with at least 4,000 square feet of retail display space and wherefrom:
(A)
No more than 25 percent of such retail display space is used for consumer fireworks and items or products as provided for under paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of this section; and
(B)
Other items or products which are not consumer fireworks or items or products as provided for under paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of this section are sold; and provided further that such term means a person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership with more than one mercantile location, with all such mercantile locations are collectively known to the public by the same name or share central management.
Wastewater treatment plant shall have the same meaning as provided for in O.C.G.A. § 43-51-2.
Water treatment plant shall have the same meaning as provided for in O.C.G.A. § 43-51-2.
(b)
As used in this article, the term "consumer fireworks" or "fireworks" shall not include:
(1)
Model rockets and model rocket engines designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models, toy pistol paper caps in which the explosive content averages 0.25 grains or less of explosive mixture per paper cap or toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices using such paper caps; nor shall the term "consumer fireworks" or "fireworks" include ammunition consumed by weapons used for sporting and hunting purposes; and
(2)
Wire or wood sparklers of 100 grams or less of mixture per item; other sparkling items which are nonexplosive and nonaerial and contain 75 grams or less of chemical compound per tube or a total of 500 grams or less for multiple tubes, snake and glow worms; smoke devices; or trick noise makers which include paper streamers, party peppers, string peppers, snappers, and drop pops each consisting of 0.25 grams or less of explosive mixture.
( Ord. (W-2-16) of 5-3-16, § 1 )
Sec. 16-102. - Reserved.
Sec. 16-103. - Limited prohibition as to consumer fireworks or fireworks.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to offer for sale at retail or wholesale, to use or ignite or cause to be ignited, or to possess, manufacture, transport, or store any consumer fireworks or fireworks, within the city except as expressly authorized by the general law of the State of Georgia but also as limited by this article as follows:
(1)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association or partnership to use or ignite or cause to be ignited any consumer fireworks or fireworks, within the city on any day after the time of 9:00 p.m., and up to and including the time of 11:59 p.m., and during the morning hours of 12:00 midnight until 10:00 a.m. of any day pursuant to the noise ordinance of the city and this article, except as otherwise provided for under subparagraph (2) of this section or such use or ignition is allowed pursuant to the issuance of a special use permit pursuant to section 16-104 of this article.
(2)
Not withstanding subparagraph (a)(l) of this section, the use or ignition of any consumer fireworks or fireworks, within the city is further allowed for additional hours without a special use permit as follows:
(A)
The use or ignition of any consumer fireworks or fireworks is allowed on January 1, July 3, July 4, and December 31 of each year after the time of 9:00 p.m. and up to and including the time of 11 :59 p.m. without a special use permit; and
(B)
The use or ignition of any consumer fireworks or fireworks, within the city is allowed on January 1 of each year for the additional time of 12:00 midnight and up to and including the ending time of 1:00 a.m. without a special use permit.
(b)
The right to use or ignite or cause to be ignited, any consumer fireworks or fireworks, as provided herein, is further subject to any regulations and restrictions concerning the use of consumer fireworks due to a declaration of drought by the Georgia Governor, and with the municipal city limits being within the boundaries of the area covered by the drought declaration. The regulations and restrictions of the drought declaration shall not be effective on January 1, July 3, July 4, or December 31 of any year. The drought regulations and restrictions shall also be rescinded upon the expiration or conclusion of the drought declaration. Any person that violates the drought regulations and restrictions by the use or ignition of consumer fireworks or fireworks will also be subject to a violation of this article, and subject to the penalties for violation of this article as provided herein.
(c)
It shall unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to use or ignite or cause to be ignited any consumer fireworks or fireworks, within the city in violation of O.C.G.A. §§ 25-10-2 and 25-10-2.1, and such violation shall be deemed to be a violation of this article, besides being a violation of state law.
( Ord. (W-2-16) of 5-3-16, § 1 )
Sec. 16-104. - Prohibition of consumer fireworks or fireworks in city public areas or the use of fireworks at a time not authorized by the general law of the State of Georgia except pursuant to a special use permit.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to offer for sale at retail or wholesale, to use or ignite or cause to be ignited, or to possess, manufacture, transport, or store any consumer fireworks or fireworks, on, upon, or above any city property, including but not limited to the public areas of the city including parks, or during the hours of 9:00 p.m. and up to and including the time of 11:59 p.m. on any day, except as provided herein and except as allowed by a special use permit issued by the city.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to use or ignite or cause to be ignited any consumer fireworks on any day at a time not allowed by the general law of the State of Georgia or this article within the city, or upon any city public property, or both, unless such person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership is issued a special use permit by the city council for the use or ignition of consumer fireworks in such ways. The applicant for a special use permit shall use the application forms of the city for said permit, and shall designate the time or times and/or location that such person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership desires to use or ignite or cause to be ignited such consumer fireworks or fireworks. The city council shall consider the application, and considering reasonable factors such as the time requested, the proposed location of the fireworks display, prior experience concerning the applicant's use of fireworks, the potential for fires or wildfires, and other reasonable factors, and in its discretion based upon these factors grant or deny the issuance of a special use permit. If the special use permit is granted by the city council, then the applicant shall pay a special use permit fee of $100.00 to the city. If the application is denied, then the applicant shall have a right of appeal to the superior court of the applicable county pursuant to the procedures for the grant of a writ of certiorari by said court. The City of Winder, the city council, and the agents of the city shall have no liability as to any decision made pursuant to this section.
( Ord. (W-2-16) of 5-3-16, § 1 )
Sec. 16-105. - Occupational tax for a licensed distributor operating a permanent consumer fireworks retail sales facility or store in the city.
A licensed distributor operating a permanent consumer fireworks retail sales facility or store shall be entitled to receive a city occupational tax license for said facility or store upon making application for said license from the city pursuant to the city's procedure, and providing a copy of the license issued to the distributor and as to said permanent facility or store by the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner or the judge of the probate court of the applicable county and as provided by general law. The occupational tax license fee for said licensed distributor shall be assessed for said licensed distributor upon the same basis as other businesses, professions, or occupations under the city's occupational tax ordinance. Any termination, revocation, or suspension of the license issued by the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner shall act to automatically in similar fashion terminate, revoke, or suspend the city occupational tax license issued to said licensed distributor. If the licensed distributor selling consumer fireworks from a permanent consumer fireworks retails sales facility or store is a part of a store having multiple store locations as provided within O.C.G.A. § 25-10-51, then any city occupational tax license issued for said store location shall be sufficient to authorize the sale or the offer for sale at retail or wholesale any consumer fireworks or fireworks without having said store acquiring an additional occupational tax license from the city as to the sale of consumer fireworks or fireworks.
( Ord. (W-2-16) of 5-3-16, § 1 )
Sec. 16-106. - License for a temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand.
The City of Winder is hereby authorized to issue a temporary license (and which shall also serve as a temporary occupational tax license) for a temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand or stands, provided that the city fire department, or the fire department that is legally authorized to operate within the city, determines that the temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand meets the requirements of the general law of the State of Georgia, including but not limited to O.C.G.A. § 25-10-5.1(c)(I) and O.C.G.A. § 25-10.5.1(a)(1). In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 25-10-5.1(c)(2), a temporary license shall also be granted in the event that the judge of the probate court of the applicable county determines that such a temporary license should be issued due to an appeal of the decision by the applicable fire department. The application for the temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand shall be submitted to the applicable fire department, and with a copy provided to the administrative office of the city. Any temporary license issued shall identify the temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand applicable to such license, and the temporary license shall expire on the next January 31 after the issuance of such license. The license fee for a distributor selling consumer fireworks from a temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand shall be $500.00 per location, payable to the governing authority of the city. The distributor shall provide a copy of the list of distributor's temporary consumer retail sales stands submitted to the safety fire commissioner to the applicable fire department and the administrative office of the city as a part of the temporary license application. All temporary licenses for a temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand shall only be issued to licensed distributors where the sales of consumer fireworks from at least one (out of two permitted) such temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stands shall accrue to the benefit of a nonprofit group as agreed between the licensed distributor and the participating nonprofit group. A nonprofit group benefitting from the sale of consumer fireworks pursuant to this provision shall directly participate in operating the temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand. The regulations of this article applicable to the sale of consumer fireworks from temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stands shall only be applicable until January 31, 2018.
( Ord. (W-2-16) of 5-3-16, § 1 )
Sec. 16-107. - Enforcement.
(a)
The city fire department, or any applicable fire department that operates within the city, is authorized to refer cases for enforcement as to violations of O.C.G.A. § 25-10-5.1(c) to the state fire marshal.
(b)
All fireworks or consumer fireworks manufactured, offered for sale, exposed for sale, stored, used, ignited or caused to be ignited in violation of this article or state law, or both, are declared to be contraband (including fireworks in the possession of the violator but not yet used, ignited or caused to be ignited) and may be seized, taken, and removed, or caused to be removed and destroyed or disposed of, by a sale with the proceeds of the sale to be used for public safety purposes, or destroyed at the expense of the owner thereof, or both, by any authorized law enforcement officer operating within the City of Winder. Any property declared as contraband pursuant to this article shall be forfeited in accordance with the procedures set forth in Chapter 16 of Title 9 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated (O.C.G.A.).
(c)
Any law enforcement officer of the city, or any law enforcement officer authorized to provide law enforcement services within the city, shall be entitled to enforce the ten provisions of this article or state law, or both, relating to the use or igniting or causing to be ignited fireworks or consumer fireworks, or both.
( Ord. (W-2-16) of 5-3-16, § 1 )
Sec. 16-108. - Certain devices unlawful that require a flame for propulsion or lighting.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to release or cause to be released any balloon, bag, parachute, or other similar device which requires fire underneath for propulsion or to release or cause to be released any floating water lantern or wish lantern which uses a flame to create a lighting effect in any public waters within the City of Winder.
( Ord. (W-2-16) of 5-3-16, § 1 )
Sec. 16-109. - Penalties.
Any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership that knowingly violates the provisions of this article may be punished by a fine, or imprisonment, or both, up to the maximum penalties allowed under the City Charter for the City of Winder, or pursuant to state law. Each act in violation of this article, including but not limited each sales transaction, shall be deemed to be a separate offense, and subject to the maximum penalties as provided herein.
( Ord. (W-2-16) of 5-3-16, § 1 )
