CHAPTER 2.140. - SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS

2.140.010. - Settlement of claims.
(a)
The county administrator shall have the authority in consultation with the county attorney to settle or compromise any claim, suit, action, cause of action, grievance, administrative charge, or other liability asserted against the county or asserted against a county officer or employee, whether in litigation or otherwise, if such settlement or compromise can be accomplished by paying no more than $100,000.00 in return for a full and final release (or such other partial release as may in the judgment of the county attorney adequately protect the county's interests) of such claim, suit, action, cause of action, grievance, administrative charge, or other liability. The county administrator shall have the authority to execute on the county's behalf any agreement documenting such a settlement or compromise. Likewise, the county administrator shall have the authority in consultation with the county attorney to settle or compromise any claim, suit, action, cause of action, grievance, administrative charge, or other liability which the county has asserted or may assert against any other individual or entity, whether in litigation or otherwise, when the amount of the county's claim is no more than $100,000.00, in return for the county's release of such claim, suit, action, cause of action, grievance, administrative charge, or other liability. The county administrator shall also have the authority to execute on the county's behalf any release or agreement documenting such a settlement or compromise.
(b)
The county's director of financial services shall have the authority in consultation with the county attorney to settle or compromise any claim, suit, action, cause of action, grievance, administrative charge, or other liability asserted against the county or asserted against a county officer or employee, whether in litigation or otherwise, if such settlement or compromise can be accomplished by paying no more than $50,000.00 in return for a full and final release (or such other partial release as may in the judgment of the county attorney adequately protect the county's interests) of such claim, suit, action, cause of action, grievance, administrative charge, or other liability. The county's director of financial services shall have the authority to execute on the county's behalf any agreement documenting such a settlement or compromise. Likewise, the county's director of financial services shall have the authority in consultation with the county attorney to settle or compromise any claim, suit, action, cause of action, grievance, administrative charge, or other liability which the county has asserted or may assert against any other individual or entity, whether in litigation or otherwise, when the amount of the county's claim is no more than $50,000.00, in return for the county's release of such claim, suit, action, cause of action, grievance, administrative charge, or other liability. The county's director of financial services shall also have the authority to execute on the county's behalf any release or agreement documenting such a settlement or compromise.
(c)
The county's risk manager shall have the authority in consultation with the county attorney to settle or compromise any claim, suit, action, cause of action, grievance, administrative charge, or other liability asserted against the county or asserted against a county officer or employee, whether in litigation or otherwise, if such settlement or compromise can be accomplished by paying no more than $25,000.00 in return for a full and final release (or such other partial release as may in the judgment of the county attorney adequately protect the county's interests) of such claim, suit, action, cause of action, grievance, administrative charge, or other liability. The county's risk manager shall have the authority to execute on the county's behalf any agreement documenting such a settlement or compromise. Likewise, the county's risk manager shall have the authority in consultation with the county attorney to settle or compromise any claim, suit, action, cause of action, grievance, administrative charge, or other liability which the county has asserted or may assert against any other individual or entity, whether in litigation or otherwise, when the amount of the county's claim is no more than $25,000.00, in return for the county's release of such claim, suit, action, cause of action, grievance, administrative charge, or other liability. The county's risk manager shall also have the authority to execute on the county's behalf any release or agreement documenting such a settlement or compromise. The county's risk manager shall provide a monthly reporting of all settlements under the provisions of this subsection to the director of financial services and to the county attorney.
(d)
Any settlement accomplished according to the provisions of subsections (a), (b), or (c) above may contain standard mutual settlement provisions such as confidentiality, denial of liability, severance, release, and other such terms. To the extent that non-standard terms or conditions are included, such as settlements involving equitable relief or disposition of county property, the county's board of commissioners shall be informed of such terms and shall have the right to disapprove any such proposed settlement.
(e)
To the extent that any settlement of a claim against the county or its employees or officials involves insurance funds, all of the provisions of the county's insurance contracts shall apply in addition to the terms of this ordinance [chapter].
(f)
All settlements accomplished in accordance with the terms of subsections (a), (b), or (c) of this section shall be made in consultation with the appropriate department director or elected official in the case of constitutional officers.
(g)
Nothing contained in this ordinance [chapter] shall be deemed to constitute any waiver of the governmental immunity (whether sovereign immunity, official immunity, statutory immunity, qualified immunity, legislative immunity, judicial immunity, quasi-judicial immunity, or any other immunity or defense based on immunity of any sort) afforded to the county or its employees or officials by the United States Constitution, federal law, the Georgia Constitution, and/or by Georgia law. The county and its officials and employees specifically reserve the right to assert any applicable immunity or defense based thereon in any claim, action, lawsuit, or proceeding.
(h)
The purchase by the county of any liability insurance policy shall likewise not be deemed to constitute any waiver of the governmental immunity (whether sovereign immunity, official immunity, statutory immunity, qualified immunity, legislative immunity, judicial immunity, quasi-judicial immunity, or any other immunity or defense based on immunity of any sort) except to the extent explicitly required by Georgia law. Any such purchase of liability insurance by the county shall exhibit no intent by the county to waive any defense available to it, including any immunity-based defenses, as it is the explicit intent of the county to retain all such defenses to the extent that they are available under applicable law.
(Res. of 2-24-22(2) , ยง 1)
