CHAPTER 2.130. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS AND REGISTRATION
EXPAND
2.130.010. Board of elections—Generally.
2.130.020. Board of elections—Duties.
 
2.130.010. - Board of elections—Generally.
The board shall be authorized and empowered to organize itself, may elect from its membership a vice chairperson, shall determine its procedural rules and regulations, adopt by-laws, specify the functions and duties of staff as they relate to the policies, performance and execution of matters within its jurisdiction, and shall otherwise take such actions as are appropriate for the management of its affairs; provided, however, that no such action shall conflict with state law.
(Res. of 7-26-18(1), § 1)
2.130.020. - Board of elections—Duties.
The commissioners shall be authorized to expend public funds to provide the board of elections and registration with such proper and suitable administrative offices and with such clerical assistance and staff to include a director of elections as the commissioners shall deem appropriate. The director of elections shall administratively supervise the "day to day" operations of the elections office and shall report to the county administrator. The director of elections shall assist the board in planning, directing and coordinating the activities required to conduct fair and impartial elections for Hall County in compliance with all applicable laws. The director of elections also shall assist in registering voters, and maintaining accurate records. In addition, but not limited to the foregoing, the director of elections shall assist the board of elections and registration in carrying out the policies, duties and responsibilities of the board as to all other matters within its jurisdiction. In such capacity, the director of elections shall support the board of elections and registration. Compensation for such clerical and administrative staff shall be paid by the commissioners under the personnel system wholly from county funds. This section shall not be construed so as to require the commissioners to expend any funds simply because they are authorized to do so under this Act.
(Res. of 7-26-18(1), § 2)
