ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-27. - Members; authority.
The city is governed by the city council, consisting of five councilmembers who are vested with all corporate, legislative and other powers of the city as permitted by the city Charter and by law. The council shall be the final judge of the election and qualifications of its members, also of the amount and manner of compensating them for their services, to the extent permitted by the city Charter and state law.
Sec. 2-28. - Compensation.
Effective January 1, 2020, the compensation for the mayor and council shall be as follows:
(1)
Mayor. The mayor of the city shall be compensated for services to the city in the amount of $12,000.00, annually, payable in monthly installments of $1,000.00.
(2)
Councilmembers. Each city councilmember shall be compensated for services as a councilmember in the amount of $6,000.00, annually, payable in monthly installments of $500.00.
(Code 1992, § 2-27; Ord. No. 2009-03, 6-2-2009; Ord. No. 2011-3, 8-16-2011; Ord. No. 2019-1, 5-21-2019 )
State Law reference— Authority to provide compensation and employee benefits to municipal officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Secs. 2-29—2-59. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MEETINGS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Open meetings and notice of meetings required, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1; meetings of governing bodies of counties and municipalities to be open, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-1.

Sec. 2-60. - Meetings.
(a)
Time. The time for the regular monthly meeting of the city council held on the first Tuesday of each month shall be 6:00 p.m. in the council chambers at City Hall, or at such other times and places as may be designated from time to time by the city council; and
(b)
Special meetings. The council may hold special meetings on the call of the mayor or the mayor pro tem and two councilmembers. Notice of any such special meetings shall be served on all other councilmembers personally or by personal telephone, email or other direct contact, no less than 24 hours in advance of the meeting. The notice requirements of this section shall not be required and shall be waived if all councilmembers are present when this special meeting is called. Such notice of any special meeting may also be waived by a councilmember in writing before or after such a meeting. Attendance at a special meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice on any business transaction in a councilmembers presence. Only the business stated in the notice may be transacted at a special meeting, unless all councilmembers unanimously consent to the transacting of additional business.
(c)
Work sessions. The city council may hold work sessions at such times as is necessary to carry out their duties.
(d)
Open meetings. All meetings of the city council shall be public to the extent required by law, and notice to the public of any special meetings shall be given, to the extent reasonably possible, as provided in O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1, or other such applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(e)
Chairperson. In the absence of the mayor and mayor pro tem, any member of the council may be chosen to take the chair at the hour appointed for any meeting.
(f)
Compelling attendance of witnesses. The city council may also adopt procedures and penalties for compelling the attendance of absent members, as well as punishment for contemptuous behavior conducted in the presence of the city council.
(g)
Quorum. A majority of councilmembers present shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the city council. A less number may adjourn from time to time and compel attendance of absentees.
(h)
Voting. Voting on the adoption of any ordinance either be by voice vote or by show of hands, and the vote shall be recorded in the minutes of the council. Any member of the council shall have the right to request a roll call vote, and such vote shall also be recorded in the minutes, if requested. Except as otherwise provided in the City's Charter or by general law, the affirmative vote of three councilmembers shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution or motion. All councilmembers shall have a duty to vote on any matter coming before the city council that requires such a vote, unless a councilmember has a conflict of interest as defined in the City's Charter or is as otherwise legally excused or prohibited from voting by the city Charter, or any other laws, ordinances or regulations of the state.
(i)
Committee reports. Every committee shall report at the succeeding meeting of the council on all matters referred to them or show good cause why such report is not made.
(j)
Duty to attend. It shall be the duty of each member of the city council to attend each meeting of the city council, unless he is prevented by some unavoidable circumstance.
(Code 1992, § 2-26; Ord. of 12-5-1972(1); Ord. No. 2016-5 , 6-21-2016; Ord. No. 2021-5 , 10-19-2021)
State Law reference— Requirement to prescribe the time, place and dates of regular meetings of city council; due notice requirement for other than regular meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d); meetings to be open to public, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.; excluded proceedings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-3.
Sec. 2-61. - Agenda.
(a)
Preparation of agenda. The city clerk, with the advice of the city council, shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. The agenda shall be made available to the council and to the public at some time during the week immediately prior to the meeting. Members of the public may request that a particular subject be placed on the agenda for the following meeting. This request must be submitted in writing to the city clerk and received at least three business days before the meeting. A new subject that requires attention may be added to the agenda during a meeting by a majority vote of the council.
(b)
Repetitious motions. When a motion before the council is defeated, a motion regarding the same or a substantially similar subject shall not be placed on the agenda and shall not be raised before the council for a period of six months from the date of its defeat.
(c)
Public hearings regarding zoning issues. Public hearings regarding zoning shall be conducted in accordance with O.C.G.A. §§ 36-66-4 and 36-66-5 and shall constitute an exception to the provisions of this section that conflict with the cited statutes.
(Ord. No. 2016-5 , 6-21-2016)
State Law reference— Meeting agenda required, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1.
Sec. 2-62. - Minutes of meetings.
(a)
Required; open to public. A summary of the subjects acted on and those members present at a meeting must be written and made available to the public for inspection within two business days of the adjournment of a meeting. The city clerk shall promptly record the minutes for each council meeting and such records shall be open to public inspection once approved as official by the council, but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the council.
(b)
Minimum contents. Minutes must, as a minimum, include the names of the members present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made, and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll-call vote the name of each person voting for or against a proposal must be recorded. In all other cases it shall be presumed that the action taken was approved by each person in attendance unless the minutes reflect the names of the persons voting against the proposal or abstaining.
Sec. 2-63. - Rules for conduct of business.
The procedural rules for conduct of business before the council shall be established and amended as necessary from time to time by the city council. ;oxh5; Secs. 2-64—2-84.\Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - ORDINANCES

Sec. 2-85. - Procedure for adoption of ordinances and retention of council records.
(a)
Time for presenting; rules for consideration. An ordinance may be introduced by any councilmember and read at a regular, work session, or special meeting of the city council. Ordinances shall be considered and either adopted or rejected by the city council in accordance with the rules it shall establish upon introduction of any ordinance.
(b)
Emergency ordinances. The city council may adopt emergency ordinances as provided and limited by the City's Charter.
(c)
Distribution of copies to council; copies for public inspection. The clerk shall, as soon as possible, distribute a copy of each ordinance to each councilmember and retain a reasonable number of copies in the city clerk's office for inspection and copying by members of the public.
(d)
Distribution of copies to codifier. Upon passage, the clerk shall forward certified copies of all ordinances to Municipal Code Corporation or any other person responsible for the codification of the city's ordinances, so that this Code can be properly revised and updated.
(e)
Numbering of ordinances and resolutions. After adoption of ordinances, the city clerk shall number them consecutively, in the order of their final adoption, and record them in a permanent record book used solely for this purpose. The clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of numbers and a separate record book.
(f)
Filing and retention of original documents. The city clerk shall file and preserve the original copies of all ordinances, resolutions, and any written motions.
(Ord. No. 2016-5 , 6-21-2016)
Secs. 2-86—2-113. - Reserved.
