Chapter 40 - PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.; municipal and county ordinances for issuance of permits to charitable organizations for solicitation of contributions on streets and highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-97.1; charitable solicitations, O.C.G.A. § 43-17-1 et seq.; transient merchants, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 40-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Itinerant merchant means any person regardless of whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, and regardless of whether a resident of the city, who engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares, and merchandise within the city, and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses, or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad box car, boat, or public room in any hotel, lodginghouse, apartment, or shop within the city for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares, and merchandise, either privately or at public auction.
Peddler means any person, regardless of whether a resident of the city, traveling by foot, wagon, automotive vehicle, or any other type of conveyance from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying, or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden produce, farm products, or provisions who offers and exposes the same for sale, or who, without traveling from place to place, sells or offers the same for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle, railroad car, or other vehicle or conveyance.
Secs. 40-2—40-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PEDDLERS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 40-21. - Exemptions.
None of the provisions of this article shall extend to persons selling the agricultural products of any state, nor to persons selling agricultural implements, nor to persons engaged in the manufacturing and selling of jugs and flower pots, nor to persons working with official nonprofit organizations.
(Code 1992, § 6-202; Ord. of 5-3-1983, § VII)
Sec. 40-22. - Prohibited locations.
No peddler or itinerant merchant shall be permitted to locate any such business enterprise inthe following locations:
(1)
Upon any lot located on Watson Boulevard from 2764 Watson Boulevard on the east and to Margie Drive on the west.
(2)
Upon any lot located on Houston Lake Boulevard on the south to Brantley Road on the north.
(3)
Upon any lot located on Carl Vinson Parkway from Elberta Road to Dunbar Road.
(4)
Upon any location on Collins Avenue from Watson Boulevard on the south to Thomson Avenue on the north.
(5)
Such other locations as are specified from time to time by the city council.
(Code 1992, § 6-202; Ord. of 5-3-1983, § IV)
Sec. 40-23. - Property lease required for location.
No peddler or itinerant merchant shall be permitted to operate his business without proof of a written lease from the owner of the property upon which the peddler business is to be operated.
(Code 1992, § 6-203; Ord. of 5-3-1983, § V)
Sec. 40-24. - Noise restrictions.
No licensee under this article, nor anyone in his behalf, shall shout, make any outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell, or use any other sound device including any loud-speaking radio or amplifying system upon any of the streets, alleys, parks, or other public places of the city or upon any private premises in the city where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks, or other public places for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares, or merchandise that the licensee proposes to sell.
Secs. 40-25—40-51. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 40-52. - Required; fee.
All peddlers and itinerant merchants selling goods or services in the city shall first obtain a license as provided in this division. The license fee for peddlers and itinerant merchants shall be as set out in the city fee schedule in chapter 22, to be paid upon application by each person desiring to engage in such business.
(Code 1992, § 6-221; Ord. of 5-3-1983, § I)
Sec. 40-53. - Application.
At the time of making license application each peddler shall furnish evidence of his good character which shall include among other things his social security number, his places of residence for the previous 12 months, a copy of his driver's license, and two passport-type pictures. If the license is granted one of the pictures must be attached to the license which license must be carried on the person of the peddler at all times.
(Code 1992, § 6-222; Ord. of 5-3-1983, § II)
Sec. 40-54. - Oath.
Each peddler shall take and subscribe before the city clerk this oath:
"I swear that I will use this license in no city other than Centerville, that I will not suffer any person to use it in my name, and that I am a citizen of the United States. So help me God."
(Code 1992, § 6-223; Ord. of 5-3-1983, § III)
Sec. 40-55. - Duty to exhibit.
All persons obtaining a license under the provisions of this article shall be required to exhibit such license at the request of any citizen.
Secs. 40-56—40-83. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CHARITABLE SOLICITORS

Sec. 40-84. - Registration required.
Any person who wishes to solicit donations or contributions for, or to sell any insignia or novelty on the streets of the city on behalf of, or under the sponsorship of, any charitable, religious, social, patriotic, or civic club or organization shall be required to register such solicitation or sale with the city clerk and the chief of police at least 48 hours in advance of such event and to obtain a permit therefor.
Sec. 40-85. - Application for permit.
(a)
The permit required by this article shall be in writing, shall be signed by the chief officer of the club or organization, and shall contain the following information:
(1)
The name and object of the charitable, religious, social, patriotic, or civic club or organization conducting or sponsoring the solicitation or sale to which the registration relates;
(2)
The day on which the solicitation or sale will take place;
(3)
The object for which the funds to be derived from the solicitation or sale will be utilized; and
(4)
The name and address of the chief officer of the club or organization conducting or sponsoring the solicitation or sale.
(b)
The application shall be accompanied by a permit fee in the amount provided in the city fee schedule in chapter 22.
Sec. 40-86. - Exemptions.
This article shall not apply to any locally established organization or church operated exclusively for charitable or religious purposes if the solicitations are in the form of collections or contributions at the regular assemblies of any such organization or church.
Sec. 40-87. - Duty to exhibit registration.
Charitable solicitors shall be required to exhibit their permit at the request of any citizen.
Sec. 40-88. - Prohibited acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person to execute an application for permit under this article that contains any false statement, and it shall be unlawful for any person to solicit donations or contributions or sell any insignia or novelty on the streets of the city purportedly in behalf of, or under the sponsorship of, any charitable, religious, social, patriotic, or civic club or organization that does not in fact exist.
