ARTICLE VII. - FINANCE[10]
Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
State Law reference— Municipal finance generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; adoption of budget articles and resolutions, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; political subdivision audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-7; accounting for public funds, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-1; limitations on use of purchasing and contract procedures, O.C.G.A. § 34-4-3.1; municipal bonds, O.C.G.A. § 36-38-1; standards for city and county audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-8; officer responsible for political subdivision investments, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-4; public works bidding, O.C.G.A. § 26-91-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-371. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city shall begin on July 1 and end on June 30 of each year.
State Law reference— Fiscal year required to be established by ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3.
Sec. 2-372. - Fee schedule; fees established by resolution.
The city maintains a schedule of fees for permits, licenses, and other municipal charges as set forth in chapter 22. The amount of fees or charges imposed by the city including, but not limited to, those encompassed in the city's fee schedule, shall be established from time to time by resolution or ordinance of the city council, as the council deems necessary.
Secs. 2-373—2-402. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BUDGET

Sec. 2-403. - Submission of annual budget.
(a)
Not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the city accountant shall submit to the city council a proposed operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year, showing the following:
(1)
The revenue and expenditure during the previous fiscal year;
(2)
Appropriations and estimated revenue and expenditures for the current fiscal year;
(3)
Estimated revenue and recommended expenditures for the ensuing fiscal year;
(4)
Such other information and data as may be considered necessary by the city council.
(b)
The city council may amend the proposed operating budget submitted by the city accountant containing a statement of the general fiscal policies of the city, the important features of the budget, explanations of any major changes recommended for the next fiscal year, a general summary of the budget and any other pertinent comments and information the city accountant feels necessary. The operating budget and the capital budget hereinafter provided for, the budget message and all supporting documents shall be maintained in the office of the city clerk and shall be open to public inspection.
(Ord. No. 2016-5 , 6-21-2016)
State Law reference— Annual budget generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3 et seq.
Sec. 2-404. - Action by city council on budget.
(a)
The city council may amend the proposed operating budget submitted by the city accountant. However, the budget as amended must comply with state law budgeting requirements for local governments and city policies and ordinances governing city finances and must include funding for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year. Moreover, total appropriations of the city's funds shall not exceed revenues and unassigned fund balance.
(b)
The city council by resolution shall adopt a final operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year, no later than the regular scheduled June council meeting for each year. If the city council fails to adopt the budget on or before the date set out herein, the amounts appropriated for operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly until such time as the city council adopt a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. If the city is operating on a tentative budget, then the city council may not make any capital purchases or other such expenditures until a new budget is agreed upon and formally adopted. Notice of any or all meetings at which the budget is adopted shall be given as provided by state law.
(c)
Adoption of the budget shall take the form of an appropriations resolution setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose, or activity as set out in the budget preparation ordinance adopted pursuant to this division and the city Charter.
(d)
The amount set out in the adopted operating budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for same, and no expenditures shall be made or any encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise encumbered balance of the appropriations or allotment thereof to which it is chargeable unless the budget is amended and such excess expenditure approved by the city council. In addition, the city council shall not make any appropriations in excess of any estimated revenue, except to provide for an actual emergency threatening the health, property, or lives, safety or general welfare of the inhabitants of the city, which emergency shall be declared by the affirmative vote of three members of the council.
(Ord. No. 2010-5, 5-4-2010; Ord. No. 2016-5 , 6-21-2016)
State Law reference— Adoption of budget, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-6.
Sec. 2-405. - Changes in appropriations.
The city council may by resolution, make changes in the appropriations contained in the adopted operating budget, at any regular meeting or any special or emergency meeting called for that purpose, but any such additional appropriations may be made only for an anticipated unappropriated surplus in the fund to which it applies.
(Ord. No. 2010-5, 5-4-2010)
Sec. 2-406. - Lapse of appropriations.
Any unencumbered balances of appropriations in the current operating budget at the end of the fiscal year shall lapse into the unappropriated surplus or reserves of the fund from which such appropriations were made.
Sec. 2-407. - Independent audit.
There shall be an annual independent audit of all city accounts, funds, and financial transactions by a certified public accountant selected by the city council. The accountant shall conduct this audit according to generally accepted auditing and accounting principles and file a report with the city council, as well as a summary thereof, both of which shall be furnished or made available to every councilmember. Any audit of any funds by the state or federal governments may be accepted as satisfying the requirements of this section.
Secs. 2-408—2-429. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PURCHASES[11]

Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; multiple-year contracts and leases, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-13; public works contracts, O.C.G.A. § 36-84-1 et seq.; municipal purchases through state department of administrative services, O.C.G.A. § 50-5-100 et seq.

Secs. 2-430—2-456. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS

Sec. 2-457. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
City public works construction contract means any contract for public works construction for the city or negotiated by the city for the benefit of the public or an individual, regardless of whether or not the city is a party to the contract.
Construction means public works improvements or repairs the objective of which is to build, install, repair or improve a permanent structure, location, system or device with lumber, masonry, concrete, asphalt, rock, gravel, metal, plastic, glass or other similar material, to include necessary machinery, appliances or other fixtures and devices necessary for proper completion of such improvement or repairs.
Long-term or substantial means any contract of a duration exceeding 12 months, or involving the payment by the city of more than $50,000.00 for any goods, services, equipment or materials.
Permanent means having a useful life of five years or more.
Sec. 2-458. - Contracting procedures.
(a)
No long-term or substantial public works construction contract with the city shall be binding on the city unless:
(1)
It is in writing;
(2)
It is drawn by or submitted and reviewed by the city attorney, and as a matter of course, is signed by the city attorney to indicate such drafting or review; and
(3)
It is made or authorized by the city council and such approval is entered in the city council minutes of proceedings.
(b)
The city shall follow the requirements of state law with regard to any public works construction projects as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-91-1 et seq. or other such applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted in giving notice, receiving bids, requiring performance and payment bonds, and entering into public works construction contracts for such projects.
(c)
The city council shall have the discretion to require any outside contractors, subcontractors, or other persons to execute a written contract or letter or memorandum of understanding in all outside city public works construction projects costing in excess of $5,000.00, depending on the nature of the project.
Sec. 2-459. - Bids required.
Every city public works construction contract in the amount of $5,000.00 and over shall require competitive bidding.
Sec. 2-460. - Application of state law.
O.C.G.A. § 13-10-1, as the same may hereafter be amended, shall apply to all city public works construction contracts within limits specified therein.
State Law reference— Bonds for public works contracts, O.C.G.A. § 13-10-1.
Sec. 2-461. - Invitation to bid or to submit proposals; advertisement.
No city public works construction contract within the regulation of this article shall be entered into until an invitation to bid or to submit proposals has been published at least two times, one week apart in the official legal organ of the city. The invitation will state the following:
(1)
The nature of the work to be performed;
(2)
The project description, if applicable; and
(3)
The location where specifications for the work, bid documents and bid requirements may be obtained.
Sec. 2-462. - Bid bonds or other security.
(a)
In every instance where the city is seeking a public works construction contract subject to this article no bid shall be considered unless the contractor shall give a bid bond with good and sufficient surety approved by the city clerk for the faithful acceptance of the contract, payable to the city and for the protection of the city and the person for which the city seeks to contract. The bid bond shall be in the amount of not less than five percent of the total payable by the terms of the public works construction contract.
(b)
In lieu of the bid bond provided for in subsection (a) of this section, a cashier's check, certified check or cash will be accepted by the city, in such amount, payable and for the protection aforesaid.
Sec. 2-463. - Performance bond; payment bond.
(a)
Every contractor subject to the provisions of this division shall furnish a performance bond with good and sufficient surety payable to, in favor of, and for the protection of the city and/or the person for whom the work is to be done. The performance bond shall be in the amount of at least the total amount payable by the terms of the public works construction contract.
(b)
Every contractor subject to provisions of this division shall furnish a payment bond with good and sufficient surety payable to the city and/or the person for whom the work is to be done, and for the use and protection of all subcontractors and all persons supplying labor, materials, machinery, and equipment in the prosecution of the work provided for in the public works construction contract.
(c)
In lieu of either or both of the bonds provided for in subsections (a) or (b) of this section, the city may accept a cashier's check, certified check or cash in the amount of either or both of the otherwise required bonds for the usage and protection aforesaid.
Sec. 2-464. - Workers compensation insurance required.
All contractors performing work subject to this division shall have workers' compensation insurance within limits required by the laws of the state.
Sec. 2-465. - Liability insurance required—Vehicle.
All contractors performing work subject to this division shall have vehicle liability insurance on each vehicle used in the work, with limits not less than $100,000.00, $300,000.00 personal injury and $50,000.00 property damage.
Sec. 2-466. - Same—Public.
All contractors performing work subject to this division shall have public liability insurance with limits not less than $100,000.00 personal injury and $50,000.00 property damage.
Sec. 2-467. - Period of insurance coverage; additional insured; copies.
Insurance required by this division shall be effective for the time required to complete the city contract. With the exception of workers' compensation insurance, the city and/or the party who the city has arranged the work shall be listed as an additional insured. Copies of insurance policies evidencing compliance with this division must be furnished to city prior to commencing contract performance.
Sec. 2-468. - Bonds; acceptability.
All bonds required by this division shall be obtained from companies holding certificates of authority as acceptable sureties, currently listed as such in federal publications. ;oxh5; Secs. 2-469—2-488.\Reserved.
