PART I - CHARTER[1]
An Act to create and incorporate a new municipality in Houston County, Georgia, to be known as Centerville; to define its territorial limits; to provide for ordinances; to declare and constitute the rights and powers of said corporation; to provide the rights and powers, duties and liabilities and qualifications of all officers; to provide the manner of electing officers; to provide a governing body pending elections; to provide qualifications of all voters, electors and candidates; to provide for the permanent registration of the qualified voters of said municipality and for the registration books of said municipality and when same shall be open; to provide for the mayor's court and the trial and punishment therein of all offenders against the ordinances of said municipality, and manner of appeal therefrom; to provide the time of elections and terms of officers and salaries thereof; to provide for the enacting of all necessary ordinances, rules and regulations for the orderly management and operation of said municipality; and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same:

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Charter for the City of Centerville, Georgia, as adopted and set forth in 1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 486), page 3323. Amendments to the original Charter are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision derives unchanged from the original Charter. The format of the Charter, including section numbers, has been retained. The directory provisions of the various acts, including severability, repealer, effective date, affidavits and notices of intent, have been omitted. A uniform system of punctuation and capitalization has been used. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation and material in brackets [ ] has been added for clarity. The text of this document does not reflect subsequent amendments to state law generally or changes in city procedure that render sections of the Charter implicitly repealed or amended.
State Law reference— Home rule for municipalities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ II; creation, dissolution, merger, boundary changes, and deannexation of municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-2; municipal annexations, O.C.G.A. § 36-36-1 et seq.; home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; limitations on home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; requirement for filing and publication of charter, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-5; incorporation of municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-31-1 et seq.; terms city, town, and municipality declared synonymous, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-1.

Section 1. - [Municipality created.]
That a new municipality be and the same is hereby created, to be known as Centerville, to have perpetual existence, power to sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, to have and use a common seal, to hold, possess, lease, sell or otherwise dispose of property within or without the limits of the corporation, to borrow money, to fully contract respecting municipal affairs, and to do all and every lawful act relating to its creation and existence as a municipality of the state.
Section 2. - [City boundaries.]
Editor's note— Sections 2 and 2A of this Charter describe the boundaries of the city limits as contained in a written description derived from multiple annexations by the city completed in 2003-2006 in addition to various acts of the general assembly. The written description in those sections is omitted here but retained permanently on file in the office of the city clerk, identified as "The Official Description of the Corporate Limits of the City of Centerville, Georgia." Historical information regarding the annexations is available in the office of the city clerk. The acts of the general assembly that revised the corporate boundaries of the city as described in the original Charter of 1958 are as follows:
(1)
1964 Ga. Laws (Act No. 878) page 2860.
(2)
1973 Ga. Laws (Act No. 632) page 3468.
(3)
1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 135) page 2836.
(4)
1980 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1074) page 3702.
(5)
1988 Ga. Laws (Act No. 831) page 3638.
(6)
1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 729) page 3550.
(7)
1991 Ga. Laws (Act No. 152) page 4172.
(8)
1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1176) page 6443.
(9)
2001 Ga. Laws (Act No. 96) page 3928.
(10)
2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 582) page 4622.
In addition, the original Charter has been updated during recodification by the addition of the 1991, 2001, and 2002 acts.
Section 3. - [Governing authority.]
The governing authority of said city shall consist of a mayor and four councilmen, whose salary shall be fixed by the governing authority at a minimum of $1,200.00 per annum, payable monthly, for the mayor, and $900.00 per annum, payable monthly, for each councilman, provided that no action to increase compensation above the minimum salary specified herein shall be taken until notice of intent to do so shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within Centerville, Georgia, at least once a week for three consecutive weeks immediately preceding the week in which such action is taken.
(1963 Ga. Laws (Act No. 137), page 2413; 1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 211), page 2521; 1968 Ga. Laws (Act No. 893), page 2765; 1974 Ga. Laws, page 4063)
Editor's note— Charter § 3 has been superseded by ordinance enacted pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4. See Code.
Section 3A. - [Requirements for holding office and becoming candidate for office.]
Requirements for continuing to hold office of councilman and mayor shall be the same as those for becoming a candidate for office.
(1968 Ga. Laws (Act No. 893), page 2765)
Section 4. - [Election of mayor and council; terms.]
The following shall be mayor and councilmen respectively, from the passage of this Act, and until their successors are elected and qualify: Sherrill Stafford, mayor; Ira T. Garvin, John Mark Mathews, Earl L. Sims and Paul Stalnaker, councilmen.
The named mayor and councilmen shall take office within 30 days of the passage and approval of this Act, taking an oath to faithfully perform the duties of their offices before a judge of the Superior Court of Houston County.
An election for a mayor and four councilmen shall be held on the Tuesday after the first Monday in November, 1958, and the candidate who secures the largest number of votes for mayor shall take office for a term of two years, and the candidate who secures the largest number of votes for councilman shall serve as mayor pro tem and as councilman for a term of two years; the candidate who secures the next largest number of votes for councilman shall serve as councilman for a term of two years and the two candidates who secure the next two largest number of votes shall serve as councilmen for terms of one year each.
Yearly, beginning with 1959, on the Tuesday after the first Monday in November, an election shall be held to fill vacancies resulting from expiration of terms, and terms of all officers elected in [the] 1959 election and thereafter shall be two years.
The mayor and council shall announce the hours of voting at least ten days before the holding of an election. The mayor and councilmen hereafter elected shall serve in their respective offices until their successors are elected and qualify. The mayor and councilmen shall take office on the first Monday of December following their election, taking the same oath of office and in the same manner as provided for the persons specially named hereinabove as the initial mayor and councilmen.
Editor's note— All general municipal elections are mandated to be held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November in each odd-numbered year pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 21-2-9. All municipal officers are elected for four-year terms, unless otherwise provided by local law, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 21-2-541.1.
Section 4A. - [Council positions numbered; determination of successful candidate.]
The positions on the city council shall be numbered post nos. 1 through 4, respectively. Those councilmen whose terms of office expire in the year 1966 shall be numbered post nos. 1 and 2. Those councilmen whose terms of office expire in the year 1967 shall be numbered post nos. 3 and 4. Candidates offering for election as councilmen shall designate by number the post for which they offer for election.
In order to be elected to the council or the office of mayor, a candidate must receive a majority of the number of votes cast for that office for which they offer for election. In the event no candidate for an office receives a majority of the votes cast at the regular election, there shall be a runoff election held between the two candidates who receive the highest number of votes for that office two weeks from the date of the regular election.
(1966 Ga. Laws (Act No. 333), page 3047; 1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 211), page 2521)
Section 5. - [Filling of vacancies; meetings.]
In the event of any vacancy prior to expiration of term in the office of mayor or councilman by death, resignation, or for any other cause, such vacancy or vacancies shall be filled by the holding of a special election within 60 days after such vacancy if more than six months remain in the term of office. If less than six months remain, vacancy or vacancies shall be filled by a majority vote of the remaining officers within 30 days after such vacancy, and in each such case cited, the mayor or councilman, as the case may be, shall take office immediately. Said mayor and councilman shall normally hold regular and open meetings on the first Tuesday of each calendar month and called meetings at such times necessary to conduct the affairs of the city. However, the date of any meeting may be changed if advertised in a newspaper of general circulation at least three days prior to such meeting.
(1968 Ga. Laws (Act No. 893), page 2765)
Section 6. - [Qualifications of candidates; residency.]
The mayor and councilmen shall be qualified to vote for members of the General Assembly of Georgia, shall be at least 21 years of age, and shall have been a resident of such corporation for at least six months prior to the election at which office is sought. On and after December 1, 1985, the mayor and councilmen shall be required to continue to reside in the city during their terms of office; and the office of the mayor or any councilman shall be declared vacant upon the person holding such office removing his residence from the city.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 475), page 4830)
Editor's note— Municipalities and counties are prohibited from requiring officers or employees to be residents of the municipality or county pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 45-2-5.
Section 6A. - [Freeholder qualification.]
Any person seeking to qualify for the office of mayor or as a member of the council, in addition to the qualifications required in section 6, shall be a freeholder.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 211), page 2521)
Editor's note— Since enactment of this sections by the Georgia General Assembly, freehold requirements for public office have been held unconstitutional. See, e.g., Turner v. Fouche, 396 U.S. 346, 90 S.Ct. 532, 24 L.Ed.2d 567 (1970); Woodward v. City of Deerfield Beach, 538 F.2d 1081, (5 th Cir.1976); Henderson v. Fort Worth Ind. Sch. Dist., 526 F.2d 286 (5 th Cir.1976); Billington v. Hayduk, 439 F.Supp. 975 (S.D.N.Y.1977), aff'd 565 F.2d 824 (2d Cir.1977); Green v. McKeon, 335 F.Supp. 630 (E.D.Mich.1971), aff'd 468 F.2d 883 (6 th Cir.1972); Stapleton v. Clerk for Inkster, 311 F.Supp. 1187, (E.D.Mich.1970); Davis v. Miller, 339 F.Supp. 498, 499 (D.Md.1972); Anderson v. Belle Glade, 337 F.Supp. 1353 (S.D.Fla.1971); Socialist Workers Party v. Welch, 334 F.Supp. 179 (S.D.Tex.1971); Duncantell v. City of Houston, Texas, 333 F.Supp. 973 (S.D.Tex.1971); Connerton v. Oliver, 333 F.Supp.201 (S.D.Tex.1971).
Section 7. - [Voter qualifications.]
The qualifications necessary to entitle a person to vote at any municipal election shall be as follows:
(a)
Such person shall be at least 18 years of age.
(b)
Shall have resided within the corporate limits of the municipality for at least three months preceding the date of election.
(c)
Shall be a citizen of the United States and of the State of Georgia.
(d)
Shall be qualified to vote for members of the General Assembly of Georgia.
Section 8. - [Voter registration; election managers.]
The mayor and councilmen shall keep or cause to be kept by a registrar, open at all times except as indicated hereinafter, a book for the registration of voters, and all qualified voters shall register therein, taking an oath to be prescribed by the governing authority of the corporation, embodying the elements of qualification set forth in this Act.
Said registration book shall be closed 30 days before any municipal election and during the first ten days of such period the registration list shall be purged of all disqualified voters by the mayor and councilmen. At least ten days prior to any election, a registrar, appointed by the mayor and council, shall prepare and post, at some prominent and central place within the corporate limits, a list of voters qualified to vote at such election, and no person shall be entitled to vote in said election whose name does not appear on said list, or as the same may be augmented by the names of persons duly registered but erroneously eliminated from said list, and as so determined upon complaint of the voter so eliminated.
At least three days prior to any municipal election, the registrar aforesaid shall furnish a copy of the list of qualified voters to the managers of said election whose selection is hereinafter provided.
At least ten days prior to any municipal election, the mayor and councilmen shall select two freeholders and qualified voters of said corporation to serve as the managers at such election. Such managers shall preside over the election at the polling place or places and for the period of time said place or places are held open, as prescribed by the mayor and councilmen; shall receive the ballots, count, and consolidate the vote, and report the same to the governing authority, which shall meet and declare the result of said election on the Monday following next after such election.
Title 34A of the Code of Georgia [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-520 et seq.] shall govern the contest of any primary or election conducted within the City of Centerville. In the event that the provisions of Title 34A [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-520 et seq.] shall not be applicable to any particular matter which shall be raised in the contest of any such primary or election, then the same shall be governed by the provisions of law now or hereafter applicable to the contest of any primary or election conducted to nominate candidates for or to fill state offices.
(1971 Ga. Laws (Act No. 194), page 2466)
Editor's note— Since enactment of this section by the Georgia General Assembly and the 1971 amendment by the city, statutory requirement regarding elections and voting have been amended. For current provisions, see applicable statutes and the relevant provisions of the Code in Part II.
Section 9. - [Power, authority of legislative department.]
The mayor and councilmen shall constitute the legislative department of the city government, and as such shall be vested with full power and authority to condemn property either within or without the corporate limits, necessary for any public purpose, in accordance with the method and procedure of the condemnation of property provided by the laws of Georgia; to lease or sell any public property not used for public purposes; to make and establish by ordinance or resolution, rules and regulations respecting public streets, sidewalks, alleys, and parks, public markets and marketing, drainage, fire prevention and control, railroads, street railroads and transportation systems, motor buses and other common carriers for hire, hotels, theaters, and any and all places of amusement or to which the public is invited, buildings, motor vehicles and other vehicles, filling stations, garages, public-utility companies, and respecting all other matters and things affecting the good government of said corporation as they shall deem requisite and proper for the security, welfare, health, and convenience of said municipality, and for the preservation of the peace and good order of the same.
This general enumeration of powers is not to be construed as in conflict with any other power or authority conferred by the terms of this Act or general acts applicable to this corporation, but, on the contrary, shall be construed as in aid of such power.
All legislation shall be adopted or rejected by the majority vote of the mayor and councilmen, the mayor, in all cases, being entitled to a vote.
Section 10. - [Zoning authority.]
The mayor and councilmen may, in the interest of public health, safety, order, convenience, comfort, prosperity, or general welfare, adopt by ordinance a plan or plans for the districting or zoning of the corporation for the purpose of regulating the location of trades, amusements, industries, apartment houses, dwellings or other uses of property; or for the purpose of regulating the height of buildings, fences, or other structures or the area or dimensions of lots or of yards used in connection with buildings or other structures; or for the purpose of regulating the alignment of buildings or other structures in relation to streets or in relation to one another.
The zoning regulations may be based upon any one or more of the purposes above described.
The corporation may be divided into such number of zones, districts, or areas, and such may be of such shape and area as the governing authority shall deem best suited to accomplish the purposes of the zoning regulations.
In the determination and establishment of zones, districts, and areas, and regulations relating thereto, classifications may be based on the nature or character of the trade, industry, profession activity conducted or to be conducted upon the premises; the number of persons, families, or other group units to reside in or use said buildings; the public, quasi public, or private nature of the use of the premises; consistency of use of such premises with the use of other properties, both public and private, and including properties of the corporation, the county, the state, and the United States; or upon any other basis or bases relevant to the promotion of the public health, safety, order, morals, conveniences, property, welfare, or for the prosecution of preparedness efforts of the state and nation.
All such powers shall be exercised only in conformity with the Constitution and laws of Georgia and the United States, at the time of the exercise of such powers, it being particularly intended to authorize said corporation, in the discretion of its governing authority, to take advantage of all present and future constitutional amendments to general law and/or new laws with reference to purposes of this section. No specific enumeration herein shall be construed to affect the generality of the powers conferred.
Section 11. - [Taxing authority.]
The corporation shall have power and authority to levy and collect a tax upon all property, real and personal, within the limits of the municipality; upon banking, insurance, and other capital employed therein; upon salaries and incomes derived from property and business within the city, and upon gross receipts within the city; provided that no tax upon real or personal estate or property shall exceed 20 mills upon the value thereof, the exact tax levy to be determined by resolution of the mayor and councilmen.
Section 12. - [Authority to regulate, tax businesses, occupations, etc.]
The mayor and councilmen, by ordinance or resolution, shall have full power to levy such license and specific or occupation taxes upon the residents of the corporation, and on all those who transact or offer to transact business therein, or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein, as the governing authority may deem expedient and necessary for the safety, benefit, convenience, or advantage of the corporation; to classify businesses, occupations, professions, or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful; to require such persons to procure licenses, to compel the payment of such licenses by execution or any other lawful manner; and to make all suitable laws and regulations necessary or proper to the carrying out of the powers herein conferred, and to prescribe suitable penalties for the violation thereof.
Section 13. - [Municipal officers, agents, employees.]
The mayor and councilmen shall have authority to appoint or elect officers, agents, and employees necessary, in the opinion of said mayor and councilmen, for the proper management and operation of said corporation and to prescribe their duties and fix their salaries. Said governing authority, in its discretion, may permit any person to hold one or more of said positions or office, agency or employment. Any and all powers of the mayor and council, save the power of legislation, may be delegated to any such officer, agent, or employee.
All such officers, agents and employees shall hold their employment during the pleasure of the mayor and councilmen.
Section 14. - [Ad valorem taxes.]
All persons owning property subject to ad valorem tax shall make returns thereof at fair market value, for tax purposes, to such officer, at such times and in such form as the mayor and councilmen may direct.
The mayor and councilmen shall constitute the corporation's board of tax assessors, and it shall be their duty to assess all property for taxation and in the event of failure to make a return as prescribed, to assess a penalty of ten percent of the assessed value.
In the event of dissatisfaction on the part of any taxpayer over any such assessment, he shall, within ten days of notice of assessment have the right to arbitrate the value by selecting a disinterested party, and the mayor and councilmen select a disinterested party; and these two to select another in case of disagreement and their decision as to the value of the property to be final. The arbitrator of the complaining taxpayer must be selected within ten days of assessment notice; the arbitrator of the corporation within five days thereafter and the third arbitrator, if necessary, within the next five-day period. In the event of failure to agree upon a third arbitrator within the time specified, the selection shall be made within 20 days thereafter, by the senior judge, in point of service, of the Superior Court of Houston County.
All ad valorem taxes shall be payable on or before December 20 of the year in which levied and assessed.
The provisions of any municipal charter to the contrary notwithstanding, in determining the fair market value of property within their respective tax jurisdictions for purposes of ad valorem property taxation, municipalities shall use the fair market value finally determined for the property for county ad valorem property taxation purposes, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-352.
Editor's note— Since enactment of this section by the Georgia General Assembly, the city has entered into certain agreements with Houston County that include delegation to the county of certain powers and duties of the city included in this section.
Section 15. - [Enforcement of tax collection.]
The mayor and council shall have the right to enforce the collection of taxes and/or of any other money lawfully due the corporation, by execution issued by the governing authority or its designated officer or agent, bearing test in the name of the mayor, which execution shall be issued at the time and in the manner to be prescribed by ordinance, and sales under such executions shall be conducted as provided by law with respect to sheriff's sales.
Any officer or agent of said corporation may be authorized by the governing authority to levy any such execution or they may be levied and collected by the sheriff of Houston County. Executions shall be directed to such officers in the alternative. No injunction shall issue in arrest of such executions but contest of the legality of any such execution shall be by affidavit of illegality as provided by law.
All sales under such executions shall be conducted by the levying officer and in the method provided as to sheriff's sales; deeds to successful bidders shall be executed by the mayor and councilmen and the levying officer shall have the right, power, authority, and duty to place the successful bidder and purchaser in possession of the property. The corporation shall have the power and authority to bid and to purchase at any such sale.
Section 16. - [Control over streets, alleys, sidewalks.]
The mayor and councilmen shall have full power and direction, control over all streets, alleys, sidewalks, and street crossings and shall direct the mode, manner, and style in which they shall be opened or closed or constructed or maintained.
They shall likewise have power and authority, in their discretion, to grade, regrade, pave, repave, macadamize, remacadamize and otherwise improve for travel and drainage the streets, sidewalks, public lanes, alleys, and street crossings of the corporation, to put down curbing, guttering, and cross drains, and to otherwise improve the same, and to assess one-third of the total cost thereof against the real-estate abutting on each side of the street upon which the improvement takes place, so that the abutting real property shall bear two-thirds of the entire cost.
The mayor and councilmen shall have full authority to prescribe rules and regulations providing a method for apportioning the cost of the improvements determined upon, the issuance of executions therefor, and the method of collection thereof provided that all executions shall be levied and sales of property thereunder shall be in the manner herein this Act provided for all executions.
The corporations shall likewise have authority to prescribe methods and means of notice to owners of properties affected, and for an opportunity for hearing in protest of the contemplated improvements.
In the performance of any and all of the improvements herein provided and as may be determined upon, the mayor and councilmen shall have authority to cause such improvements to be made by corporate agencies or may contract the work to independent contractors.
Section 17. - [Lien execution.]
The liens of all executions issued by the corporation shall have the same rank and priority of payment as tax executions for municipal taxes, and all recitals contained in any execution or deed pursuant thereto shall be prima facie evidence of the facts therein recited.
Section 18. - [Construction, maintenance of public works; bond issuance.]
The governing authority shall have power and authority to order the construction, improvements, and maintenance of all public works, and without limiting this generality, including sewerage, the care and improvement of the public parks, the public buildings, the streets and bridges, and any and all utilities which the corporation may determine to own and/or operate for corporate and/or noncorporate users.
The mayor and councilmen are authorized to issue bonds of the corporation in accordance with the laws of the state in such matters provided for any of the purposes hereinabove set forth, after first calling an election and thereat obtaining the assent of the number of the qualified voters of the corporation required by law.
Section 19. - [Police court.]
A police court of said corporation is hereby created.
It shall be optional with the mayor and councilmen whether the mayor shall serve as presiding officer of the court, or whether they shall elect a recorder as such presiding officer. In the absence or disability of the presiding officer, the mayor shall appoint a councilman or any other resident of Houston County who is qualified to vote for members of the General Assembly to act as the presiding officer. All processes, summons, and all attachments and executions for fines and other writs issuing out of said court shall be issued, served, and returned as prescribed by the governing authority, bear teste in the name of the presiding officer, shall be directed to any officer or agent of the corporation, or to the sheriff of Houston County in the alternative, and served and executed by any officer or agent to whom directed.
Said court shall be held as often as necessary to clear the dockets of said court.
Said court shall have jurisdiction and authority:
(a)
To try offenses against the laws and ordinances of the municipal government and to punish for a violation of the same;
(b)
To punish witnesses for nonattendance, and to punish also any person who may counsel or advise, aid, encourage, or persuade another whose testimony is desired or material in any proceeding in said court to go or move beyond the reach of the process of the court;
(c)
To punish for any contempt of court;
(d)
Through the presiding officer to impose fines or imprisonment or both as set by city ordinance within guidelines established by general law.
The presiding officer shall be authorized to issue warrants for offenses against the laws of the state and within the limits of the corporation, which warrants may be executed by any officer or agent designated by the governing authority, and to commit the offenders to the jail of Houston County, or admit them to bail in bailable cases for their appearance at the next term of a court of competent jurisdiction to be held in and for said county.
In all cases in the police court involving a violation of the penal statutes of Georgia, where the accused is bound over to the Superior Court of Houston County for trial, or in default of bond, committed by the police court to the common jail of Houston County to await trial, the municipality shall be allowed the following costs:
Issuing warrant .....$1.25
Taking examination of defendant .....$1.25
Examining witnesses .....$0.30 each
Making out commitment .....$0.35
Summoning witnesses .....$0.30 each
Serving warrant .....$1.25
Keeping and maintaining prisoner .....$1.25 per day
Said costs shall be collected by the court in which the case is tried or triable in the same manner as other costs are collected by such court and paid over to the municipality.
The mayor and councilmen shall have full power and authority to pass all laws and ordinances, rules and regulations, necessary to secure the efficient and successful administration of the court.
The right of certiorari from the decisions and judgments of the presiding officer shall exist in all criminal cases, and such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of the judge of the Superior Court of Houston County, under the laws of the State of Georgia regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
(1981 Ga. Laws (Act No. 368), page 4019; 1991 Ga. Laws (Act No. 118), page 3928)
Editor's note— O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1(a) provides that the term "police court," when such term refers to a court of a municipal corporation is stricken whenever it appears in any general or local law of the state, and the term "municipal court" is inserted in lieu thereof. Further, the city has by ordinance modified certain provisions regarding the municipal court. See chapter 16. Also, since enactment of this section by the Georgia General Assembly, O.C.G.A. ï¿½ 36-32-1 changed all "police courts" to "municipal courts" and the city has increased the cost amounts provided in this section. In addition, O.C.G.A. ch. 32 generally has implicitly amended other parts of this section. For current provisions regarding the municipal court, refer to applicable state statutes and the relevant provisions of the Code in part II.
Section 20. - [Mayor, councilmembers serving in other municipal positions.]
Except where authorized by law, neither the mayor nor any councilmember shall hold any other elected or compensated appointive office in the city or otherwise be employed by the city or any agency thereof during the term for which he or she was elected. Members of the council holding office on January 1, 1991, are exempted from this requirement.
(1991 Ga. Laws (Act No. 118), page 3928)
Section 21. - [Additional power and authority of municipal corporation.]
In addition to the powers hereinbefore enumerated, said corporation shall have all the additional power and authority usually and properly incident to municipal corporations not in conflict with the Constitution or laws of the State of Georgia or of the United States, which now exist or may hereafter exist by law, the mayor and councilmen being expressly empowered to adopt, in their discretion, any future law applicable to municipalities of the state without the necessity of further enabling enactments by the General Assembly of Georgia.
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE - GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Page Act No.  Section
this Charter
1958 2413 137 3
1963 3323 486 1—21
1966 3047 333 4A
1967 2521 211 3
4A
6A
1968 2765 893 3
3A
5
1971 2466 194 8
1974 4063 3
1981 4019 368 19
1985 4830 475 6
1991 3928 118 19, 20
