ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Penalties.
Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalties as provided in section 1-9 as may be imposed by the city court and, in addition, to suspension or revocation of his license by the city council, as provided in this chapter.
Sec. 10-2. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine, or fortified wine as defined in this section.
Applicant means any one or more persons applying for a city license or renewal thereof.
Application means those forms required by the city to be completed by persons applying for an original license or a renewal license under this chapter.
Barrell means 53 gallons.
Beer means malt beverage as that term is defined herein.
Brewer means a manufacture of malt beverages.
Brewery means a place where malt beverages are manufactured or brewed.
Church means any place of permanent public religious worship and shall exist if a building permit therefor has been obtained and construction of the church building has commenced or substantial materials or supplies for its construction have been moved to the site where it is to be built.
Cocktail room means a room or establishment operated by a licensed distilled spirits manufacturer where distilled spirits manufactured on the premises are served by the drink.
Craft beer means an alcoholic beverage that is obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing six percent or more alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown stout, lager, beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Distilled spirits means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all fortified wines.
Distillery means a facility that manufacturers distilled spirits.
Farm winery means a domestic winery located on premises, a substantial portion of which is used for agricultural purposes, including the cultivation of grapes, berries, or fruits to be utilized in the manufacture or production of wine by the winery, or domestic winery that:
(1)
Makes at least 40 percent of its annual production from agricultural produce grown in this state;
(2)
Is owned and operated by persons who are engaged in the production of a substantial portion of the state agricultural produce used in its annual production, and for this purpose, such production of a substantial portion of such state agricultural produce shall be determined by the commissioner of agriculture of the state; and
(3)
Produces less than 100,000 gallons per year.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes, either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "fortified wine" includes, but is not limited to, brandy.
Growler means a properly sanitized reusable bottle made of glass or other material customary to the industry provided that the bottle is capable of being sealed with a screw cap and then sealed with a plastic collar over the screw for the purpose of complying with open container laws, and further provided that the bottle does not exceed 64 ounces and is filled by a licensee or employee of the licensed establishment with craft draft beer from a keg for off-premises consumption.
Hotel means every building or structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed, sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and guests, in which 50 or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of the guests, and having one or more dining rooms having a seating capacity of 100 persons or more where meals are regularly served to the guests. Motels meeting the qualifications set out herein for the term "hotel," shall be classified as hotels for the purpose of this chapter.
Immediate family shall include all persons related to each other within the first degree of consanguinity and affinity as computed according to the canon law.
License means the formal approval granted or issued by the city to a licensee for the sale of alcoholic beverages within the city.
Licensee means the individual or business entity to which the license is issued.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion of decoction of barley, malt, hops or any other similar product or any combination of the products in water, containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer and strong beer. The term "malt beverage" does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Manufacturer means any maker, producer or bottler of an alcoholic beverage.
The term shall include, but in no way be limited to, a brewer of beer or malt beverages, a winery that produces wine, or a distiller of distilled spirits.
Outdoor recreational store tap room means:
(1)
A tap room for the retail sale of craft beer and wine for consumption on the premises by the drink, as well as growlers and wine by the package under the following conditions:
a.
The tap room must be operated by a retail store for outdoor recreation and which shall have as its primary activity the retail sale of outdoor recreational apparel and gear, crafted goods (soaps, candles, etc.), packaged food, supplies and equipment for outdoor recreational activities. This primary activity shall be family oriented in nature, generally meaning a use which attracts a range of individuals from all age groups.
b.
No less than 80 percent of the gross revenue of the business shall be derived from the retail sale of outdoor recreational apparel and gear and related merchandise (consumption on the premises sales must be 20 percent or less of the business' gross revenue.)
c.
The outdoor recreational store must be located in the Central Business District (CBD).
d.
It shall be unlawful for an outdoor recreational store tap room to sell or have on the premises spirituous liquors or packaged malt beverages.
e.
An outdoor recreational store tap room shall be allowed to sell growlers containing craft draft beer, as long as they follow provisions as to growlers within the Jasper Alcoholic Beverage Ordinance.
f.
Shall be allowed to serve craft draft beers by the glass for consumption on the premises only during the same hours as are permitted for the sale of "malt beverages and wine package sales." Package sales of craft draft beers other than craft draft beer growlers is prohibited. Malt beverages fees shall apply for consumption on the premises of craft draft beers.
g.
Only the licensee or an employee shall dispense craft draft beers from a tap. Free samples of wine or craft draft beers shall not exceed five ounces of wine and eight ounces of craft draft beer nor shall any one individual be offered more than seven samples within a calendar day.
h.
Sampling or tasting of wine or craft draft beers is only permitted within designated portions of the premises that is the tap room.
Outlet means the definite structure, whether a room, shop, store, building, restaurant, or club, in which activities permitted by this chapter are conducted.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel, or other original consumer container.
Premises means not only the structure, wherein an outlet for sale of alcoholic beverages is operated under a city license, but shall include all of the lot where on the outlet is located, except where the outlet is located in a hotel or shopping center.
Prepared food means any food item or meal that is assembled, created, or cooked by a chef or cooks in a full service kitchen on the premises and served to the customer who customarily eats it with eating utensils. Prepackaged food items, hot or cold, are not recognized as prepared meals because they are not made or assembled on premises.
Properly sanitized means the container was: sanitized per the instructions of Star San sanitizer or any product that is the equivalent of Star San sanitizer; or, placed in an oven at a temperature of 340 degrees or higher for at least 60 minutes; or, washed in an automatic dishwasher for a full wash and heat dry cycle with or without the addition of detergent agents; or, sanitized in conformance with the sanitation requirements for glassware used in restaurants as set forth in the rules or regulations of the Pickens County Health Department.
Restaurant means any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the public as a place where meals are served and where meals are actually and regularly prepared and served, without sleeping accommodations; the place seating a minimum of 50 people and holding a certificate of approval from the county health department. At least one meal per day shall be served at least six days per week, with the exception of holidays, vacations, and periods for redecorating/repair; and the serving of the meals shall be the principal business conducted, with the serving of alcoholic beverages to be consumed on the premises as only incidental thereto.
Retail consumption dealer means any person who sells distilled spirits for consumption on the premises at retail, only to consumers and not for resale.
Retailer or retail dealer means, except for distilled spirits, any person who sells alcoholic beverages, either in unbroken packages or for consumption on the premises, at retail only to consumers and hot for resale. With respect to distilled spirits, the term "retailer" or "retail dealer" means any person who sells distilled spirits in unbroken packages at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
Tap room means a place on the premises of a retail store for outdoor recreation where malt beverages and wine by the drink, growlers and wine by the package are offered for sale.
Tasting room means an outlet for the promotion of a farm winery's wine by providing samples of such wine to the public and for the sale of such wine at retail for consumption on the premises and for sale in closed packages for consumption off the premises. Samples of wine may be given on a complimentary basis or for a fee.
Wholesaler or wholesale dealer means any person who sells alcoholic beverages to other wholesale dealers, to retail dealers or retail consumption dealers.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, which is made from fruits, berries or grapes, either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "wine" includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, etc. The term "wine" does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at the point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to this definition.
Wine specialty shop means a retail establishment which has both package sales of wine and limited consumption on the premises of wine or craft draft beers, cigars and wine-related merchandise under the following conditions:
(1)
No less than 60 percent of the gross revenue of the business shall be derived from the package sale of table wine, fortified wines, port, sherry and/or wine accessories or other wine-related merchandise allowed to be sold in the Central Business District (CBD); (consumption on the premises sales must be 40 percent or less of the business' gross revenue.)
(2)
It shall be unlawful for a wine specialty shop to sell or have on the premises spirituous liquors or packaged malt beverages.
(3)
A wine specialty shop shall be allowed to sell growlers containing craft draft beer, as long as they follow provisions as to growlers within the Jasper Alcoholic Beverage Ordinance.
(4)
Shall be allowed to serve craft draft beers by the glass for consumption on the premises only during the same hours as are permitted for the sale of "malt beverages and wine package sales." Package sales of craft draft beers other than craft draft beer growlers is prohibited. Malt beverages fees shall apply for consumption on the premises of craft draft beers.
(5)
Only the licensee or an employee shall dispense craft draft beers from a tap. Free samples of wine or craft draft beers shall not exceed five ounces of wine and eight ounces of craft draft beer nor shall any one individual be offered more than seven samples within a calendar day.
(6)
Sampling or tasting of wine or craft draft beers is only permitted within designated portions of the premises.
(7)
A cigar smoking room shall be allowed on the premises which shall be separate from any tasting room, but wine and craft draft beer may be served in the cigar smoking room.
Zoning means the zoning classifications as approved by the city.
(Code 1979, § 37-1.2; Ord. of 7-2-2018 (1.A.) ; Ord. No. 2021-14 , § 1(a), 6-7-2021; Ord. No. 2021-20 , § 1(a), 9-13-2021; Ord. No. 2022-02 , § 1(a), 4-4-2022; Ord. No. 2022-05 , § 1(a), 5-2-2022; Ord. No. 2022-10 , §§ 1(a), 2(a), 7-11-2022)
State Law reference— Similar definitions, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
Secs. 10-3—10-22. - Reserved.
