ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-53. - Job descriptions.
Certain offices are addressed specifically in this article. Job descriptions for other city officers and for employees shall be kept on file in the city clerk's office.
(Code 1979, § 3-502)
Sec. 2-54. - Duties of officers generally.
Each officer shall perform all duties required of his office by state law, the charter, and this Code, any such other duties not in conflict therewith as may be required by the mayor.
(Code 1979, § 3-104)
Sec. 2-55. - Personnel manual.
A personnel policy manual shall be kept on file in the city clerk's office.
(Code 1979, § 3-503)
State Law reference— Residence prohibited as a condition of employment, O.C.G.A. § 45-2-5 et seq.
Sec. 2-56. - Bonds.
Except as otherwise provided by law, the mayor and council may require any department head, city official, or employee, before entering upon the discharge of his duties to give good and sufficient bond in any amount decided by the mayor and council. Said bond shall be payable to the city for the faithful performance of said duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriations, or unlawful expenditures in office. Said surety bonds shall be obtained from a surety company licensed to do business in the state and approved by the mayor and council. The premiums thereon shall be paid by the city.
(Code 1979, § 3-104)
Secs. 2-57—2-85. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MAYOR

Sec. 2-86. - Duties.
(a)
Officiating functions. The mayor shall have the following duties:
(1)
Presiding at meetings. To preside at all meetings of the city council, but the mayor shall not be allowed to vote at such meetings except in the case of a tie vote by the council on any question, and the mayor shall not have the privilege of debate except when the rules have been duly suspended for that purpose;
(2)
Appointment of standing committees. To appoint at the first meeting each year, or as soon thereafter as expedient, standing committees for that year; but the mayor may at any time alter the committees and make such changes as the interest of the city may require;
(3)
Appointment of officers and employees. To appoint, with the advice and consent of the city council, all officers and employees of the city whose election or appointment is not otherwise provided for;
(4)
Dismissal, suspension, and discipline of officers and employees. To dismiss, suspend, or discipline for cause, with the advice of the city manager, all officers and employees under his control provided that for the purposes of this section the term "cause" shall be construed to mean:
a.
Negligence or inefficiency in performing the duties of the position held;
b.
Unfitness to perform assigned duties;
c.
Insubordination;
d.
Misconduct;
e.
Conduct reflecting discredit on the department;
f.
Failure to report for work without justifiable cause;
g.
Chronic absenteeism; or
h.
Political activity in violation of municipal regulations.
(5)
Executing legal documents. To sign and execute all contracts, deeds, and bonds of the city duly authorized by the mayor and council; and
(6)
Other duties. To perform all duties assigned to the mayor in the city charter or as may be assigned from time to time by the city council.
(b)
Authority supplemented acting as city manager. In the event the mayor is appointed as city manager, with consent of the city council, he shall have all powers and duties associated with the office of city manager in addition to his powers and duties as mayor.
(Code 1979, § 3-301)
Sec. 2-87. - Powers.
The mayor shall have the following powers:
(1)
Rule making. To prescribe such rules and regulations as may be deemed necessary or expedient for the conduct of administrative agencies subject to his authority, and to revoke, suspend or amend any rule or regulation of the administrative service by whomever prescribed;
(2)
Investigation. To investigate and to examine or inquire into, either by himself or by any officer or person designated for the purpose by him, the affairs or operation of any department, including the power to employ consultants and professional counsel when so authorized by the council to aid in such investigations examinations or inquiries;
(3)
Overriding. To set aside any action taken by a department head and to supersede him in the functions of his office;
(4)
Delegation. To direct any department to perform the work for another department, and to authorize any department head or office responsible to him to appoint and remove subordinates serving under such person; and
(5)
Other powers. To exercise such other power and authority that may be conferred on the mayor by the city charter or otherwise by law.
(Code 1979, § 3-302)
Sec. 2-88. - Mayor pro tempore.
During a temporary absence or disability of the mayor, the city council shall elect one of its number to act as mayor pro tem, who during such absence or disability shall possess the powers of mayor.
(Code 1979, § 3-303)
Sec. 2-89. - Acting mayor.
In the event of a vacancy in the office of mayor the council may appoint a person duly qualified to serve as mayor until the vacancy is filled at a regular or special election as provided by law.
(Code 1979, § 3-304)
Secs. 2-90—2-106. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CITY MANAGER

Sec. 2-107. - Mayor may serve as city manager.
The mayor may be appointed as city manager, with consent of the city council, and, in that capacity, shall have all powers and duties associated with the office of city manager in addition to his power and duties as mayor.
Sec. 2-108. - Qualifications and appointment.
The city manager shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the city council. Such person shall be selected solely on the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to his knowledge of an actual experience in municipal management. The city manager need not be a resident or the city or the state at the time of appointment.
(Code 1979, § 3-401)
Sec. 2-109. - Powers and duties.
The city manager shall have the power, and it shall be his duty to:
(1)
See that all laws and ordinances of the city are faithfully enforced;
(2)
Hire and discharge for cause all employees of the city not authorized to be appointed or elected by city council, provided such power to appoint or discharge may be delegated to any other official or employee by the city manager;
(3)
Fill all appointive offices of the city, except where otherwise provided by law, and to report such appointments or removals to the city council as soon as possible after the action is taken;
(4)
Supervise and direct the official conduct of all appointive city officers;
(5)
Exercise supervision and control over all departments and divisions of the city, except where otherwise provided by law;
(6)
Attend all meetings of the city council with the right to take part in all discussions but not to vote;
(7)
Recommend to the city council for adoption such measures, as he may deem necessary and expedient;
(8)
Prepare and submit to the city council prior to the beginning of each fiscal year a budget of proposed expenditures for the ensuing year, showing in as much detail as practicable the amounts allotted to each department of the city government, and the reasons for such estimated expenditures;
(9)
Keep current accounts showing at all times the fiscal condition of the city, including the current and anticipated expenses, appropriations, cash on hand, and anticipated revenue of all municipal funds and accounts;
(10)
Keep the councilmembers fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the city;
(11)
Fix all salaries and compensation of city employees lawfully employed by him, subject to the approval of the council;
(12)
Examine all proposed contracts to which the city may be a party, and sign on behalf of the city any contract authorized by the city council excepting where the council directs that some other officer shall do so;
(13)
Supervise the performance of all contracts made for work done for the city;
(14)
Make all purchases of supplies, material, and equipment for the city and see that the same are received as contracted for, provided that if a purchase in excess of $5,000.00 is involved, prior approval of city council shall be necessary and opportunity for competitive bids shall be given after reasonable advertisement thereof;
(15)
Conduct all sales that the council may authorize of personal property of the city which has become unnecessary or unfit for the city to use;
(16)
Keep a current inventory showing all real and personal property of the city and its location;
(17)
See to the publication of all notices, ordinances, or other documents required by law to be published;
(18)
Prepare for the election officials all notices, ballots, and election supplies necessary in connection with municipal elections;
(19)
Prepare and have custody of all municipal records required by law to be kept by the city and not by a specific officer; and
(20)
Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by this Code, or required by ordinance or resolution of the city council.
(Code 1979, § 3-402)
Sec. 2-110. - Removal.
The city manager shall serve at the pleasure of the city council and may be removed for office at any time by a vote of the majority of the members of city council.
(Code 1979, § 3-403)
Secs. 2-111—2-133. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - CITY ATTORNEY

Sec. 2-134. - Appointment; qualifications; oath; compensation.
The city attorney shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the city council, and shall serve until a successor is appointed and has qualified. No person shall be so appointed unless he is a member in good standing of the state bar and has been actively engaged in the practice of law for at least three years preceding his appointment. Before entering upon the duties of his office, the city attorney shall take the oath prescribed by this Code for city officers. The city attorney shall receive compensation in the amount established from time to time by the city council.
(Code 1979, § 3-501)
Sec. 2-135. - Powers and duties.
The city attorney shall be the legal advisor and representative of the city and in such capacity shall:
(1)
Advise the council or its committees or any city officer, when thereto requested, upon all legal questions arising in the conduct of city business;
(2)
Prepare or revise ordinances when so requested by the council or any committees thereof, and keep the Code of Ordinances of the city up-to-date and properly indexed;
(3)
Give his opinion upon any legal matter or questions submitted to him by the council, or any of its committees, or by any city officer;
(4)
Attend all council meetings in their entirety for the purpose of giving the council any legal advice requested by its members;
(5)
Prepare for execution all contracts and instruments to which the city is a party and approve, as to form, all bonds required to be submitted to the city;
(6)
Prepare, when authorized by the council, all charges and complaints against, and appear in the municipal court in the prosecution of every person charged with a violation of this Code or of a city ordinance or of any regulations adopted under authority of the charter, and see to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the city;
(7)
Defend any and all suits and actions at law or equity brought against the city, unless otherwise directed by city council;
(8)
Make immediate report to the mayor and council of the outcome of any litigation in which the city has an interest;
(9)
Make an annual report to the mayor and council of all pending litigation in which the city has an interest and the status thereof;
(10)
Keep complete and accurate records of the following, which record shall forever remain the property of the city, including:
a.
All suits in which the city had or has an interest, giving the names of the parties, the nature of the action, the disposition of the case or its status, if pending, and the briefs of counsel; and
b.
All written opinions prepared by the city attorney and all certificates or abstracts of titles furnished by him to the city, or any department or official thereof; and
(11)
Render such other legal services as may be required by the mayor or council.
(Code 1979, § 3-501)
Secs. 2-136—2-153. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - ETHICS

Sec. 2-154. - Prohibited conduct.
Public officials and employees of the city shall treat all citizens with courtesy, impartiality, fairness and equality under the law, and shall avoid both actual and potential conflicts between their private self-interest and the public interest. Prohibited conduct of each such official and employee shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Granting or making available to any person any special consideration, treatment, advantage, or favor beyond that which it is the general practice to grant or make available to the public at large;
(2)
Requesting, using, or permitting the use of any publicly owned or publicly supported property, vehicle, equipment, labor, or service for the personal convenience or the private advantage of himself or any other person, except as otherwise allowed by law;
(3)
Participating in the deliberation of or voting on any matter involving his financial or personal interest;
(4)
Engaging in private employment with, or rendering services for, any private person who has business transactions with the city, unless he has made full public disclosure of the nature and extent of such employment or services;
(5)
Appearing on behalf of any private person, other than himself, before any public body in the city;
(6)
Accepting any gift whether in the form of money, thing, favor, loan, or promise, that would not be offered or given to him if he were not an official or employee;
(7)
Disclosing any confidential information concerning any official or employee, or any other person, or any property or governmental affairs of the city, without prior formal authorization of the governing body;
(8)
Using or permitting the use of confidential information to advance the financial or personal interest of himself or any other person; or appointing or voting for the appointment of any person related to him by blood or marriage to fill an office, position, employment, or duty when the salary, wages, pay, or compensation is to be paid out of public funds.
(Code 1979, § 3-102)
Sec. 2-155. - Hearings and determinations.
Upon the sworn complaint of any person alleging facts which if true would constitute a violation of this section, the council shall conduct a public bearing at which the accused shall be given an opportunity to be heard, either personally or through counsel. At the conclusion of said hearing, the council shall, in written findings of fact and conclusions based thereon, make a determination concerning the propriety of the conduct of the official or employee in question.
(Code 1979, § 3-102)
State Law reference— Ethics in Government Act, O.C.G.A. § 21-5-1 et seq.
Secs. 2-156—2-178. - Reserved.
