Chapter 50 - PLANNING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Regional development centers, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-30 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 50-1—50-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PLANNING AND ZONING POLICY[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— The Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 50-19. - Purpose.
The county zoning ordinance, set forth in appendix A to this Code, will regulate the location and height of buildings and structures; the density of population; the size of yards and other open spaces; the use of land, buildings and structures for industry, commerce, agriculture, recreation, residence public activities and other purposes; create districts for such purposes and establish boundaries; define terms; methods for administration, amendment and enforcement as well as penalties for violating; and provides for zoning appeals.
(Code 2004, § 54-31; Policy of 9-15-1995)
Sec. 50-20. - Zoning districts.
The unincorporated areas of the county shall be divided into zoning districts as designated in the county zoning ordinance.
(Code 2004, § 54-32; Policy of 9-15-1995)
Secs. 50-21—50-43. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR CALLING AND CONDUCTING ZONING HEARINGS

Sec. 50-44. - Petition for rezoning.
A property owner, the planning commission, or the board of commissioners may petition for rezoning. An application shall be submitted to the county clerk and the appropriate fee shall be paid.
(Code 2004, § 54-51; Policy of 9-15-1995)
Sec. 50-45. - Notice of rezoning petition.
The county shall place legal notices in the newspaper of general circulation within the county of the rezoning petition at least 15 days but not more than 45 days prior to the required public hearings on the rezoning proposal. Also, a public notice sign shall be placed on the subject property. The notice will state the time, place and purpose of the hearing.
(Code 2004, § 54-52; Policy of 9-15-1995)
Sec. 50-46. - Public hearing.
The county planning commission shall hold a public hearing on a rezoning petition and make recommendations to the board of commissioners. The board of commissioners shall hold a public hearing on a rezoning proposal and make a final decision on the rezoning request. If the zoning application is denied by the board of commissioners, reapplication for rezoning may not be heard for 12 months from the date of the initial denial. A rezoning case can be contested in the superior court within 30 days of the zoning decision.
(Code 2004, § 54-53; Policy of 9-15-1995)
Secs. 50-47—50-65. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - HEARINGS BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

Sec. 50-66. - Sign up required for hearing.
All persons who wish to address the board of commissioners at a hearing on a proposed zoning decision under consideration by the board of commissioners shall first sign up on a form to be provided by the county prior to the commencement of the hearing.
(Code 2004, § 54-71; Policy of 9-15-1995)
Sec. 50-67. - Hearing procedures.
(a)
The board of commissioners or its designee will read a proposed zoning decision under consideration and the departmental reviews pertaining thereto prior to receiving public input on such proposed zoning decision. Proposed zoning decisions shall be called in the order in which they were filed.
(b)
The board of commissioners or its designee shall call each person who has signed up to speak on the zoning decision before the board of commissioners in the order in which the persons have signed up to speak, except that the applicant shall speak first. Prior to speaking, the speaker will identify himself and state his current address. Only those persons who signed up to speak prior to the commencement of the hearings shall be entitled to speak, unless two-thirds of the members of the board of commissioners present at the hearing allow the person to speak to the zoning decision.
(c)
Each speaker shall be allowed five minutes to address the board of commissioners concerning the zoning decision under consideration, unless the board of commissioners, by two-thirds vote of the reading of the proposed zoning decision, vote to allow additional time in which to address the board of commissioners on such proposed zoning decision. The speaker may initially use all of the time allocated to him to speak or he may speak and reserve a portion of his allotted time for rebuttal. One member of the board of commissioners shall be designated as the timekeeper to record the time expended by each speaker.
(d)
Each speaker shall speak only to the merits of the proposed zoning decision under consideration and shall address his remarks only to the members of the board of commissioners. Each speaker shall refrain from personal attacks on any other speaker or from discussing facts or opinions irrelevant to the proposed zoning decision under consideration. The chairman may limit or refuse a speaker the right to continue, if the speaker, after first being cautioned, continues to violate this subsection.
(e)
Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the chairman from conducting the hearing in an orderly and decorous manner to ensure that the public hearing on a proposed zoning decision is conducted in a fair and orderly manner.
(Code 2004, § 54-72; Policy of 9-15-1995)
Secs. 50-68—50-92. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - HEARINGS BEFORE THE PLANNING COMMISSION

Sec. 50-93. - Sign up required for hearing.
All persons who wish to address the planning commission at a zoning hearing under consideration by the planning commission shall first sign up on a form to be provided by the planning commission prior to the commencement of the hearing.
(Code 2004, § 54-73; Policy of 9-15-1995)
Sec. 50-94. - Hearing procedures.
(a)
The secretary or chairman will read the proposed zoning under consideration, and the departmental reviews pertaining thereto, if any, prior to receiving public input on the proposed zoning. Speakers shall be called in the order in which they were filed.
(b)
The secretary or chairman of the planning commission shall then call each person who has signed up to speak before the planning commission in the order in which the persons have signed up to speak, except that the applicant shall speak first. Prior to speaking, the speaker will identify himself and state his current address. Only those persons who signed up to speak prior to the commencement of the hearing shall be entitled to speak, unless two-thirds of the members of the planning commission present at the hearing allow the person to speak to the appeal.
(c)
Each speaker shall speak only to the merits of the proposed zoning under consideration and shall address his remarks only to the members of the planning board. Each speaker shall refrain from personal attacks on any other speaker or from discussing facts or opinions irrelevant to the proposed zoning under consideration. The chairman may limit or refuse a speaker the right to continue, if the speaker, after first being cautioned, continues to violate this subsection.
(d)
Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the chairman from conducting the hearing in an orderly and decorous manner to ensure that the public hearing on the zoning is conducted in a fair and orderly manner.
(Code 2004, § 54-74; Policy of 9-15-1995)
Secs. 50-95—50-116. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - ZONING STANDARDS

Sec. 50-117. - Findings.
The county planning commission and the board of commissioners find that the following standards are relevant in balancing the public interest in promoting the public health, safety or general welfare against the right of the property owner to use his property:
(1)
Does the proposed zoning classification promote the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the county?
(2)
The existing uses of the subject property and adjacent and near properties.
(3)
The current zoning of the subject property and adjacent or near properties.
(4)
The extent to which property values are diminished by the present zoning restriction.
(5)
The extent to which the restrictions diminishing the property's values promotes the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the public.
(6)
The relative gain to the public compared to the extent of hardship imposed upon the individual property owner (in retaining the current zoning designation).
(7)
The suitability of the subject property for the zoned purposes.
(8)
The history of the use of the subject property considered in the context of land developments in the vicinity of the property.
(9)
Conformity with the county comprehensive plan.
(Code 2004, § 54-111; Policy of 9-15-1995)
Sec. 50-118. - Planning commission responsibility; members.
The primary purpose of the county planning commission is to research, review, and make recommendations to the board of commissioners on rezoning applications, special exception requests, zoning ordinance amendments and general planning. The county planning commission consists of members from each voting district in the county appointed by the board of commissioners and regular meetings are held the third Thursday of each month.
(Code 2004, § 54-112; Policy of 9-15-1995)
Sec. 50-119. - Zoning administrator.
The zoning administrator shall administer and enforce the county zoning ordinance, set forth in appendix A to this Code, and is given the authority and responsibility to enforce all provisions of the zoning ordinance under the directions of the board of commissioners.
(Code 2004, § 54-113; Policy of 9-15-1995)
Secs. 50-120—50-159. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PLANNING COMMISSION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Conflicts of interest in zoning actions, O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-1 et seq.; code of ethics for members of boards, commissions and authorities, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-3.

Sec. 50-160. - Established.
The board of commissioners establishes the county planning commission to be governed by the provisions of this article.
(Code 2004, § 54-161; Ord. of 6-8-1982)
Sec. 50-161. - Membership.
The county planning commission shall consist of ten members, two each from the five commission districts. These members shall be appointed by the board of commissioners and shall be residents of the county.
(Ord. No. 2013-001, § 54-162, 5-14-2013)
Sec. 50-162. - Term of office.
The terms of the members of the county planning commission shall be for five years, except in the appointment of the first county planning commission. Initial terms shall be for one year, two years, three years, four years, and five years. Any vacancy in the appointed membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the board of commissioners which shall also have the authority to remove any appointed member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All appointed members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
(Code 2004, § 54-163; Ord. of 6-8-1982, § 2)
Sec. 50-163. - Organization, rules and staff.
The county planning commission shall elect its chairman and vice-chairman from among its members. The term of chairman and vice-chairman shall be for one year with eligibility for reelection. The planning commission shall appoint a secretary, who may be an officer or employee of the county. The planning commission shall make its own rules of procedure and determine its time of meeting. All meetings of the planning commission shall be open to the public and all records of planning commission meetings shall be made public. The planning commission, by and with the consent of the board of commissioners, may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its works, and any contract with consultants for such services as it may require. However, no contract calling for the expenditure of any funds shall be entered into by the planning commission without the express consent of the county commission. The planning commission shall in no event incur any liability that will exceed the amounts appropriated for that purpose by the county.
(Code 2004, § 54-164; Ord. of 6-8-1982, § 3)
Sec. 50-164. - Powers and duties.
From and after the time when the planning commission shall have organized and selected its officers, and shall have adopted its rules of procedure, then the planning commission shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities set forth in the General Planning and Zoning Enabling Act of 1957, as amended.
(Code 2004, § 54-165; Ord. of 6-8-1982, § 4)
Secs. 50-165—50-181. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - RESOLUTION OF INTER-GOVERNMENTAL LAND USE CLASSIFICATION DISPUTES

Sec. 50-182. - Process.
The following process for resolving land use disputes shall be implemented:
(1)
Prior to initiating any formal annexation activities, a city will notify the county of a proposed annexation and provide information on location of property, size of area, and proposed land use or zoning classification (if applicable) of the property. Within 30 days following receipt of this information, the county will forward to the city a statement either:
a.
Indicating that the county has no objection to the proposed land use for the property; or
b.
Describing its bona fide objection to the city's proposed land use classification, providing supporting evidence, and listing any possible stipulations or conditions that would alleviate the county's objection.
(2)
If the county has no objection to the city's proposed land use or zoning classification, the city is free to proceed with the annexation. If the county fails to respond to the city's notice in writing within the deadline, the city is free to proceed with the annexation and the county loses its right to invoke the dispute resolution process, or object to land use changes after the annexation.
(3)
If the county notifies the city that it has a bona fide land use classification objection, the city will respond to the county in writing within 30 days of receiving the county's objection by either:
a.
Agreeing to implement the county's stipulations and conditions and thereby resolve the county's objection.
b.
Agreeing with the county and stopping action on the proposed annexation.
c.
Disagreeing that the county's objection are bona fide, the city will initiate a joint meeting of the respective governments to resolve the issue.
(4)
If the city initiates mediation, the city and county will agree on a mediator, mediation schedule and determine participants in the mediation. The city and county agree to share equally any costs associated with the mediation.
(5)
An annexation proposal shall not be effective until any bona fide land use classification objections raised by the county are resolved pursuant to this section.
(6)
The final resolution of any recommendation of a land use classification will be accorded to the board of commissioners considering the annexation. In cases of land use disputes not related to annexation proposals, the final resolution of a land use dispute will be accorded to the jurisdiction in which the subject property is located. Notwithstanding, a government may seek declaratory judgment in a court of proper jurisdiction pursuant to a land use decision.
(Code 2004, § 54-201; Ord. of 5-12-1998, § 1)
