Chapter 12 - TAXATION AND REVENUE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, Ch. 3; animals, Ch. 4; buildings and building regulations, Ch. 5; business regulations, Ch. 6.
State Law reference— County taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-220.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 12-1—12-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authorization to levy and collect a business license tax from depository financial institutions, O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.

Sec. 12-26. - Business license tax—Imposed.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, there is hereby levied for the year 1984, and for each year thereafter, an annual business license tax upon all depository financial institutions located within the county at a rate of twenty-five hundredths (0.25) percent of the gross receipts of such depository financial institutions. Gross receipts shall mean gross receipts as defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93. Depository financial institutions shall mean state and national banks, state building and loan associations and federal savings and loan associations.
(Res. of 12-6-83(2), § 1; Res. of 7-19-94)
Sec. 12-27. - Same—Minimum.
The minimum annual amount of business license tax due from any depository financial institution pursuant to this article shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
(Res. of 12-6-83(2), § 2)
Sec. 12-28. - Filing of return.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(c), each depository financial institution subject to this article shall file a return of its gross receipts with the board of commissioners on March first of the year following the year in which such gross receipts are measured. Such return shall be in the manner and in the form prescribed by the commissioner of the department of revenue based on the allocation method set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(d). The board of commissioners shall assess and collect the tax levied pursuant to this resolution based upon the information provided in such return.
(Res. of 12-6-83(2), § 3)
Sec. 12-29. - Due date of taxes.
Taxes levied pursuant to this article shall be due no later than thirty (30) days after filing of the return prescribed by section 12-28 unless extended by the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 12-6-83(2), § 4)
Secs. 12-30—12-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - INSURERS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Taxation of insurance companies based on gross direct premiums received from insurance policies within the unincorporated areas of counties, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 4, par. 1(c); county tax on other than life insurance companies based on gross direct premiums, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2.

Sec. 12-51. - Gross premiums tax on insurance other than life insurance.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2, there is hereby levied for the year 1984, and for each year thereafter, an annual tax upon each insurer doing insurance business within the unincorporated area of the county in an amount equal to two and one-half (2½) percent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year on all insurance, other than life insurance, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(2), (3), (4) and (5). Gross direct premiums shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2(a).
(Res. of 12-6-83(1), § 1)
Sec. 12-52. - Administrative provisions.
The clerk of the county is hereby directed to forward a duly certified copy of this resolution to the insurance commissioner within ten (10) days of its enactment.
(Res. of 12-6-83(1), § 2)
Secs. 12-53—12-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - HOTEL AND MOTEL EXCISE TAX[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— County and municipal excise taxes on rooms, lodgings and accommodations, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.; operators of hotels, inns and roadhouses, O.C.G.A. § 43-21-1 et seq.

Sec. 12-61. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Due date means from the 20th day after the close of the monthly period for which tax is to be computed.
Guest room means a room occupied, or intended, arranged or designed for occupancy, by one or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use.
Hotel means any structure or any portion of a structure, including any lodging house, rooming house, dormitory, Turkish bath, bachelor hotel, studio hotel, motel, motor hotel, auto court, inn, public club or private club containing guest rooms and which is occupied, or is intended or designed for occupancy, by guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor or otherwise. It does not include any jail, hospital, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, prison, detention or other building in which human beings are housed and detained under legal restraint.
Monthly period means the calendar months of any year.
Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Occupant means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right to use or possess any room in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use or other agreement, or otherwise.
Operator means any person operating a hotel in the county including, but not limited to, the owner or proprietor of such premises, lessee, sublessee, and lender in possession, licensee or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
Permanent resident means any occupant as of a given date who has or shall have occupied or has or shall have the right of occupancy of any guest room in a hotel for at least ten (10) consecutive days next preceding such date.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, nonprofit corporation or cooperative nonprofit membership, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, the plural as well as the singular number, excepting the United States of America, the state, and any political subdivision of either, upon which the county is without power to impose the tax provided in this article.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Return means any return filed or required to be filed as provided in this article.
Tax means the tax imposed by this article.
Tax commissioner means the tax commissioner of the county.
(Ord. of 9-18-07, § I)
Sec. 12-62. - Administration.
(a)
Authority of tax commissioner. The tax commissioner shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the collection of the tax imposed by this article.
(b)
Records required from operators, etc.; form. Every operator renting guest rooms in this county to a person shall keep such records, receipts, invoices, and other pertinent papers in such form as the tax commissioner may require.
(c)
Examination of records; audits. The tax commissioner or any person authorized in writing by the tax commissioner may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any operator renting guest rooms to a person and any operator liable for the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(d)
Authority to require reports; contents. In administration of the provisions of this article, the tax commissioner may require the filing of reports by any person or class of persons having in such person's possession or custody information relating to rentals of guest rooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the tax commissioner when required by the tax commissioner, and shall set forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the date or dates of occupancy, and such other information as the tax commissioner may require.
(Ord. of 9-18-07, § II)
Sec. 12-63. - Purpose.
The county hereby finds, determines and declares that:
(1)
The encouragement, development, growth and expansion of tourism and conventions within the county are important to the economy of the county and to the general welfare of its citizens;
(2)
The county should be a tourism and convention center of the state and should have the financial ability to attract and promote tourism and conventions, and to provide the necessary public facilities to compete in the domestic and international travel and convention markets; and
(3)
The tourism and convention industry should pay for the delivery of the services and facilities requested by them to promote and attract visitors and convention delegates.
(Ord. of 9-18-07, § III)
Sec. 12-64. - Imposition and rate of tax; distribution.
(a)
The General Assembly enacted O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-50 et. seq. so that:
(1)
Each county and municipality in this state shall be authorized to levy certain excise taxes as hereinafter provided in this article; and
(2)
Funds be made available for the purposes of promoting, attracting, stimulating, and developing conventions and tourism in the counties and municipalities and for the provision of other local government services.
(b)
Pursuant to the authority granted by Article IX, Section II, Paragraph VI of the Constitution of this state, there are created within this state 159 special districts. One such district shall exist within the geographical boundaries of each county, and the territory of each such district shall include all of the territory within the county except territory located within the boundaries of any municipality which imposes an excise tax on charges to the public for rooms, lodgings, and accommodations under this article (see O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.1.)
(c)
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this article, the rate of taxation, the manner of imposition, payment, and collection of the tax, and all other procedures related to the tax shall be as provided by each county and municipality electing to exercise the powers conferred by this article (see O.C.G.A. § 48-13-53).
(d)
There is hereby levied and there shall be paid a tax of six (6) percent of the rent for every occupancy of a guest room in a hotel in the county, pursuant to O.C.G.A. 48-3-51(a)(3.4).
(1)
The county shall retain three (3) percent of the total receipts of said tax to defray the costs of administration.
(2)
The county shall expend the remaining three (3) percent of the total receipts of said tax for the purpose of:
a.
Promoting tourism, conventions, and trade shows;
b.
Supporting a facility owned or operated by a state authority for convention and trade show purposes or any other similar or related purposes;
c.
Supporting a facility owned or operated by a local government or local authority for convention and trade show purposes or any other similar or related purposes, if a written agreement to provide such support was in effect on January 1, 1987, and if such facility is substantially completed and in operation prior to July 1, 1987;
d.
Supporting a facility owned or operated by a local government or local authority for convention and trade show purposes or any other similar or related purposes if construction of such facility is funded or was funded prior to July 1, 1990, in whole or in part by a grant of state funds or is funded on or after July 1, 1990, in whole or substantially by an appropriation of state funds;
e.
Supporting a facility owned by a local government or local authority for convention and trade show purposes and any other similar or related purposes if construction of such facility is substantially funded or was substantially funded on or after February 28, 1985, by a special county one percent sales and use tax authorized by Article 3 of Chapter 8 of this title, as amended, and if such facility was substantially completed and in operation prior to December 31, 1993; or
f.
For some combination of such purposes. Amounts so expended shall be expended only through a contract or contracts with the state, a department of state government, a state authority, a convention and visitors bureau authority created by local Act of the General Assembly for a municipality, or a private sector nonprofit organization, or through a contract or contracts with some combination of such entities, except that amounts expended for the purposes specified in subparagraphs c. and d. of this paragraph may be so expended in any otherwise lawful manner. In addition to the amounts otherwise required to be expended under this paragraph, a county or municipality levying a tax pursuant to this paragraph shall further expend (in each fiscal year during which the tax is collected under this paragraph) an amount equal to sixteen and two-thirds (16⅔) percent of the total taxes collected at the rate of six (6) percent for promoting tourism, conventions, and trade shows. Amounts so expended shall be expended only through a contract or contracts with the state, a department of state government, a state authority, a convention and visitors bureau authority created by local Act of the General Assembly for a municipality, or a private sector nonprofit organization, or through a contract or contracts with some combination of such entities (O.C.G.A. 48-13-51(a)(3.4)).
(Ord. of 9-18-07, § IV)
Sec. 12-65. - Collection of tax by operator.
Every operator maintaining a hotel in this county and renting guest rooms in this county, not exempted under section 12-66, shall collect a tax of six (6) percent on the amount of rent from the occupant.
(Ord. of 9-18-07, § V)
Sec. 12-66. - Exemptions.
(a)
No tax shall be imposed under this article upon any persons who certify that they are staying in such rooms, lodging, or accommodations as a result of the destruction of their home or residence by fire other casualty (O.C.G.A. 48-13-51 (a)(1)(C)(i)).
(b)
The tax imposed under this article shall apply to the fees or charges for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations during the first ten (10) days of continuous occupancy and shall not apply to charges imposed for any continuous occupancy thereafter (O.C.G.A. 48-13-51(a)(1)(C)(i)).
(c)
No tax shall be imposed under this article to the charges for the use of meeting rooms and other such facilities or to any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided without charge (O.C.G.A. 48-13-51(a)(1)(C)(i)).
(d)
No tax shall be imposed under this article to the charges for any rooms, lodging, or accommodations furnished for a period of one or more days for use by state or local governmental officials or employees when traveling on official business. Notwithstanding the availability of any other means of identifying the person as a state or local governmental official or employee, whenever a person pays for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations with a state or local governmental credit or debit card, such rooms, lodgings, or accommodations shall be deemed to have been furnished for use by a state or local governmental official or employee traveling on official business for purpose of the exemption provided by this article (O.C.G.A. 48-13-51(a)(1)(C)(ii)).
(Ord. of 9-18-07, § VI)
Sec. 12-67. - Registration of operator; form and contents; execution certificate of authority.
Every person engaging or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel in this county shall immediately register with the tax commissioner of the county, on a form provided by the tax commissioner. Such registration shall set forth the name under which such person transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of the place or places of business and such other information which would facilitate the collection of the tax as the tax commissioner may require. The registration shall be signed by the owner, if a natural person; in case of ownership by an association or partnership, by a member or a partner; in the case of ownership by a corporation, by an officer thereof. The tax commissioner shall, after such registration, issue without charge a certificate of authority to each operator to collect the tax from the occupant. A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of an operator. Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business to which it is applicable.
(Ord. of 9-18-07, § VII)
Sec. 12-68. - Determination, returns and payments.
(a)
Due date of taxes. All amounts of such taxes shall be due and payable to the tax commissioner monthly on or before the 20th day of every month next succeeding each respective monthly period as set forth in section 12-61.
(b)
Return; time of filing; persons required to file; contents. On or before the 20th day of the month following each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period shall be filed with the tax commissioner showing the gross rent, rent from permanent residents, taxable rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the related period, and such other information as may be required by the tax commissioner.
(c)
Collection fee allowed operators. Operators collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and payment of the amount due, if that amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be the same rate authorized for deductions from state tax under the "Georgia Retailers' and Consumers' Sales and Use Tax Act," approved February 20, 1951 (1951 Ga. Laws, page 360), as now or hereafter amended.
(Ord. of 9-18-07, § VIII)
Sec. 12-69. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Recomputation of tax; authority to make; basis of recomputation. If the tax commissioner is not satisfied with the return or returns of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the county by any person, the tax commissioner may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within his possession or that may come into his possession. One or more deficiency determinations may be made of the account due for one or more monthly periods.
(b)
Interest of deficiency. The amount of the determination shall bear interest at the rate of three-fourths (¾) of one percent per month, or fraction thereof from the due date of taxes.
(c)
Notice of determination; service of. The tax commissioner shall give to the operator written notice of his determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail, such service shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the tax commissioner. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by addressee.
(d)
Time within which notice of deficiency determination to be mailed. Except in the case of failure to make a return, every notice of a deficiency determination shall be mailed within three (3) years after the 20th day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within three (3) years after the return is filed, whichever period should last expire.
(Ord. of 9-18-07, § IX)
Sec. 12-70. - Determination if no return made.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts. If any person fails to make a return, the tax commissioner shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the person, or as the case may be, of the amount of the total rentals in this county which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period or periods in respect to which the person failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the tax commissioner. Written notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in subsection 12-69(c).
(b)
Interest on amount found due. The amount of the determination shall bear interest at the rate of three-fourths (¾) of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, from the 20th day of the month following the monthly period, for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned, until the date of payment.
(Ord. of 9-18-07, § X)
Sec. 12-71. - Collection of tax.
(a)
Action for tax; time for. At any time within three (3) years after any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected becomes due and payable and at any time within three (3) years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, the tax commissioner may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the county to collect the amount delinquent together with interest, court fees, filing fees, attorneys' fees and other legal fees incident thereto. Such amounts and fees shall constitute alien against the property in the same manner as ad valorem taxes.
(b)
Duty of successors or assignees of operator to withhold tax from purchase money. If any operator liable for any amount under this article sells out his business or quits the business, his successors or assigns shall withhold sufficient of the purchase price to cover such amount until the former owner produces a receipt from the tax commissioner showing that he has been paid or a certificate stating that no amount is due.
(c)
Liability for failure to withhold; certificate of notice of amount due; time to enforce successor's liability. If the purchase of a business fails to withhold purchase price as required, he shall be personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be withheld by him to the extent of the purchase price.
(d)
Tax credit, or interest paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally collected. Whenever the amount of any tax or interest has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the county under this chapter, it may be offset by the tax commissioner. If the operator or person determines that he has overpaid or paid more than once, which fact has not been determined by the tax commissioner, he will have three (3) years from the date of payment to file claim in writing stating the specific ground upon which claim is founded. The claim shall be audited. If the claim is approved by the tax commissioner, the excess amount paid the county may be credited on any amounts then due and payable from the person by whom it was paid, or his administrators or executors.
(Ord. of 9-18-07, § XI)
