Chapter 6 - BUSINESS REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Development authority, § 2-51 et seq.; alcoholic beverages, Ch. 3; floodplain regulations, Ch. 7; signs, Ch. 9; soil erosion and sedimentation control, Ch. 10; solid waste management, Ch. 11; taxation and revenue, Ch. 12; traffic and motor vehicles, Ch. 13; water and sewerage, Ch. 14; zoning, App. B.
State Law reference— County's authority to levy, assess and collect business and occupational license taxes and license fees; exemptions, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-22.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Fortunetellers, etc.
(a)
The practice of fortunetelling, phrenology, astrology, clairvoyance, palmistry or other kindred practices, businesses or professions where a charge is made for the services rendered or a donation accepted for the services rendered is hereby prohibited.
(b)
This prohibition shall be effective for all areas of county outside the corporate limits of any municipality located in the county.
(c)
Any violation of this section shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.
(Res. of 3-1-83, §§ 1—3)
State Law reference— County commissioners may prohibit, regulate or tax the practice of fortunetelling, astrology, palmistry, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-15.
Secs. 6-2—6-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, ETC.[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Disabled veterans and blind persons engaging in peddling, O.C.G.A. § 43-12-1; Georgia Charitable Solicitations Act of 1988, O.C.G.A. § 43-17-1 et seq.; peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.; Transient Merchants Act of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.

Sec. 6-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Peddler means any person, whether a resident of the county or not, traveling either by foot, wagon, automobile vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meat, fish, vegetables, fruits, truck garden or farm products or provisions, offering and exposing them for sale, or making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling from place to place, sells or offers the same for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle, railroad car, or other vehicle or conveyance.
Solicitor or transient dealer means any person, whether a resident of the county or not, traveling either by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, taking or attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares, merchandise, personal property of any nature whatsoever, for future or present delivery, or for services, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such sale, or whether he is collecting advanced payment on such sales or not.
(Res. of 3-3-80, § 1)
Sec. 6-27. - License required.
A peddler, solicitor or transient dealer, or any person on his behalf, shall not engage in any business activity in this county without being duly licensed by the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 3-3-80, § 4(a))
Sec. 6-28. - License application.
Application for licenses by solicitors, peddlers and transient dealers shall be made to the board of commissioners, shall be sworn and in writing and shall contain the following information:
(1)
Name and physical description of applicant.
(2)
Address.
(3)
A brief description of the nature of the business to be conducted and the goods or services to be sold.
(4)
If the applicant is employed, the name and address of the employer, together with the credentials establishing the exact relationship.
(5)
The length of time for which the right to do business is desired.
(6)
If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same, together with the state vehicle license number or other means of identification.
(7)
A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal or county ordinance, and if so, the nature of the offense, and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
(Res. of 3-3-80, § 2)
Sec. 6-29. - Fees.
Any fee which shall be imposed by the provisions of this article shall be as determined from time to time by the board of commissioners and listed in the schedule of fees and charges maintained in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 3-3-80, § 3)
Sec. 6-30. - Prohibited where posted.
A peddler, solicitor or transient dealer, or any person in his behalf, shall not solicit or peddle at any time when a sign has been posted on a building stating "No Solicitors or Peddlers," or words to that effect.
(Res. of 3-3-80, § 4(b))
Sec. 6-31. - Violation.
Any violation of this article shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.
(Res. of 3-3-80, § 5)
