DIVISION 3. - PAY PLAN

Sec. 13-37. - Composition.
The pay plan includes pay grades for each position in the classification plan and the pay steps within each such grade.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-38. - Maintenance.
(a)
The pay plan shall be adopted by the board of commissioners and is intended to provide fair compensation for all classes in the classification plan, considering range of pay of other classes, rates of pay for comparable services in private and public employment in the area, cost of living data, other benefits received by employees, the county's financial condition and policy, and other factors. The board of commissioners shall periodically make or cause to be made comparative studies of all ranges, and on the basis of conclusions reached through such studies, it shall make such changes in salary ranges as are appropriate.
(b)
A notice of this study shall be posted in all county departments and the written results of the study made available to any county employee through the personnel department upon request.
(Ord. of 6-16-92; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-39. - Entrance salary.
The minimum rate established for the class is the normal hiring rate. Appointments, under special conditions and subject to the prior approval of the board of commissioners, may be made above the minimum rate when such action is determined to be necessary in the best interest of the county.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-40. - Promotion.
When an employee is promoted to a new class, such employee shall have their salary raised to at least the entry level step of the class to which the employee has been promoted and the raise in salary shall be at least as great as a one-step increase in that employee's previous salary class.
(Ord. of 3-7-00; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-41. - Demotion.
When an employee is demoted, such employee shall be paid at a rate which is within the pay scale of the position to which such employee is demoted and which salary shall be no greater than that paid to the employee prior to such employee's most recent promotion. Subject to the guidelines of this section, the rate of pay shall be set by the department head with the approval of the human resources director, taking into consideration the circumstances and reasons for demotion.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-42. - Salary reviews.
On the anniversary date of employment with the county each permanent employee may receive a salary increase not to exceed one (1) step. The salary increase can be denied if the employee's overall performance rating is below satisfactory.
Any across-the-board or cost-of-living increase given to full-time permanent employees shall not affect the annual increases for each employee.
(Ord. of 4-18-97; Ord. of 6-21-11; Ord. of 10-1-19, § 3)
Sec. 13-43. - Pay plan in force.
The pay plan, when adopted, shall be considered a part of this article and shall have the same force and effect as these personnel rules and regulations.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Secs. 13-44—13-49. - Reserved.
