DIVISION 9. - GRIEVANCES AND APPEALS

Sec. 13-110. - Policy.
The policy of the county is to give prompt consideration and equitable adjustment to employee grievances. The county desires to adjust grievances informally, and both supervisors and employees are expected to make every effort to solve problems as they arise. However, it is recognized that there may be grievances which will be resolved only after a formal appeal and review, and no employee shall be disciplined or discriminated against in any way because of his or her use of the grievance procedure.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-111. - Definition.
A grievance is a complaint made by an employee concerning:
(1)
The interpretation of these and other personnel-related rules and regulations;
(2)
Departmental work rules; or
(3)
Disciplinary action affecting such employee's employment with the county.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-112. - Direct appeal of certain disciplinary action.
Any permanent employee who is suspended, demoted or terminated shall have the right to appeal such action to the personnel review board.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-113. - Procedures.
Any permanent classified employee shall have a grievance heard in the following manner:
(1)
An employee shall first present such employee's grievance to such employee's supervisor, who shall make careful inquiry into the facts and circumstances of the complaint. The supervisor shall attempt to resolve the problem promptly and fairly.
(2)
An employee who is dissatisfied with the decision of the supervisor may submit the grievance in writing to such person's department head within five (5) working days following the receipt of the decision of such employee's supervisor. The department head shall make a separate investigation into this matter and inform the employee in writing of such department head's decision and the reason for it within ten (10) working days after receipt of the employee's grievance.
(3)
If the employee is dissatisfied with the decision of the department head and seeks review by the personnel review board, or if the employee has been the subject of disciplinary action and had elected to appeal directly to the personnel review board pursuant to section 13-112, then the following procedure shall be followed:
a.
The employee must submit a request in writing to the human resources director within five (5) working days following the receipt of the decision of the department head or within ten (10) days of disciplinary action if such employee has been disciplined and has appealed directly to the board.
b.
The human resources director shall notify the personnel review board of the employee's request for appeal, and it shall make such investigation and conduct such hearing as it deems necessary. Within forty-five (45) working days of the receipt of the employee's request for review, the board shall inform the employee in writing of its findings and decision.
c.
If the personnel review board finds that the grievance of the employee is without merit, the action of the county shall be sustained. If the board finds that the grievance of the employee is meritorious, then the board has full authority to take such action, including restoration of lost salary, as it considers appropriate, which action is binding upon the county. If the board directs that changes be made in disciplinary action taken by the county, the board may reverse the action taken altogether or it may impose such adjustments in the disciplinary action as it considers appropriate.
In determining whether or not the disciplinary action taken by the county shall be sustained, the board shall thoroughly review oral and written statements of the employee, of the employee's supervisor and of the department head, as well as the employee's personnel file, the employee's performance ratings, the reasons for the disciplinary action taken in light of the circumstances under which the discipline was made, and all other factors deemed relevant by the board.
(4)
The employee shall have the right, at all levels, to a hearing and may be represented by counsel of such employee's choice.
(5)
The provisions of this division are not available to persons dismissed from any department due to curtailment in funds, reduction in staff or abolishment of the position held by such employee.
(Ord. of 3-7-00; Amd. of 11-7-06; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-114. - Records.
All records of the proceedings contemplated in this division shall be placed in the employee's permanent personnel file.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Secs. 13-115—13-119. - Reserved.
