DIVISION 5. - PROBATION

Sec. 13-65. - Objective.
All full-time, non-temporary employees shall serve a probationary period at the outset of their employment with the county, or the county may impose a period of probation for disciplinary reasons, as is hereinafter provided. The probationary period shall be regarded as part of the employee selection process and shall be used for closely observing the employee's work, for securing the most effective adjustment of a new employee in the position, and for rejecting any employee whose performance is not satisfactory. Employees serving their probationary period have no appeal rights provided herein unless there is alleged discrimination because of race, age, color, creed, ancestry, political affiliation, physical handicap, religion, sex or national origin, and are not considered classified employees under the provision of the merit system.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-66. - Duration.
The probationary period shall be for a period of six (6) months; however, any employee required by state law to receive mandatory training prior to full-time employment shall have such employee's probationary period begin on the date all mandatory training is completed. If a department head requests in writing from the human resources director an extension of an established probationary period at any time more than fifteen (15) days prior to its expiration, the human resources director may extend the probationary period of a particular employee up to three (3) months beyond the end of the established period and so notify the employee in writing.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-67. - Evaluation of performance.
On such occasions during the probationary period as the employee's supervisor shall determine to be appropriate, the supervisor shall provide the employee with an assessment of such employee's job performance. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the expiration of an employee's probationary period, the department head shall notify the human resources director in writing, whether or not an employee has satisfactorily completed his or her probationary period to date and if it is likely that the department head will recommend permanent employment.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-68. - Dismissal.
During the probationary period, the department head may remove an employee who is unable or unwilling to perform the duties of the position satisfactorily, whose habits and dependability do not merit such employee's continued employment, or who fails to meet the requirements of a probationary period imposed for disciplinary reasons. The department head shall immediately report such removal to the employee stating the reasons for such removal, in writing, with a copy to the human resources director. Employees serving their probationary period do not have appeal rights provided herein unless there is alleged discrimination because of race, color, sex, political affiliation, physical handicap, religion, age, ancestry or national origin.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-69. - Promotional appointments.
The probationary period for a permanent employee being promoted or transferred to a different classified position will be for a period of three (3) months from the promotion/transfer date. (Example: An equipment operator applying for and being selected for a deputy sheriff position.) this employee will not be eligible for a merit increase during this probationary period. If the employee's annual merit increase consideration date is within this probationary period, the merit increase will be delayed until the probationary period is completed and the department head makes the decision that the employee is qualified and eligible for a merit increase in the new position. The next merit increase consideration will be one (1) year from this merit increase. If an employee is removed from such employee's promoted position, such employee shall be entitled to general re-employment rights in such employee's former classification, if there is a vacancy. Permanent employees being promoted within their assigned classified positions will not be required to serve a probationary period.
(Ord. of 4-18-97; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Secs. 13-70—13-74. - Reserved.
