ARTICLE XVIII. - LOW FLOW PLUMBING FIXTURES[10]

Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Dec. 17, 1991, did not specifically amend the Code; hence, its inclusion herein as Art. XVIII, §§ 6-300—6-307 was at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 6-300. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to:
(1)
Promote greater efficiency in residential and commercial water use and preserve the natural resources of this county;
(2)
Reduce consumer water and energy costs by reducing indoor water use, reducing the need for new water supplies and treatment facilities, lowering operation and maintenance costs for water and sewer utilities, and reducing the amount of energy used to heat, treat, and transport water; and
(3)
Generate consumer awareness of the need to save water and of the savings that can result from the use of efficient plumbing products.
(Ord. of 12-17-91, § 1)
Sec. 6-301. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
Commercial building as referred to in this article means any type of building other than residential.
Construction means the erection of a new building or the alteration of an existing building in connection with its repair or renovation or in connection with making an addition to an existing building and shall include the replacement of a malfunctioning, unserviceable, or obsolete faucet, showerhead, toilet, or urinal in an existing building.
Plumbing fixtures as referred to in this article shall mean any toilet, urinal, showerhead, bathroom, lavatory and kitchen faucet and replacement aerators.
Residential building as referred to in this article, means any building or unit of a building intended for occupancy as a dwelling but shall not include a hotel or motel.
Toilet as referred to in this article, shall mean any fixture consisting of a water flushed bowl with a seat, used for the disposal of human waste.
Urinal as referred to in this article, shall mean any fixture consisting of a water flushed bowl used for the disposal of human waste.
(Ord. of 12-17-91, § 2)
Sec. 6-302. - Standards.
No plumbing fixture shall be installed which does not meet the standards listed in this section or the Georgia State Plumbing Code. This includes all plumbing fixtures installed in newly constructed buildings or when replacing plumbing fixtures during remodeling or renovation of existing buildings, except as noted in section 6-304 below. The effective date of this requirement for residential buildings shall be April 1, 1992 and for commercial buildings shall be July 1, 1992.
(1)
All plumbing fixtures installed as referred to above should not exceed the following maximum water use rates:
a.
Toilets ..... 1.6 gallons per flush
b.
Urinals ..... 1.0 gallons per flush
c.
Showerheads ..... 2.5 gallons per minute
at 60 psi gage pressure
d.
Kitchen faucets ..... 2.5 gallons per minute
e.
Bathroom and lavatory
faucets ..... 2.0 gallons per minute
(2)
The flow restrictive device in a showerhead shall be a permanent and integral part of the showerhead and must not be removable to allow flow rates in excess of that stated in subsection (1) above.
(3)
Lavatory faucets located in restrooms intended for use by the general public shall be of the metering or self-closing type, in addition to the flow requirement listed in subsection (1).
(4)
The flow rates for all showerheads, kitchen, bathroom and lavatory faucets shall be determined in accordance with ANSI/ASME A112.18.1M-1989 Plumbing Fixture Fittings, as amended; except that maximum flow rates may not exceed those given in subsection (1) herein.
(5)
All toilets and urinals shall be certified to meet the hydraulic performance standards for "low consumption" water closets specified in ANSI/ASME A112.19.2-1990 Vitreous China Plumbing Fixtures, as amended, and ANSI/ASME A112.19.6-1990 Hydraulic Requirements for Water Closets and Urinals, as amended.
(Ord. of 12-17-91, § 3)
Sec. 6-303. - Product certification.
The manufacturer shall certify compliance with the standards listed in section 6-302 by labeling the fixture and packaging as described below and providing upon request, appropriate certification by an independent national testing organization acceptable to the director of the building department. Effective April 1, 1992, all toilets, urinals, showerheads or faucets shall be clearly labeled to indicate the maximum flow rate or water usage of the fixture at the specified test pressure. Toilets and urinals shall additionally be labeled ASME A112.19.2M, as prescribed in section 6-307 of this article. The label shall be affixed to the fixture and remain there until the proper building and/or plumbing inspections have been conducted. Also, the packaging must be clearly marked to identify water use rates when offered for retail.
(Ord. of 12-17-91, § 4)
Sec. 6-304. - Exceptions.
The following fixture uses or applications shall be exempt from the standards established in section 6-302 above:
(1)
When the repair or renovation of the existing building does not include the replacement of the plumbing or sewage system servicing toilets, faucets, or showerheads within such existing building;
(2)
When such plumbing or sewage system within such existing building, because of its capacity, design, or installation, would not function properly if the toilets, faucets, or showerheads required by section 6-302 installed;
(3)
When such system is a well or gravity flow from a spring and is owned privately by an individual for use in such individual's personal residence; or
(4)
When units to be installed are:
a.
Specifically designed for use by the handicapped;
b.
Specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or installation in a penal institution; or
c.
Toilets for juveniles.
(Ord. of 12-17-91, § 5)
Sec. 6-305. - Application for exemptions.
Permission for the exceptions listed in section 6-303 above shall be obtained from the director of the appropriate governmental department administering these rules.
(Ord. of 12-17-91, § 6)
Sec. 6-306. - Penalties for violations.
(a)
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be subject to a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each violation shall constitute a separate offense and each day that such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
Any building or plumbing contractors, developers, etc., who violate the provisions of this article shall be subject to suspension of their business license for a period of up to ninety (90) days.
(Ord. of 12-17-91, § 7)
Sec. 6-307. - Compliance and enforcement.
In addition to the penalty provided in section 6-305 below, Douglas County may take other actions as described below to compel compliance and may maintain an action or proceeding in any court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with or restrain any violation of this article.
(1)
Compliance with the requirements for installation and labeling at the time of installation in section 6-302 shall be determined by the building official or his agent in cases of new or replacement plumbing fixture installations and compliance shall be a condition for receipt of any occupancy permit.
(2)
The appropriate water authority or water service agency may deny any service connection to an establishment which does not comply with the standards set forth in section 6-302.
(3)
Compliance with the requirements in section 6-303 above regarding the labeling of plumbing fixtures offered for retail sale, shall be determined by the building official or his/her agent. The agency shall have access to all establishments which offer for retail sale or sell plumbing fixtures at retail for purposes of determining compliance with section 6-303.
(Ord. of 12-17-91, § 8)
Secs. 6-308, 6-309. - Reserved.
