ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 13-1. - Human resources director—Office created; appointment; term.
There is hereby created the office of human resources director, who shall be appointed by the board of commissioners for an indefinite period, until such person is removed or until a successor is appointed.
(Ord. of 1-10-78(2), § A; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-2. - Same—Duties.
Unless otherwise instructed, the human resources director shall perform in the following duties:
(1)
Make recommendations to the board of commissioners and other elected officials as to classification, compensation, examinations and recruitment of personnel.
(2)
Confer with department heads and employees as to personnel matters.
(3)
Interpret rules and regulations to employees and the general public.
(4)
Review requisitions for personnel and classify positions.
(5)
Review personnel forms related to employment, pay increases, classification changes, leaves, promotions, separations and related matters.
(6)
Prepare necessary reports, forms and other material related to the personnel program.
(7)
Prepare statistical reports as may be required as to personnel matters.
(8)
Human resources director is to notify all department heads and elected officials of any proposed reductions of employee benefits, at least, thirty (30) days prior to the proposed implementation date of said proposed change of benefit.
(Ord. of 1-10-78(2), § B; Ord. of 6-21-11; Ord. of 6-21-16, § 1)
Sec. 13-3. - Same—Disciplinary action.
The human resources director shall be notified by the department head of any disciplinary action by the department within two (2) working days of the time the action is completed.
(Ord. of 1-10-78(2), § D; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-4. - Same—Hiring of employees.
All employees of the county shall be hired by the human resources director after the director has been notified by the department head or elected official. No employee shall be put on the county payroll until the employee has been notified of this employment by the department head, or their designee.
(Ord. of 1-10-78(2), § E; Ord. of 3-7-95; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-5. - Risk and safety director.
There is hereby created the office of risk and safety director, who shall be appointed by the board of commissioners for an indefinite period until removed or until a successor is appointed.
(Ord. of 1-10-78(2), § A; Ord. of 3-17-09; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-6. - Same—Duties.
The risk and safety director shall perform the duties delegated to such director by the board of commissioners. The risk and safety director shall perform the following duties unless otherwise instructed by the board of commissioners:
(1)
Recommend rules and regulations for adopting by the board of commissioners as to safety procedures for county employees.
(2)
Give citations to county employees for violation of the safety rules and regulations and report the violation to the employee's supervisor.
(3)
Review reports of violations of safety rules and regulations as reported by supervisors and file a report of such director's findings in the employee's file.
(4)
Review periodically employee work areas and advise both employees and supervisors of both the actual and potential unsafe conditions.
(5)
Present safety lectures and seminars to employees.
(6)
Send to every elected official, department head and supervisor a copy of the safety rules and regulations as adopted.
(Ord. of 1-10-78(2), § B; Ord. of 3-17-09; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-7. - Safety board—Created; composition.
(a)
There is hereby created a board to be known as the safety board. This board shall be composed of three (3) individuals selected in the following manner; One (1) member shall be elected by the elected officials who shall have one (1) vote each, except the board of commissioners, which shall have only one (1) vote among them and it shall be cast by a majority of the board. The person selected shall be an elected official eligible to vote and the person so selected shall be appointed to the safety board by the county governing authority. The second and third members of the safety board shall be full-time employees of the county and shall be elected by the full-time employees of the county (other than the aforesaid elected officials) by a majority vote with each department having one vote. The full-time employee members must be employed by separate departments. The election shall be held under the direction and control of the chairman of the board of commissioners and the person so selected shall be appointed to the board by the county governing authority.
(b)
Each member of the safety board shall be selected and appointed for a term of four (4) years each and shall serve until their successors are named. No member of said board may be removed from office prior to the expiration of such member's term, except for cause after having been granted ten (10) days written notice by certified mail and afforded a hearing before the governing authority of the county.
(Ord. of 3-27-79(1), § A; Ord. of 6-15-10, § 1; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-8. - Reserved.
Editor's note— § 1 of an ord. adopted Oct. 1, 2019, repealed § 13-8, which pertained to safety board compensation and derived from an ord. adopted March 27, 1979, § B; and an ord. adopted June 21, 2011.
Sec. 13-9. - Same—Meetings.
All meetings of the safety board shall be held in offices provided by the governing authority.
(Ord. of 3-27-79(1), § C; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-10. - Same—Duties.
(a)
If payments for salary in lieu of worker's compensation are to be paid by the county, within five (5) days of the time the claim for payment is filed with the human resources department, and prior to payments, the board shall:
(1)
Review the claim.
(2)
Make a written finding that the injury sustained was incurred in the performance of duty and not due to the negligence of the employee; and
(3)
In writing shall recommend or not recommend payment by the governing authority.
(b)
The board shall review each safety violation report filed by the risk and safety director during the first year of the creation of this board. Thereafter, the board shall review safety violations requested by the risk and safety director or elected official or any safety violation the board members desire to review.
(c)
Upon written request by the risk and safety director or at any other time upon motion made and passed, the board shall review the procedures and operations of any department of the work habit of any employee for possible safety violations. The board shall then, upon a finding that there are potential safety violations, recommend changes in the procedures and operations of the department or the work habit of any employee to the elected official.
(d)
The board shall keep and maintain an accurate typed record of minutes which shall be done with the aid of furnished clerical assistance provided by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 3-27-79(1), § D; Ord. of 3-17-09; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-11. - Safety policy statement.
(a)
The county has a concern for the welfare and safety of its employees and the public it serves. It acknowledges its obligation, as an employer, to provide the safest possible working conditions for employees and as a government service organization, to provide a safe environment for the public that uses its services. When unnecessary accidents occur, they are an indication of wasteful and inefficient operation. The county believes that most accidents can be prevented. In accordance with that conviction, it has created the office of a full-time risk and safety director to develop and administer an aggressive occupational safety program for the county work force.
(b)
The risk and safety director will analyze accident causes, costs and other pertinent factors for use in accident prevention. Such director will also consult with and advise administrative officials and department heads on accident prevention; identify hazardous work locations and practices and recommend corrective action as it relates to the operation and maintenance of motorized equipment; develop and conduct safety training courses; review and evaluate safety suggestions; plan and administer the job training courses required to meet these needs; organize special classes to train supervisors and other personnel in technical aspects of vehicle operation and maintenance aid for conducting on-the-job training courses, and maintain current information programs available in local educational institutions; maintain records of training courses completed, and prepare suitable certificates or other forms of recognition for employees who satisfactorily complete courses; develop training manuals; coordinate all safety and training programs; assist in developing and redesigning certification standards for licensing motorized equipment operators; issue safety citations when sufficient cause is noted. Such director will also prepare and maintain all records pertaining to accidents, cause, costs and corrective actions taken, and issue a report monthly and yearly.
(c)
However, the risk and safety director is not expected to exceed staff administrative responsibility to perform line functions that are properly a responsibility of management and supervision. The appointment of a full-time risk and safety director does not relieve department heads and supervisors of a basic responsibility; that of expanding their management and supervisory practices to incorporate safety engineering principles in all supervisory efforts.
(d)
Department heads and supervisors at all levels of the county work force are directed to make safety a matter of continuing concern, equal in importance to all other operational considerations. They are expected to cooperate with and assist the appointed risk and safety director to implement the policies of this office; and to develop and administer an effective department safety program. Their responsibility encompasses the adoption of work standards designed to attain the only goal acceptable to management and work force alike - a work environment free of potential hazards, or work procedures that may produce injuries and property damage. To reach that goal, management and supervisory personnel must:
(1)
Provide informed leadership and adequate supervision of the county work force.
(2)
Provide adequate job training and continuing safety instruction to all employees.
(3)
Develop reasonable, practical safe job procedures for county operations and enforce them.
(4)
Secure prompt and adequate medical care to minimize the severity of injuries and safe guard the physical and mental welfare of employees.
(5)
Continuously review work practices and conditions of the work environment to seek improvement.
(e)
All employees are charged with responsibility for cooperation with, and support of, safety program objectives. All employees are expected, as a condition of employment, to adopt the concept that the safe way to perform a task is the most efficient and the only acceptable way to perform it.
(f)
Safety records shall be measured along with all other phases of supervisor and employee performance. Therefore, it is absolutely essential that such records be complete and accurate and that all accidents be fully reported.
(Ord. of 7-10-79; Ord. of 3-17-09; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-12. - Living wage established.
The board of commissioners hereby establishes a countywide minimum wage of $15.00 per hour for all county employees, whether full-time, temporary, or part-time. The effective date hereof is January 1, 2022.
(Ord. of 12-14-21)
Sec. 13-13. - Reserved.
