ARTICLE XIII. - ASSESSMENTS ON STANDING TIMBER[9]

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted July 21, 1992, did not specifically amend the Code; hence, its inclusion herein as Art. XIII, §§ 12-220—12-230 was at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 12-220. - Purpose.
The intent of the county board of commissioners in enacting this article is to enable Douglas County to assess standing timber for ad valorem purposes pursuant to Chapter 5 of Title 48 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
(Ord. of 7-21-92)
Sec. 12-221. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, the following words shall have the following meanings:
Prohibition: No individual, partnership, corporation, or other entity of any kind whatsoever shall engage in timber harvesting or cutting in the unincorporated areas of Douglas County except in compliance with the provisions of this article.
Timber cutters: Any individual, partnership or corporation harvesting timber or wood products for commercial or profit making purposes.
Timber cutting process or operation: Includes the act of timber cutting, the loading of the timber on to the vehicles involved, and the transport of the timber onto the applicable county street or roadway.
Timber harvesting or cutting: Selective cutting or clear cutting for pulpwood or sawtimber.
(Ord. of 7-21-92)
Sec. 12-222. - Permit required; hearings required for revocations and suspensions.
No timber harvesting or cutting shall be performed until a permit for same has been obtained from the county permit office. No such permit shall be suspended or revoked except for due cause and after hearing before the board of commissioners after notice to the permit holder of the date, time and place of hearing, along with a statement of the charges upon which the hearing is to be had. The violation of any laws or ordinances regulating timber harvesting or cutting as set forth hereinabove shall constitute due cause for suspending or revoking such permit. Ten (10) days notice shall be deemed reasonable, but shorter or longer periods of notice shall be authorized as the board of commissioners may deem appropriate. At such hearing, the permit holder shall be entitled to be represented by an attorney, to cross-examine all witnesses who may appear against him, and to present evidence in his own behalf.
(Ord. of 7-21-92)
Sec. 12-223. - Required permit application information.
Any individual, partnership or corporation desiring to engage in timber harvesting or cutting shall submit an application for permit to the county permit office and shall include in that application the following information:
(1)
The name and address of the individual, partnership or corporation who will be engaged in the timber harvesting or cutting operation.
(2)
The specific location of the timber harvesting or cutting operation.
(3)
The identity of any points of egress onto any public street which may be employed by the timber harvesting or cutting operation.
(4)
The name and address of the applicable property owner or owners.
(5)
The estimated time of completion of the timber harvesting or cutting operation.
Sec. 12-224. - Validity of permit area to be mapped out.
The issued permit shall be valid for an area continuous to the timber harvesting or cutting operation and shall include all identified point or points of egress onto any public road or roads.
(Ord. of 7-21-92)
Sec. 12-225. - Permit fees; duration of permit.
The issued permit fee shall be set by the board of commissioners from time to time by resolution. The permit shall be valid for a period to be determined by the permit office; such period shall not exceed the estimated time of completion of the specific timber harvest or cutting operation, except that upon a showing of good cause, the permit office may grant an extension.
(Ord. of 7-21-92)
Sec. 12-226. - General duties of permit holder.
(a)
No equipment, trucks or trailers which are part of the timber cutting operation shall be allowed to park on any applicable public road or right-of-way.
(b)
The timber cutting operation shall display a minimum of four (4) warning signs, two (2) in each direction of the road entrance to the timber cutting operation. Two (2) signs, one (1) in each direction, shall be located five hundred (500) feet in each direction from the operation entrance and shall contain the following information: "Slow Truck Entering Highway". Two (2) signs, one (1) in each direction, shall be located one thousand (1,000) feet in each direction from the operation entrance and shall contain the following information: "Warning: Logging Operation Ahead". Each sign shall be thirty-six (36) inches times thirty-six (36) inches, orange in color and shall be posted at least three (3) feet from the travel surface of the applicable roadway. Each timber cutting operation may furnish their own signs or, in the alternative, Douglas County will furnish the applicable signs in exchange for a fifty dollar ($50.00) deposit fee. This fee will be refunded upon proper return of these signs.
(Ord. of 7-21-92)
Sec. 12-227. - Compliance with Tree Protection Ordinance.
All timber harvesting shall comply with the tree protection regulations as set forth in Article XIV, Chapter Six of the Douglas County Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. of 7-21-92)
Sec. 12-228. - Compliance with Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Ordinance.
All timber harvesting shall comply with the Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control regulations as set forth in Article XI of Chapter Six of the Douglas County Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. of 7-21-92)
Sec. 12-229. - Performance bond or letter of credit required.
The Douglas County Permit Office, as a condition precedent to the issuance of a permit, shall require a performance bond or a letter of credit to be executed by the individual, partnership or corporation desiring such timber cutting permit in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). Such bond is subject to approval by the county attorney. The bond or letter of credit shall indemnify Douglas County against any and all damage caused, as a result of the timber harvesting or cutting process, to any public property including county roads, right-of-ways, points of egress and any other public property which may be affected by the timber harvesting or cutting process. Such bond or letter of credit shall further indemnify Douglas County for costs incurred in the cleanup of waste or debris left on public property as a result of the timber harvesting or cutting operation. Upon completion or removal of all waste and debris and/or completion of necessary repairs concerning public property involved in the timber harvesting or cutting process, and upon damage approval of such affected public property by the permit office, Douglas County agrees to release said permit holder from the applicable performance bond or letter of credit. Said permit holder shall be allowed a maximum of thirty (30) days to remove any debris or to make any necessary repairs. After this thirty-day period, any applicable performance bond or letter of credit will be subject to forfeiture.
(Ord. of 7-21-92)
Sec. 12-230. - Penalties.
(a)
Upon notice from the issuing authority, work on any project that is being done contrary to the provisions of this article shall be immediately stopped. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the permit holder, the person or persons in charge of the activity and the owner of the property, and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed. When an emergency exists, no written notice shall be required. All stop work orders shall remain in effect until the permit holder is in compliance with this article.
(b)
Any violation of the provisions of this article, including the above stop work order shall be punished as for a misdemeanor under the provisions of the Douglas County Code of Ordinances, section 1-8.
(Ord. of 7-21-92)
Secs. 12-231—12-239. - Reserved.
