ARTICLE VI. - DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted July 21, 1992, amended Art. VI to read as herein set out in §§ 12-100—12-107. Prior to inclusion of said ordinance, Art. VI, §§ 12-100—12-102 pertained to similar subject matter and carried no history note.

Sec. 12-100. - Purpose.
The intent of the Douglas County Board of Commissioners in enacting this article is to regulate the sale of goods and services by canvassing or soliciting at residences in the county, to the end that criminal activity in the county and abusive techniques utilized by any such canvassers or solicitors which adversely affect the public health, safety, and welfare in the county will be curtailed. This article is not intended as a de facto prohibition of door to door solicitation, nor is it an attempt to adversely affect interstate commerce. Instead, this article is intended to balance competing interests: reduced criminal activity and protection of county citizens from abuse sales techniques versus the conduct of proper commercial sales activity. This article is not intended to allow any business activity which would otherwise be unlawful.
(Ord. of 2-18-92)
Sec. 12-101. - License required.
Any person, partnership, corporation, firm, or business engaging in, or offering to engage in business as a canvasser or solicitor at residences in the county for the purpose of soliciting orders, sales, subscriptions, or conducting business of any kind, shall obtain a license from the business license and permit office, shall pay all fees required therefor, and shall secure or create identification cards or badges pursuant to this article; except that nonprofit organizations and their canvassers or solicitors which are exempt from payment of taxes by the United States Internal Revenue Service are exempt from payment of these fees.
(Ord. of 2-18-92)
Sec. 12-102. - Procedure.
(a)
All nonexempt persons or entities who seek a license for door to door solicitation must file an application with the business license office. The application shall contain a complete identification and signature of each person so canvassing or soliciting, the name and address of the employer, and the proposed method of operation in the county, including the time and area of the operation.
(b)
Upon application, each person who is proposed to be a door to door canvasser or solicitor in the county shall present to the permit office their name, date of birth, social security number, and state of birth, and shall sign a waiver allowing the county law enforcement agency to conduct a criminal history check in the United States, and such county law enforcement agency shall report its recommendation to the permit office, who shall consider any such report in its decision to accept or deny the application in question.
(c)
License applications pursuant to this article shall be granted or refused to any applicant or canvasser after consideration by the county of all matters deemed relevant to the application in question, including the application itself and criminal history check by the county law enforcement agency, all of which matters shall be disclosed to the applicant upon request.
(d)
In addition to the requirements of this article and where not inconsistent with the provisions hereof, each applicant shall comply with the provisions of Article I of this chapter.
(e)
Nonprofit organizations and their canvassers or solicitors are exempt from the payment of any fees under this article. In order to obtain such exemption from fees under this article, any such nonprofit organization must register with the business license and permits office of the county, and must provide the county with proper documentation from the Internal Revenue Service showing its nonprofit status.
(Ord. of 2-18-92)
Sec. 12-103. - Fees.
The annual door to door sales license fee for each corporation, partnership, or business licensed hereunder shall be sixty dollars ($60.00). In addition, each individual salesperson who is proposed to conduct door to door sales or solicitation in the county shall pay an application fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00). The amounts required for both the license fee and the application fee may be changed at any time by the board of commissioners pursuant to filing notice of the change in the business license office.
(Ord. of 2-18-92)
Sec. 12-104. - Identification.
Every corporation which engages in residential door to door solicitation or sales of any kind whatsoever in the county must obtain or create for each individual salesperson an identification card or badge on which is clearly shown the name and social security number of the individual salesperson, a clear photograph of the salesperson, and the name and address of the corporation or business under which the license was issued. Each such badge must be worn by the individual salesperson at all times while conducting door to door sales or solicitation in the county.
(Ord. of 2-18-92)
Sec. 12-105. - License duration.
Each license issued under this article shall last for the duration of one (1) calendar year, after which it shall be necessary to renew any such license.
(Ord. of 2-18-92)
Sec. 12-106. - Revocation.
On the basis of one (1) complaint by a resident of Douglas County, the board of commissioners, upon petition by the business license office, shall have the power to revoke any door to door solicitation license as to any one (1) particular salesperson. On the basis of three (3) complaints centering on one (1) particular business or corporation which is licensed under this article, the board of commissioners, upon petition by the business license office, shall have the power to revoke any door to door solicitation license issued to such corporation.
(Ord. of 2-18-92)
Sec. 12-107. - Hours.
Any person, business, or entity conducting door to door solicitation pursuant to this article must conduct all such activity between the hours of sunrise and sunset.
(Ord. of 2-18-92)
Secs. 12-108, 12-109. - Reserved.
