DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 13-14. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them:
Applicant: Any person who has filed an application in accordance with the provisions of division 4.
Civil service system: The merit system.
Class: A group of positions (or one (1) position) that has similar duties and responsibilities, requires like qualification and can be equitably compensated by the same range of pay.
Department head: An individual designated by the county administrator and approved by the board of commissioners to be in charge of and responsible for a county department. In some departments, for the purpose of the merit system only, the department head may be an elected official (a constitutional officer elected by the citizens of the county). This does not include the board of commissioners.
Director: An individual designated by the county administrator and approved by the board of commissioners to be in charge of and responsible for a county department or multiple departments.
Elected officials: The officers of the county elected by the public. For the purpose of this civil service system, this definition is limited to the board of commissioners, clerk of the superior court, probate judge, sheriff, tax commissioner, magistrate judge, district attorney, superior court judges, and coroner.
Employee: An occupant of a "position."
Full-time employee: A permanent, non-temporary employee who works forty (40) hours per week and has completed the probationary period.
Part-time employee: An employee who, on a continuing basis, works fewer than thirty (30) hours per week. A part-time employee shall not be entitled to employee benefits, such as insurance, retirement, vacation or sick leave, nor shall that person be covered by these rules and regulations.
Permanent employee: A full-time, non-temporary employee who has completed the probationary period.
Position: A group of current duties and responsibilities assigned or delegated by the elected official in charge of a department requiring the full-time employment of one (1) person.
Probationary period: An employee who has worked for the county less than six (6) consecutive months from the date of hire, or greater time as set forth in section 13-66. A probationary employee shall not be entitled to employee benefits, such as retirement, vacation or sick leave, nor shall that person be regulated by these rules and regulations, except as provided in section 13-66. Probationary employees may not apply for another job position until they have successfully completed this probationary period. An employee on an extended probationary period is not eligible to apply for another job position.
Supervisor: The person immediately in charge of an employee or group of employees.
Temporary employee: An employee hired for a specific job that has a duration of six (6) months or less. A temporary employee shall not be entitled to employee benefits, such as insurance, retirement, vacation or sick leave, nor shall such person be under these rules and regulations.
(Amd. of 11-7-06; Ord. of 6-21-11; Ord. of 6-21-16, §§ 2, 3)
Sec. 13-15. - Purpose; merit principles.
(a)
It is the purpose of these rules to establish procedures which will serve as a guide to administrative action concerning the various personnel activities and operations. These rules are intended to indicate the usual and most reasonable methods for carrying out the work of the personnel system.
(b)
As further developed throughout this article, the system shall be consistent with the following merit principles:
(1)
Recruiting, selecting and advancing employees on the basis of their relative ability; fidelity to the county, knowledge and skills.
(2)
Establishing pay rates so that there is equal pay for equal work;
(3)
Keeping and retaining employees on the basis of how well they do their work, correcting their work when it is not adequate, and dismissing employees whose inadequate work cannot be corrected.
(4)
Assuring fair treatment of applicants and employees in all aspects of personnel administration without regard to political affiliation, race, color, creed, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, age, sex or religion.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-16. - Equal employment opportunity.
It is the policy of the county to provide equal employment to all persons and to prohibit discrimination in employment, because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, creed, ancestry, political affiliation, physical handicap or age. This policy applies to and is a basic part of every aspect of the county's personnel policy and practices in the employment, development, advancement and treatment of employees.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-17. - Positions covered.
(a)
All full-time permanent employees of the county are under the merit system, with the exception of the county administrator, elected officials, clerk of the board of commissioners, members of appointed boards, commissions and authorities, the county attorney, the county public defender, the District Attorney, contract employees and other independent contractors are likewise excluded from the merit system.
(b)
These rules and regulations shall apply to those employees covered by the merit system.
(Ord. of 5-21-91, § 1; Ord. of 3-7-95; Ord. of 6-21-11; Ord. of 10-1-19, § 2)
Sec. 13-18. - Administration.
The board of commissioners shall have the responsibility and authority for the enforcement and administration of these rules and regulations.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-19. - Personnel review board.
(a)
There is hereby created a civil service board to be known as the personnel review board. This board shall be composed of three (3) citizens of the county who are landowners, who are not employees of the county, who have paid their taxes to date or have appealed the same, and who have been residents of the county for at least two (2) years immediately prior to their selection.
(b)
Members of the personnel review board shall be elected and appointed for a term of four (4) years each, and shall serve until their successors are named and qualified. Said members of the personnel review board shall be selected and appointed in the following manner: one (1) member shall be selected by decision of the clerk of superior court, the tax commissioner, the sheriff and the probate judge, each of whom shall have one (1) vote, and the board of commissioners, which shall have only one (1) vote which may be cast by a majority of said board, and the person so selected by said county officials shall be appointed to the personnel review board by the county governing authority. The second member shall be selected by majority vote of the permanent employees of the county (other than the aforesaid elected officials) who are covered by the merit system, with such election being under the direction and control of the chairman of the board of commissioners, and the person so selected shall be appointed by the county governing authority after being advised of the selection. The third member of the personnel review board shall be selected by the two (2) members selected by the elected officials and the permanent county employees, and the person so selected shall be appointed to the board by the county governing authority. No member of the personnel review board shall have held political office or have been a salaried employee of the county during the three (3) months preceding such member's appointment. No member of the personnel review board may be removed from the office prior to the expiration of such members' term except for cause after having been granted a notice and afforded a hearing before the board of commissioners. Prior to said hearing said member shall be served by registered or certified mail addressed to such member's residence as shown in the files of said governing authority at least ten (10) days before the date set for said hearing, with written specifications of the charges against such member. The three (3) members shall designate one (1) of their number as chairman and one (1) as vice-chairman. Vacancies on the personnel review board shall be filled in the same manner in which the positions were originally filled.
(c)
Members of the personnel review board shall be paid the sum of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per diem for time actually devoted to the business of the board, not exceeding twenty-five (25) days in any calendar year.
(d)
It shall be the duty, function and responsibility of the personnel review board to represent the interest of the public in the improvement of personnel administration and the selection of qualified personnel. All meetings of the personnel review board shall be held in offices provided therefor by the governing authority of the county or in a courtroom of the superior court of the county.
(e)
The duties of the board shall be as follows:
(1)
To hold public hearings regarding rules and regulations of the merit system and thereafter to recommend to the board of commissioners the adoption of these rules and regulations. These rules and regulations shall include provisions for the establishment and maintenance of job classifications and compensation plans, the conduct of examinations for appointment under the merit system, the certification of eligible persons, appointments, promotions, transfers, demotions, separations, tenure, service ratings, reinstatements, appeals, and such additional regulations as may be deemed to be in the best interest of impartial selection of efficient personnel and improvement of public administration. It shall be the duty of the board of commissioners to adopt such rules and regulations submitted by the personnel review board as deemed necessary by the board of commissioners. The board of commissioners may accept or reject any part or all of a proposed amendment, as submitted. The board of commissioners may initiate an amendment by forwarding the same to the personnel review board. If the personnel review board does not approve or reject the proposed amendment within forty-five (45) days of submission, the personnel review board will be deemed to have approved the same and it shall be forwarded to the board of commissioners for its review.
It shall be the policy of the county board of commissioners to respond in writing within sixty (60) days of receiving any proposed changes to the personnel review board.
(2)
To hear appeals as set forth in section 13-113(4).
(3)
To hold such meetings as may be required for the proper discharge of its duties.
(4)
To keep and maintain an accurate typed record of minutes which shall be done with the aid of furnished clerical assistance provided by the board of commissioners.
(f)
Changes in the county merit system will be on an annual basis with the annual public meeting being held in the month of February. The board of commissioners shall consider all changes approved by the personnel review board and within sixty (60) days after receipt of such changes
(g)
The personnel review board shall have no authority to review or make recommendations regarding employee salaries or the pay plan outlined in division 3.
(Ord. of 3-29-93; Ord. of 4-18-97; Ord. of 3-7-00; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Secs. 13-20—13-25. - Reserved.
