ARTICLE VI. - WETLANDS PROTECTION

Sec. 38-201. - Findings, purpose.
(a)
The wetlands within the city are indispensable and fragile natural resources with significant development constraints due to flooding, erosion and soils limitations. In their natural state, wetlands serve man and nature. The wetlands provide habitat areas for fish, wildlife and vegetation; water quality maintenance and pollution control; flood control; erosion control; natural resource education; scientific study; and open space and recreational opportunities. In addition, the wise management of forested wetlands is essential to the economic well-being of many communities within the state.
(b)
Nationally, a considerable number of these important natural resources have been lost or impaired by draining, dredging, filling, excavating, building, pollution and other acts. Piecemeal or cumulative losses will, over, time, destroy additional wetlands. Damaging or destroying wetlands threatens public safety and the general welfare.
(c)
It is therefore necessary for the city to ensure maximum protection for wetlands by discouraging development activities that may adversely affect wetlands.
(d)
The purpose of this article is to promote wetland protection, while taking into account varying ecological, economic development, recreational and aesthetic values. Activities that may damage wetlands should be located on upland sites to the greatest degree practicable as determined through a permitting process. The objective of this article is to protect wetlands from alterations that will significantly affect or reduce their primary functions for water quality, floodplain and erosion control, groundwater recharge, aesthetic nature and wildlife habitat.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(3))
Sec. 38-202. - Definitions.[4]
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Functions means the beneficial roles that wetlands serve, including: storage, conveyance and attenuation of floodwater and stormwater; protection of water quantity and quality and reduction of erosion; habit for wildlife, including rare, threatened and endangered species; food chain support for a wide variety of wildlife and fisheries; educational, historical and archeological value protection; and scenic, aesthetic and recreational amenities.
Generalized wetland map means wetlands identified on the U.S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service, National Wetlands Inventory Maps.
Hydric soils means soils that form as a result of saturated soil conditions. A list of these soils is maintained by the soil conservation service.
Hydrophytic vegetation means macrophytic plants tolerant of or dependent on saturated soil conditions.
Jurisdictional determination means an official, written statement or map signed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or, in the case of coastal marshlands, the state department of natural resources.
Jurisdictional wetland means a wetland area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Regulated activity means any activity which will, or which may reasonably be expected to, result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the united states excepting those activities exempted in section 38-205 and exempted in section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act.
Silviculture means the art of producing, reproducing and growing a forest of distinctive stands of trees.
Temporary emergency permit means a temporary permit that may be issued in certain circumstances specified in section 38-207.
Wetland means an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and distribution sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas.
Wetland delineation means the establishment of wetland boundaries by a representative of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or an authority designated by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Wetland protection district [5] means wetlands within the city which are indicated on the generalized wetland map. The generalized wetland map, together with all explanatory matter thereon and attached thereto, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this article. The generalized wetland map does not represent the boundaries of jurisdictional wetlands within the city and cannot serve as a substitute for a delineation of wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by Section 404 of the Clean Water Act, as amended. Any local government action under this article does not relieve the land owner from federal or state permitting requirements.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(3), § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Where other terms or words require definition, please refer to the 1987 U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Wetlands Manual or call the District Corps office in Savannah, at 1-800-448-2402.

--- (5) ---
Editor's note— The source wetlands map is the Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory maps. The city should consider the limitations of available map resources used to compile the generalized wetland map. To varying degrees, all maps contain systematic distortion and inaccuracy. Generally, inaccuracy grows larger with decreasing map scale. Commonly used wetland maps, such as the National Wetland Inventory (NWI) Maps, are drawn at a scale of 1:24,000. This means that one inch on the map represents 24,000 inches on the ground, or 2,000 feet (approximately two-fifths of a mile). Maps of this scale cannot define wetland boundaries in a legally defensible way. In addition, many small and isolated wetlands may not be shown on these maps. For these reasons, the generalized wetland map adopted by city can only be regarded as a general reference document, which may serve a variety of functions, such as indicating the need for seeking advice or a wetland determination from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. A Generalized Wetland Map at a scale of 1:24,000, cannot be used to delineate, in a legally defensible manner, the boundaries of jurisdictional wetlands. Formal delineation of wetlands that are protected by Section 404 of the Clean Water Act, is vested with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The Soil Conservation Service (SCS) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture is the lead agency for making wetland delineations on agricultural lands.

Sec. 38-203. - Relationship to zoning.
The wetland protection district shall comprise an overlay zone that supplements and is indicated on the city zoning map.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(3), § 2)
Sec. 38-204. - Local development permit requirements.
No regulated activity will be allowed within the wetland protection district without written permission from the city council in the form of a local development permit. Issuance of a local development permit is contingent on full compliance with the terms of this article and other applicable regulations. All activities that are not identified in section 38-205 shall be prohibited without prior issuance of a local development permit. If the area proposed for development is located within 200 feet of the wetland protection district boundary, as determined by the city or authorized designee using the generalized wetland map, a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determination shall be required. If the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determines that wetlands are present on the proposed development site and that a Section 404 Permit or Letter of Permission is required, a local development permit will be issued only following issuance of the Section 404 Permit or Letter of Permission.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(3), § 3)
Sec. 38-205. - Permitted uses.
The following uses shall be allowed as of right within a wetland protection district to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance or law, including laws of trespass, and provided they do not require structures, grading, fill, draining or dredging except as provided in this article.
(1)
Conservation or preservation of soil, water, vegetation, fish and other wildlife, provided it does not affect waters of state or of the United States in such a way that would require an individual 404 Permit [6]
(2)
Outdoor passive recreational activities, including fishing, bird watching, hiking, boating, horseback riding and canoeing.
(3)
Forestry practices applied in accordance with best management practices approved by the state forestry commission and as specified in Section 404 of the Clean Water Act. [7]
(4)
The cultivation of agricultural crops. Agricultural activities shall be subject to best management practices approved by the state department of agriculture. [8]
(5)
The pasturing of livestock, provided that riparian wetlands are protected, that soil profiles are not disturbed and that approved agricultural best management practices are followed.
(6)
Education, scientific research and nature trails.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(3), § 4)
Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— The activities listed in section 38-205 are exempted from Section 404 regulations provided they do not have impacts on a navigable waterway that would necessitate acquisition of an individual 404 permit. However, under Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act, a permit may be required in some circumstances.

--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Section 404 does not require permits for normal, ongoing silvicultural activities. However, Section 404 does list some required performance standards and 15 specific road construction best management practices (BMPs) that must be followed in order to qualify for such an exemption.

--- (8) ---
Editor's note— Under Section 404, normal on-going agricultural activities are exempted from 404 regulations and do not require a permit. Normal agricultural activities include planting and harvesting of crops and pasturing of livestock. Under provisions of the Food Securities Act of 1985 (the so-called "Swampbuster Provisions") eligibility for all U.S. Department of Agriculture programs is denied to farms that convert wetlands to croplands. These programs include USDA price and income supports, disaster payments, crop insurance, Farmers Home Administration loans, Commodity Credit Corporation storage payments, farm storage facility loans, Conservation Reserve Program payments, and other programs under which payments are made to the farmer with respect to commodities produced.

Sec. 38-206. - Prohibited use.
The following uses are prohibited in the wetlands protection district:
(1)
Receiving areas for toxic or hazardous waste or other contaminants.
(2)
Hazardous or sanitary waste landfills.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(3), § 4A)
Sec. 38-207. - Temporary emergency permit.
A temporary emergency permit can be issued by the city council for the following reasons:
(1)
Maintenance or repair of lawfully located roads or structures and of facilities used in the service of the public to provide transportation, electric, gas, water, telephone, telegraph, telecommunication or other services, provided that such roads, structures or facilities are not materially changed or enlarged and written notice prior to the commencement of work has been given to the city council and provided that the work is conducted using best management practices to ensure that flow and circulation patterns and chemical and biological characteristics of the wetland are not impaired and that any adverse effect on the aquatic environment will be minimized.
(2)
Temporary water level stabilization measures associated with ongoing silvicultural operations, provided that they are necessary to alleviate abnormally wet or dry conditions that would have an adverse impact on the conduct of silvicultural activities if not corrected.
(3)
Limited ditching, tilling, dredging, excavating or filling done solely for the purpose of maintaining or repairing existing drainage systems necessary for the cultivation of agricultural crops, provided that the maintenance or repair activity does not result in the impairment, alteration or loss of wetlands not previously subject to agricultural and silvicultural use under the terms and provisions of section 38-205.
(4)
Limited excavating and filling necessary for the repair and maintenance of piers, walkways, nature trails, observation decks, wildlife management shelters, boathouses or other similar water-related structures, provided that they are built on pilings to allow unobstructed flow of water and preserve the natural contour of the wetland.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(3), § 5)
Sec. 38-208. - Site plans.
Applications for a local development permit within the generalized wetland protection district shall include a site plan, drawn at a scale of one inch equals 50 feet, with the following information:
(1)
A map of all planned excavation and fill, including calculations of the volume of cut and fill involved, cross sectional drawings showing existing and proposed grades. Elevations, horizontal scale and vertical scale must be shown on the cross sectional drawings.
(2)
A map of any wetland boundaries occurring within the site must be provided. This boundary may be included on other maps provided by the applicant.
(3)
Location, dimensions and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site and adjacent to the site for a distance of 200 feet.
(4)
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or water body.
(5)
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within 200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than two feet; and no greater than one foot for slopes less than or equal to two percent.
(6)
Location and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing accidentally released hazardous or toxic materials.
(7)
All proposed temporary disruptions or diversions of local hydrology.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(3), § 6)
Sec. 38-209. - Activities to comply with site plan.
(a)
All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform with the specifications of such site plan. The site plan may be amended only with the approval of the city council. The city council may require additional information deemed necessary to verify compliance with the provisions of this article or to evaluate the proposed use in terms of the purposes of this article.
(b)
The city may require a bond up to the larger of $5,000.00 or $1,000.00 per acre of project area and with surety and conditions sufficient to secure compliance with the conditions and limitations set forth in the permit. The particular amount and conditions of the bond shall be consistent with the purposes of this article. In the event of a breach of condition of any such bond, the city or its designee may collect such bond or institute an action in a court of competent jurisdiction upon such bond and prosecute the action to judgement and execution.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(3), § 7)
Sec. 38-210. - Permit; application.
Application shall be made to the building inspector or other person so designated by the city council. The applicant shall pay a filing fee as specified by the city council. Filing fees up to the larger of $500.00 or $100.00 per acre may be required to evaluate the application. This fee may be used to retain expert consultants who will provide services pertaining to functional assessment, mitigation and wetland boundary determinations as deemed necessary by the city council.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(3), § 8.1)
Sec. 38-211. - Duration of permit.
(a)
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within six months from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
(b)
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire 12 months after the date that work ceased.
(c)
Written notice of the pending expiration of the development permit shall be issued by the city council.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(3), § 8.2)
Sec. 38-212. - Penalties.
(a)
When a building or other structure has been constructed in violation of this article, the violator may be required to remove the structure at the discretion of the city council.
(b)
When removal of vegetative cover, excavation or fill has taken place in violation of this article, the violator may be required to restore the affected land to its original contours and to restore vegetation, as far as practicable, at the discretion of the city council.
(c)
If the city council discovers a violation of this article that also constitutes a violation of any provision of the Clean Water Act as amended, the city council shall issue written notification of the violation to the United States Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the landowner.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(3), § 8.3)
Sec. 38-213. - Suspension, revocation.
The city council may suspend or revoke a permit if it finds that the applicant has not complied with the conditions or limitations set forth in the permit or has exceeded the scope of the work set forth in the permit. The city council shall cause notice of denial, issuance, conditional issuance, revocation or suspension of a permit to be published in a daily newspaper having a broad circulation in the area where the wetland is located.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(3), § 8.4)
Sec. 38-214. - Judicial review; alternative actions.
Based on these proceedings and the decision of the county superior court, the city council may, within the time specified by the court, elect to:
(1)
Institute negotiated purchase or condemnation proceedings to acquire an easement or fee interest in the applicant's land;
(2)
Approve the permit application with lesser restrictions or conditions (i.e., grant a variance); or
(3)
Institute other appropriate actions ordered by the court that fall within the jurisdiction of the city council.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(3), § 9)
Sec. 38-215. - Map amendment.
These regulations and the generalized wetland map may from time to time be amended in accordance with procedures and requirements in the general statutes and as new information concerning wetland locations, soils, hydrology, flooding or plant species peculiar to wetlands becomes available.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(3), § 10)
Sec. 38-216. - Relief assessment.
Assessors and boards of assessors shall consider wetland regulations in determining the fair market value of land. Any owner of an undeveloped wetland who has dedicated an easement or entered into a conservation program with the government or a nonprofit organization restricting activities in a wetland shall have that portion of land assessed consistent with those restrictions. Such landowner shall also be exempted from special assessment on the wetland to defray the cost of municipal improvements such as sanitary sewers, storm sewers and water mains.
(Ord. of 12-12-2000(3), § 11)
Secs. 38-217—38-240. - Reserved.
