PART I - CHARTER
FOOTNOTE(S):
(1) Editor's note— Printed herein is the Charter of the city, as adopted by 1962 Ga. Laws (Act No. 829), page 2894. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. The style used for headings and catchlines has been made uniform, and the same system of capitalization and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity such as consistent state statute citations and catchline modifications are indicated by brackets.
ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION, BOUNDARIES

Sec. 1. - Incorporation.
The inhabitants of the territory now embraced in the corporate limits of the City of Quitman, located in the County of Brooks, State of Georgia, are hereby incorporated and made a City under the name and style of the City of Quitman, hereinafter referred to as "the city" and by that name shall have perpetual succession. Said city is hereby vested with all the rights, powers and privileges incident to municipal corporations in this state or cities thereof. All rights, powers, titles, property, easements and hereditaments now belonging to the city, and to the board of commissioners thereof, shall be and are hereby vested in the City of Quitman as created by this Charter. Said city may, by its corporate name, sue and be sued, contract and be contracted with, plead and be impleaded, have and use a common seal, and make and enact through its board of commissioners such ordinances, rules, regulations and resolutions for the transaction of its business and for the welfare and proper government of said city as the board of commissioners may deem best, and which shall be consistent with the laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States. The city is empowered to purchase, hold, rent, lease, receipt, sell, exchange, enjoy, possess, and retain in perpetuity, or for any term of years, any estate or estates, real or personal, lands, tenements and hereditaments, of whatsoever kind, within or without the limits of the city, for corporate purposes. Said city is hereby made responsible as a body corporate for the legal debts, liabilities and undertakings of the City of Quitman as heretofore incorporated.
Sec. 2. - Corporate limits.
The corporate limits of the city shall extend one mile in every direction from the present site of the County Courthouse of Brooks County, Georgia.
Editor's note—
Information concerning annexations subsequent to passage of the Charter is available in the office of the city clerk.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

Sec. 3. - Government vested in board of commissioners.
The government of the city shall be vested in a board of commissioners composed of five citizens, who shall be known as the Board of Commissioners for the City of Quitman.
Sec. 4. - Office vacated for failure to perform duties.
Should any member of the board of commissioners fail or refuse to perform the duties of his office for the term of three consecutive months, the office may, in the discretion of the remaining members of the board of commissioners, be declared vacant and the vacancy filled as provided in the following section.
Sec. 5. - Filling vacancies in board of commissioners.
In the event that the office of any one or more members of the board of commissioners shall become vacant by death, resignation, removal or otherwise, the chairman of the board of commissioners, or in case his seat is vacant, the majority of said board, shall order an election for the purpose of filling such vacancy or vacancies by giving notice, such as the board of commissioners may by ordinance provide, publishing said notice in one or more of the newspapers published in the city; and said election shall be held, returns made and results declared in the same manner as in the regular elections for members of the board of commissioners, provided, that in case such vacancy or vacancies occur within 90 days preceding any regular election in the city, said vacancy or vacancies may be filled by the board of commissioners.
Sec. 6. - [Composition; eligibility; residency; term; etc.]
(a)
The board of commissioners shall consist of a chairman and four other members. In order to be eligible for election as chairman or member of the board, a candidate shall be a qualified voter of the City of Quitman and shall have resided in the city for one year next preceding his or her election.
(b)
The chairman of the board may reside anywhere within the city and shall be elected at large by the voters of the entire city. Each other commissioner must be a resident of the commissioner district he or she represents and shall be elected only by the voters residing within that commissioner district. Commissioner District No. 1 shall be represented by Posts No. 1 and 2, and Commissioner District No. 2 shall be represented by Posts No. 3 and 4. The commissioner districts from and by which members of the board shall be elected are described in section 7 of this Act.
(c)
The initial members of the board elected under this section shall be elected at the special election provided for in subsection (d) of this section. Successors to such initial members shall be elected as follows: the chairman shall serve for terms of two years and shall be elected at the regular municipal election held in 1988, and biennially thereafter; Posts No. 1 and 3 shall serve for terms of four years and shall be elected at the regular municipal election held in 1988, and quadrennially thereafter; and Posts No. 2 and 4 shall serve for terms of four years and shall be elected at the regular municipal election held in 1990, and quadrennially thereafter. The terms of all members after the initial members shall begin on the first day of January next following their election. All members shall serve for the terms specified and until their successors are elected and take office.
(d)
The initial members elected under this section shall be elected at a special election to be held in 1987. The chairman and members from Posts No. 1 and 3 shall serve for terms ending December 31, 1988, and the members from Posts No. 2 and 4 shall serve for terms ending December 31, 1990. Said special election shall be called by the municipal election superintendent on a day not less than ten and not more than 20 days after this section becomes effective. The superintendent shall set the date of the special election for a day not less than 30 and not more than 40 days after the date of the call. Except with respect to the terms of the members elected and the date of the special election, all provisions of this Act relating to the regular municipal election shall apply to said special election. The members elected at the special election shall take office immediately following their election; and the prior members of the board shall thereupon cease to hold office.
(1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 437), page 5230, § 1)
Sec. 7. - [Commissioner districts.]
For purposes of electing members of the board of commissioners, the City of Quitman is divided into two commissioner districts. If any part of the city is not described as included within either district, then such part of the city shall be included within the commissioner district which has the least population according to the 1980 decennial census. The two commissioner districts are described by the following boundaries:
Commissioner District No. 1.
Commencing at the center line of the intersection of the right-of-way of North Washington Street and the northern margin of the city limits of the City of Quitman and running south down the center line of Washington Street to the intersection of Courtland Avenue; thence running east on Courtland Avenue to the intersection of Courtland Avenue and North Jefferson Street; thence running south on North Jefferson Street to the intersection of Davis Street; thence running west on Davis Street to Culpepper Street; thence running south on Culpepper Street to Bartow Street; thence running east on Bartow Street to the intersection of Washington Street; thence south on Washington Street to the intersection of Stevens Street; thence west on Stevens Street to the intersection of Walker Street; thence south on Walker Street to the intersection of Railroad Street; thence northeast on Railroad Street to South Court Street; thence south on South Court Street to the Seaboard Coastline Railroad right-of-way; thence southwest along said right-of-way to the city limits; thence run southeasterly along the city limits of the City of Quitman; thence northeasterly along said city limits unto the place or point of beginning.
Commissioner District No. 2.
Commencing at the center line of the intersection of the right-of-way of North Washington Street and the northern margin of the city limits of the City of Quitman and running south down the center line of Washington Street to the intersection of Courtland Avenue; thence running east on Courtland Avenue to the intersection of Courtland Avenue and North Jefferson Street; thence running south on North Jefferson Street to the intersection of Davis Street; thence running west on Davis Street to Culpepper Street; thence running south on Culpepper Street to Bartow Street; thence running east on Bartow Street to the intersection of Washington Street; thence south on Washington Street to the intersection of Stevens Street; thence west on Stevens Street to the intersection of Walker Street; thence south on Walker Street to the intersection of Railroad Street; thence northeast on Railroad Street to South Court Street; thence south on South Court Street to the Seaboard Coastline Railroad right-of-way; thence southwest along said right-of-way to the city limits; thence run northwesterly along the city limits to the place or point of beginning.
(1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 437), page 5230, § 1)
Sec. 8. - [Reserved.]
Editor's note—
Section 8, which prescribed the procedure in case of a tie vote in commission elections, was repealed by 1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1011), page 2655, § 1. This information now appears in section 32 of the Charter.
Sec. 9. - Oath [of] commissioners.
On or before the first day of January of each year the commissioner or commissioners elected shall be notified of their election and shall appear before a judge or clerk of some court of record or before some justice of the peace and take and subscribe the following oath or affirmation: "I swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully and impartially demean myself as a member of the Board of Commissioners for the City of Quitman during my continuance in office and in all things pertaining to my office. I will be governed by what in my judgment is for the public good and the best interest of the City of Quitman, so help me God."
Sec. 10. - Compensation of commissioners.
(a)
That the monthly compensation for each member of the Board of Commissioners of the City of Quitman, except the chairman, shall be $600.00 per month. The chairman shall receive the sum of $800.00 per month.
(b)
Each member of the board of commissioners shall be reimbursed for expenses actually and necessarily incurred in their capacity as a commissioner of the Board of Commissioners of the City of Quitman in carrying out their official duties.
(c)
This section shall become effective upon the taking of office of those elected to the next regular municipal election following the date of the adoption of this section.
(d)
All ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
(1977 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 466), page 3604, § 1; Ord. No. 330, §§ 1, 2, 3-2-1987; Ord. No. 442, 1-3-1995; Ord. No. 520, 6-14-2005)
Sec. 11. - Time commissioners to devote to office; commission meetings, voting.
The members of the board of commissioners shall devote as much of their time to their duties as may be necessary. The said board of commissioners shall meet at least once each month at stated periods, and shall hold its meetings in public except when it deems executive session necessary, shall keep minutes of its proceedings, and shall record all its actions. All votes shall be taken by "aye" and "no" and shall appear on the minutes. It shall be required to meet at such times and as often in extra meetings as any two of them or the chairman may designate or call.
Sec. 12. - Appointment of chairman.
[The provision under this section has been omitted at the discretion of the city as superseded by 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 437), page 5230, § 1, which amended section 6 in its entirety and replaced it with a new section 6.]
Sec. 13. - Chairman pro tem.
The chairman of the board of commissioners shall appoint one of the commissioners chairman pro tem, who shall exercise the routine duties of the chairman in case of the chairman's absence or inability to act for any reason.
Sec. 14. - Administrative duties of chairman; authority to vote.
The chairman of the board of commissioners shall be the chief executive officer of the city. He shall preside at all meetings of the board of commissioners and shall have the right to vote on any matter coming before the board when his vote will be decisive. He shall have the power to convene the board in extra session whenever in his judgment it becomes necessary.
(1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 343), page 2944, § 1)
Sec. 15. - Interest in contracts prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any member of the board of commissioners to be interested either directly or indirectly, in any contract having for its object the improvement of the city or any part thereof, or providing for the expenditure of its money. Any violation of this section by any member of the board of commissioners shall, on conviction thereof, be punished as for misdemeanors under the Georgia Code.
Sec. 16. - Quorum, vote required.
Four members of the board of commissioners shall constitute a quorum for transaction of any business before the board, and the majority of the votes cast shall determine questions before the board; provided, that every question so determined or ordinance passed shall receive not less than three votes.
Sec. 17. - Powers of commission specified.
In addition to all other powers conferred by this Charter or by general law, the board of commissioners shall have full power and authority to:
(a)
Adopt ordinances binding on everyone within the city to protect the health, space, safety, good order, dignity and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants.
(b)
Codify all ordinances, rules or regulations, and to adopt said codification by ordinance. A copy of said codification, when duly certified as being a true copy by the city clerk, shall be received in evidence in all courts of this state.
(c)
Exercise full and complete control over the streets, sidewalks, curbs, gutters and public places in the city, and shall have authority to regulate the use or occupancy thereof. The board of commissioners shall have the authority to compel the removal of any poles or wires which have become a nuisance and interfere with traffic or travel on the streets, to any location designated by the board of commissioners, and in case the owner of such poles or wires shall fail to remove them within a reasonable time after being notified to do so, the board of commissioners shall have the authority to remove the same at the expense of the owner.
(d)
Condemn property for the purpose of laying out new streets and alleys, and for widening, straightening and grading or in any way changing street lines and sidewalks of the city, and for other public works and improvements. When the board of commissioners shall desire to exercise the power and authority herein granted, it may be done whether the land to be condemned is in the hands of an owner, trustee, executor, administrator, guardian or agent, in the manner provided by Chapters 36-2 through 36-6, inclusive, of the Georgia Code [O.C.G.A. § 22-2-1 et seq.].
(e)
Exercise full and complete authority and power in its discretion to close, vacate or abandon any streets, sidewalks, alleys or squares by appropriate ordinance, and shall have authority and power to quitclaim any interest of the city to any streets, sidewalks, alleys or squares vacated, closed or abandoned.
(f)
Prescribe by ordinance such rules as the board of commissioners in its discretion may deem necessary to grade, pave, curb or otherwise improve the streets, alleys and ways in said city and to enforce by execution the costs thereof on adjacent property.
(g)
Remove or cause to be removed any buildings, steps, fences, gates, posts or other obstructions or nuisances in the public streets, lanes, alleys, sidewalks or other public places in the city. Provided, however, that the board of commissioners shall have authority to grant for a fair and reasonable consideration, which shall be paid into the city treasury, the right to erect, maintain and also to sanction the continuance of any structure, or encroachment on any street, alley, sidewalk or other property of said city, upon such terms as the board of commissioners may fix by ordinance, but no such grant shall be made for a term longer than ten years, provided further that in making such grant the board of commissioners shall have due regard for the interests of the property holders of the city affected thereby.
(h)
Organize one or more work gangs and confine therein persons who have been sentenced by the police court to work upon the public works of the city, and shall have the power to make rules and regulations suitable or necessary for the care or control of said gangs.
(i)
Establish a system of numbering buildings in the city, assign appropriate street numbers to said buildings, and compel said buildings to be numbered.
(j)
Establish and operate systems of waterworks, sewerage, electrical generation or distribution, or natural, artificial or liquid gas, or any of them, for the purpose of supplying its inhabitants and the city, as well as consumers generally, with water, electricity, sewerage or gas, or any of them. The board of commissioners shall have the right and power to do any and all things necessary for such purposes, to contract with any person or persons for the purchase of land or premises to be used in connection therewith, whether within or without the city, and if necessary to condemn the same as provided in section 65 of this Charter. The board of commissioners shall have the power and authority to make contracts for the purchase of plants, machinery and other equipment, and to contract with the inhabitants of the city and with consumers beyond the city for the furnishing of such utilities.
(k)
Exercise full and absolute control of all city pipes, sewers, private drains, plumbing, plumbing fixtures, and the like in the city, with full power to prescribe their location, structure and use, and to make such regulations concerning them in all particulars as may seem best for the preservation of the health and comfort of the inhabitants of the city. The board of commissioners shall have full power and authority to prescribe the kind of plumbing and plumbing fixtures to be used in the city, and shall have the owner to condemn and compel the disuse of the same when they do not conform to the kind prescribed for use by the board of commissioners, or whenever they shall become a nuisance. They shall also have power and authority to compel the owners to connect their premises with the sanitary sewer system of the city when the property is located on or near a street where there are such sewers, and such connections shall be under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the board of commissioners. If property owners fail to make such connections within the time prescribed by the board of commissioners, the board may make such connections and assess the cost thereof against the real estate.
(l)
Declare by ordinance what shall be a nuisance in the city and provide for the abatement of same, either at the expense of the city or of the owners or occupants of the property on which said nuisances exist. The police court in the city shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the board of commissioners in respect to the trial and abatement of all nuisances in the city.
(m)
Enact ordinances for the purpose of preventing the spread of any contagious or infectious disease, declare and maintain quarantine regulations against such diseases, and punish for violations of any of said quarantine regulations. They shall have power to build or establish a hospital or clinic within or without the city, and to compel the removal thereto of any person or persons having a contagious disease when in their judgment it is best for the welfare and health of the city. They shall have the power to compel all persons to be vaccinated, whether they be permanent residents or sojourners, and may provide vaccination points and employ physicians at the expense of the city to vaccinate all persons who are unable to procure said vaccination, and they may provide by ordinance for the punishment of persons failing to be vaccinated.
(n)
Provide for the inspection of steam boilers and regulate or prevent the storage or use of combustible or explosive substances or materials within the city.
(o)
Provide for the prevention of fire within the city and for the protection of life and property therefrom.
(p)
Establish fire limits and prescribe by ordinance such rules and regulations as they see fit for the regulation of buildings erected within the city, or for the repair or maintenance of said buildings, and they may prescribe the materials to be used and the manner of erecting, repairing, or maintaining the same. They shall have the power to compel changes in construction or arrangement or may compel the removal of building or of fixtures therein when in their judgment the same are dangerous, or likely to be so, or are in violation of the ordinances of the city, and may make the owner or occupant of the premises pay the expenses of the change or removal, which expenses may be collected by execution in the same manner as taxes.
(q)
Pass all by-laws and ordinances respecting public property, whether real or personal, care of the poor, supervision of disorderly houses, and for the prevention of disorderly conduct, liable to disturb the peace or tranquility of any citizen therein.
(r)
Pass ordinances and regulations preventing idleness, vagrancy and loafing on the streets or other public places within the city and prescribe a penalty for the violation thereof.
(s)
Regulate and prevent the running at large within the city of animals of all kinds and descriptions, impound such animal or animals when found upon the streets of the city, and charge such impounding fees as they may prescribe. In addition thereto, the board of commissioners may charge for the keep of any animal or animals so impounded. When the owner or owners of any animal or animals shall fail or refuse to pay the impounding fee and cost of keeping said animal or animals, said animal or animals may be sold at public auction and the proceeds applied to the payment of said fee and cost under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the board of commissioners.
(t)
Protect all places of divine worship and cemetery in the city, and provide one or more cemeteries for the burial of the dead, either within or without the city, regulate interments therein, and expend annually a sufficient sum for the proper keeping of said cemetery or cemeteries.
(u)
Authorize by ordinance the marshal or any policeman of the city to summon any or all bystanders to aid in the arrest of any person or persons violating any ordinance of the city, or any law of this state, and provide a punishment for any person or persons failing or refusing to obey such summons.
(v)
Pass such ordinances as they may think proper to prohibit, regulate or license the sale, possession, distribution or consumption of spirituous, vinous, malt, or intoxicating liquors within the city, and may abate violations of such ordinances as nuisances. The marshal and policemen of the city shall have full power and authority to enter, and if necessary, to break open and enter, any place in the city which the board of commissioners may have reasonable cause to believe, or may suspect to be a place where spirituous, vinous, malt or intoxicating liquors are sold in violation of law or of any ordinance of the city, and to seize the stock of said liquors and the apparatus for selling the same. Upon the conviction of any person for maintaining a nuisance, as above stated, and as a punishment for same, the board of commissioners, or the chairman thereof, shall have full power and authority to cause the marshal and policemen of the city to seize and destroy the stock of liquors of said person and the apparatus for selling same; and to otherwise punish the offender or offenders as may be prescribed by ordinance.
(w)
Issue and sell bonds for the purpose of paying bonds of the city and interest thereon, and for any public or other purpose allowed by the Constitution and laws of this state, and to issue and sell revenue anticipation certificates as now or hereafter allowed by law.
(x)
Regulate vehicular and pedestrian traffic in the city, and relieve congestion of the same by use of devices known as parking meters, by means of which the time a vehicle occupies a designated area for parking is measured by a timing device operated by depositing a coin therein, and may use the proceeds from the operation of parking meters to pay for off-street parking facilities or to contract with one or more other persons, firms or corporations to provide such off-street parking facilities. The city may rent such facilities and use the rents therefrom to further provide off-street parking facilities.
(y)
The city is hereby authorized to purchase, construct, operate, and maintain a system for reception, transmission, and distribution of television impulses and television energy including audio, digital, and visual images by means of electrical impulses within the city limits as it now exists or shall hereinafter exist and into such parts of the unincorporated adjacent areas to the City of Quitman as may be approved hereinafter by the board of commissioners of the City of Quitman as allowed by law. Additionally, the city shall be allowed to furnish two-way teleconferencing service, alarm or telemetry service, four- or two-way intercommunicating, one way paging notification, public service announcements, or any other service which technology may permit in conjunction with the operation and distribution of signals through a cable system. The city is authorized to acquire by contract or purchase all equipment, towers, receivers, lines and related apparatus, all rights-of-way, easements and other property necessary to carry out these purposes, including the use of all existing city rights-of-way, easements, and other property. The city is further authorized to empower, furnish, and supply the distribution of television impulses and television energy as aforesaid to any person, firm, or corporation at the point of reception thereof by the city or at any point where the city may hereafter have means of distribution thereof and to affix rules and regulations under which the same may be furnished and distributed and likewise, to affix the terms upon which the same are to be furnished, the matter of payment therefore, and the charges to be paid therefor, the rate of charges to be established from time to time by resolution of the board of commissioners of the City of Quitman. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the city from granting franchises for the private operation of a like system of reception, transmission, and distribution of television impulses and television energy and related services aforesaid.
(Ord. No. 433, 1-4-1994)
Sec. 18. - Zoning powers.
The board of commissioners may, in the interest of public health, safety, order, convenience, comfort, prosperity, or general welfare, adopt by ordinance a plan or plans for the districting or zoning of the city for the purpose of regulating the location of trades, industries, apartment houses, dwellings, or other uses of property; or for the purpose of regulating the height of the buildings, fences, or other structures, or the area or dimensions of lots or of the yards used in connection with buildings or other structures, or for the purpose of regulating the alignment of buildings or other structures near street frontage. The city may be divided into such number of zones or districts, and such districts may be of such shape and area as the board of commissioners shall deem best suited to accomplish the purpose of the zoning regulations. In the determinations and establishment of districts and regulations, classification may be based on the nature or character of the trade, industry or other activity conducted, or to be conducted, upon the premises; the number of persons, families, or other group units to reside in or use buildings; the public, quasi-public, or private nature of the use of premises; or upon any other basis or bases relevant to the promotion of the public health, safety, order, morals, conveniences, prosperity, or welfare. Said board of commissioners may provide by ordinance for a zoning commission to be composed of not more than three members to be elected by the board of commissioners and to prescribe their powers and duties; is authorized to provide the method of appeal from finding of said zoning commission; and to provide for a board of zoning appeals, to be elected by said board of commissioners; to hear such appeals, and to provide their powers and duties; and to provide for the right of certiorari from said board of zoning appeals to the Superior Court of Brooks County.
In addition to the above power of planning and zoning, the city is authorized to adopt any Act of the General Assembly conferring planning and zoning powers upon municipalities, counties or municipalities and counties.
Sec. 19. - Penalty for violating ordinances or Charter.
Any violation of this Charter or any ordinance of the city shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, imprisonment in the city prison or in the county jail (having previously arranged therefor with the county authorities) not to exceed six months, and to work upon the streets or other public places as the board of commissioners or marshal may designate not to exceed six months. Any one or more of these punishments may be inflicted by the court in its discretion, and the fine imposed may be collected by execution. Each day any such violation shall continue shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 285, § 1, 9-6-1983)
ARTICLE III. - APPOINTIVE OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND COMMISSIONS

Sec. 20. - Appointment of officers; oath, bond.
At the first regular meeting of the board of commissioners, which shall be held within 30 days after the commissioners are elected, they shall elect a city clerk and a city treasurer, which offices may be consolidated, a city manager, a city marshal who may be chief of police, as many policemen as in the judgment of the said board of commissioners shall be necessary, a city attorney and such other officers as the board of commissioners shall deem necessary in the government of the city. Each of said officers shall take such oaths and give such bond as the board of commissioners may by ordinance prescribe. All bonds of officers shall be made payable to the city.
Sec. 21. - Commission to ratify appointment, fix term, prescribe duties, set salary, discharge.
The board of commissioners shall have the power to ratify the election and employment of all officers, agents and employees of the city, and is authorized to fix the term of office and employment, to prescribe the duties, to name the compensation, to ratify the discharge from service without cause or notice of any officer, employee, or agent of the city, or to discharge such officer, employee or agent as provided in section 24 (j) of this Charter, and to designate the office and employment by such name as the commission deems expedient, except as in this Charter otherwise provided.
Sec. 22. - Powers of marshal.
The marshal of the city shall be empowered to levy and collect all executions in favor of the city, to advertise and sell property levied on thereunder, and to make all deeds where sales are made under executions. The marshal shall have the same authority to place purchasers at marshal sales in possession as sheriffs of this state have, and deeds to real estate sold by the marshal under execution shall have the same force and effect and shall be admitted in evidence as are sheriffs' deeds in this state. The marshal shall have such other and further powers and duties as may be conferred or imposed upon him by ordinance by the board of commissioners.
Sec. 23. - Authority of police to arrest, confine offenders.
It shall be lawful for the marshal or any policeman of the city to arrest without warrant any person committing an offense against the ordinances of the city or the laws of the state in his presence, or if the offender is endeavoring to escape, or if for any cause there is likely to be a failure of justice for want of an officer to issue a warrant, and said marshal or policeman is authorized to hold such person so arrested until a hearing of the matter can be had before the proper officers. To this end said arresting officers are authorized to confine any person arrested by them in the city prison or in the jail of Brooks County for a reasonable length of time. The marshal and policemen of the city are authorized to the same extent as sheriffs of this state to execute warrants placed in their hands charging any person or persons with violating the criminal laws of this state. The marshal and policemen of the city are also authorized to arrest anywhere within the limits of this state, upon warrant, any person charged with violating any of the ordinances of the city.
Sec. 24. - City manager—Appointment, powers, duties.
The city manager shall be the administrative head of the municipal government and shall be responsible for the efficient administration of all departments. He shall devote his entire time to his office.
He shall be appointed without regard to his residence, political beliefs or affiliation. During the absence or disability of the city manager the board of commissioners may designate some properly qualified person to execute the functions of the office. The powers and duties of the city manager shall be:
(a)
To see that all laws and ordinances are enforced.
(b)
To exercise control over all departments and divisions of the city, or which may be hereafter created by the board of commissioners.
(c)
To attend all meetings of the board of commissioners, with the right to take part in all discussions, but having no vote.
(d)
To recommend to the board of commissioners for adoption such measures as he may deem necessary and expedient.
(e)
To prepare and submit to the board of commissioners an annual budget.
(f)
To keep the board of commissioners fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the city.
(g)
To supervise and direct the official conduct of all appointive city officers, except as otherwise provided in this Charter.
(h)
To supervise the performance of all contracts made by any person for work done for the city, and to make all purchases of materials and supplies for the city under rules and regulations of the board of commissioners.
(i)
To perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or as may be required of him by ordinance or resolution of the board of commissioners.
(j)
To appoint and discharge all subordinate officers and employees in all departments; all appointments to be made upon merit and fitness alone; said right of appointment and discharge being subject to the ratification and approval of the board of commissioners at its next regular meeting after such appointment or discharge; provided, however, that if the board of commissioners shall desire the discharge of any officer or employee of the city and the manager shall, upon demand of the board of commissioners, refuse to discharge such officer or employee, said board of commissioners may, by proper order passed at a regular meeting, discharge such officer or employee.
Sec. 25. - Same—Salary, removal.
The board of commissioners shall fix the compensation or salary of the city manager. The city manager may be removed from his office or employment at any time by a majority vote of the board of commissioners without cause or notice.
Sec. 26. - Same—Reports to commission.
The board of commissioners may require the city manager to come before them at any time and answer questions either orally or in writing and may require from said city manager, at any time they see fit, written reports upon any matter involving the city that they deem proper. The city manager shall report monthly to the board of commissioners his general actions and doings, and shall regularly at stated intervals, at least quarterly, file full and complete reports of the various departments of the city.
Sec. 27. - Bond commission—Authorized; duties.
The board of commissioners shall have the power and authority to create a bond commission, which shall be composed of three freeholders of the city and shall be chosen as follows: The board of commissioners may, at any time after the passage of this Charter, select three freeholders from the citizens of the city to constitute said bond commission. Members of said commission shall serve for terms of three years and until their successors are chosen and qualified; provided, however, that the ordinance establishing said commission shall provide that the initial three appointees thereto shall serve for terms of one, two and three years respectively. The bond commission shall handle and control such sums as shall from time to time be turned over to them for the purpose of raising a sinking fund for the redemption of the bonds which now exist, or which may hereafter exist, as well as provide for the interest which may become due on the bonds previously issued or any bonds which may be issued by the city in the future.
Sec. 28. - Same—Duties of treasurer, board of commissioners.
The city treasurer shall immediately open up an account on his books with the bond commission of the city, when such a commission shall be created, and shall turn over to said commission all taxes collected under existing laws, or which may be raised in the future for the purpose of paying any bonded debt, or any interest thereon due or against the city. The board of commissioners shall pay over to the bond commission annually a sufficient sum to pay the accruing interest on the amount required by law to be held as a sinking fund for the final redemption of any bonded indebtedness.
ARTICLE IV. - ELECTIONS

Sec. 29. - Eligibility to vote in city elections.
All persons qualified to vote for members of the General Assembly of this state, and who shall have paid all taxes legally imposed and demanded by the authorities of the city, and shall have resided in the city six months prior to the election at which they offer to vote, and shall have registered as required by the registration laws of said city, shall be qualified to vote at any election provided for in this Charter.
Sec. 30. - Commission to provide for registration.
The board of commissioners shall have power to provide for the registration of voters, make all needful laws and regulations therefor, and require that no person be permitted to vote in any election unless registered; provided that the books of registration shall be open at least 40 days immediately preceding any city election which may be held in said city, and shall be closed ten days before said election; and provided, when any voter has registered for the regular annual election for members of the board of commissioners no further registration shall be required of said voter at any intermediate election for officers held during the year immediately succeeding the date when he so registered; but it shall be the duty of the official or officials making out the list of voters for the managers at such intermediate election to purge the list of names of persons who may have become disqualified since the last regular election for members of the board of commissioners. The board of commissioners shall pass an appropriate ordinance effectuating this section.
Sec. 31. - Prohibited campaign practices.
No candidate for the board of commissioners shall solicit votes for himself or others, or promise to appoint him to office, or promise to vote for such person or any other person for any office or employment under the city. The board of commissioners shall have the authority to designate and define what shall constitute solicitation of votes. Any violation of this section shall be punished as provided in section 19 of this Charter.
Sec. 32. - Where election held; hours; majority required[; runoffs].
(a)
Where election held; hours; vote required. All elections shall be held at the county agricultural annex or such other polling place or polling places as are designated by the board of commissioners, and the voting shall be by ballot. The polls shall be opened at 7:00 a.m. and closed at 7:00 p.m. The candidate seeking Commission Post 1, 2, 3, or 4 receiving a majority of the votes cast for a particular post in the election shall be elected to said post. In the event no candidate for a particular post receives a majority of the votes cast for that post, there shall be a runoff election between the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes. In the event two candidates receive the same number of votes and such number of votes is exceeded only by that number received by the candidate receiving the highest number of votes, those two candidates shall have a runoff election on the seventh day after the date of holding the first election in order to see who shall enter the runoff election with the candidate who received the highest number of votes. In the event of a tie vote in a runoff election, the same two candidates shall have a second runoff election on the seventh day following the first runoff election.
(b)
The position of chairman shall be elected by a plurality vote. The candidate for chairman receiving the most votes shall be elected to the said office. In the event that there is a tie vote between the candidates receiving the highest number of votes, then there shall be a runoff election between the said candidates. Except as otherwise provided herein, a runoff election shall be governed by the provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code ["Georgia Election Code," O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.].
(1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1011), page 2655, § 2; 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 437), page 5233, § 2)
Sec. 33. - Appointment, compensation, oath of election managers.
All elections held under the provisions of this Charter, and all elections in which any subject or question is submitted to the qualified voters of the city, shall be managed by a justice of the peace, or some other judicial officer, and two freeholders who are citizens of the city and own real estate therein; or by three freeholders, all of whom shall be citizens of said city and own real estate therein. Said managers shall be appointed by the board of commissioners, which shall determine and provide for their pay and for the pay of any clerks that may be necessary for the holding of the election. Each of said managers, before entering on his duties, shall take and subscribe before some justice of the peace, or some other officer qualified to administer oaths, or before each other, the following oath:
"Each of us do swear that we will faithfully and impartially conduct this election, and prevent all illegal voting to the best of our skill and power, so help me God."
Said managers shall keep, or cause to be kept, copies of two lists of voters and two tally-sheets.
Sec. 34. - Declaring results.
The said managers shall certify two lists of voters and two tally-sheets, and shall place one list of voters and one tally-sheet in the ballot boxes together with the ballots, seal the ballot boxes, and forthwith deliver the same to the ordinary of Brooks County, Georgia. The other shall be placed in a package and sealed and forthwith delivered to the city clerk, who shall safely keep the same, and at the first meeting of the board of commissioners occurring after the expiration of three days from said election, deliver the said package to the board of commissioners, who shall open the same and declare the results if no notice of contest has been given.
Sec. 35. - Time of elections; certificate of election.
Elections for commissioners shall be held annually on the first Tuesday in December, under the rules and regulations provided by this Charter and such other rules and regulations as may be hereafter adopted by the board of commissioners, for the election of a commissioner or commissioners to succeed the commissioner or commissioners whose term of office expires January 1 following, and the managers of the elections shall give the persons elected a certificate of election, which certificate will entitle the holder to be installed in the office.
Editor's note—
Section 35 of this Charter has been superseded by O.C.G.A. § 21-2-9(b), which requires that "[a]ll general municipal elections to fill municipal offices shall be held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November in each odd-numbered year." The city adheres to this requirement when conducting municipal elections.
Sec. 36. - Contested elections.
If notice of contest has been given, all other proceedings shall be postponed until the contest has been determined; provided, that the contests shall be determined within 15 days after the election has been held. If the result of any election held in the city is contested, notice of said contest shall be filed with the ordinary [Probate Judge] of Brooks County within three days after said election, and upon the payment of $10.00 in advance by the contestant or contestants to said ordinary [Probate Judge], the said ordinary [Probate Judge] shall, within two days after he receives the same, cause a copy of said notice to be served by the sheriff or his deputy on the contestee if said contest is for an office. If the result of any election in which any question is submitted is contested, then said ordinary [Probate Judge] shall also cause notice to be served on the chairman of the board of commissioners and published one time in any newspaper published in the city. Said ordinary [Probate Judge] shall fix the time of hearing said contest, which shall not be later than ten days after service has been effected, provided that both parties shall have five days' notice before the hearing. The contestor shall pay the sheriff, or his deputy, the statutory fee for service of process in advance for service and notice of contest. The contest shall be held at the courthouse. Said Ordinary [Probate Judge] is authorized to hear and determine any contest and the losing party shall pay all costs, for which said ordinary is authorized to issue execution.
ARTICLE V. - POLICE COURT [MUNICIPAL COURT]

Sec. 37. - Police court [municipal court] established; appointment, powers of recorder; jurisdiction.
There shall be appointed by the board of commissioners a police recorder [municipal court judge] who shall hold office during the pleasure of the board of commissioners. In the absence or disqualification of the recorder [judge], the chairman of the board of commissioners shall designate a recorder pro hac vice. The recorder [judge] shall hold and preside over a court in the city to be called the police court [municipal court], for the trial of all offenses against the laws and ordinances of said city as often as may be necessary. Said court shall have the power to preserve order, compel the attendance of witnesses and compel the production of books and papers to be used in evidence. Said court shall have the power to punish all violations of the Charter or any ordinances of the city with penalties as prescribed in section 19 of this Charter. The court shall also have the power, if the offense charged is beyond its jurisdiction, to examine into the facts of the case, and commit the offender or offenders to jail, or bail them, if the offense is bailable by a justice of the peace under the laws of this state, to appear before the Superior Court of Brooks County, Georgia.
Sec. 38. - Authority to grant continuances, require appearance bonds.
The police recorder [municipal court judge], when any person or persons are arraigned before the police court [municipal court] charged with a violation of any of the ordinances, regulations or rules of the city, may for good cause shown by either side continue the hearing to such times as the case may be adjourned to, and the accused may be required to give bond as security for his appearance at the appointed time for trial, or be imprisoned to await trial. If such bond be given and the accused fails to appear at the time fixed for trial, the bond may be forfeited by the recorder [judge] and an execution issued thereon by serving the defendant, if found, and his sureties, with a rule nisi at least five days before the hearing of the said rule nisi.
Sec. 39. - Appeals from police court [municipal court].
Any person convicted by the police court [municipal court] may enter an appeal from the judgment of said court to the board of commissioners; provided the appeal shall be entered within two days after the judgment complained of is pronounced; and provided further, the defendant shall pay the accrued costs in the case and give bond to abide the final judgment of the case, which bond must be approved by the city clerk or marshal. The board of commissioners shall as early thereafter as practical hear and determine said case so appealed, and shall investigate the case fully as if same had not been tried, that is, de nova. They shall have power, if they find the defendant guilty, to decrease or increase the fine imposed by the recorder [judge]. Any person convicted by the board of commissioners on appeal shall have the right of certiorari to the Superior Court of Brooks County; provided, all costs are first paid and bond and security given in double the amount of the fine imposed, if a fine is imposed, to answer the final judgment rendered in the case; and provided further, nothing in this section shall prevent the defendant who desires to appeal his case to the board of commissioners, or to certiorari the same the superior court, to file the usual pauper affidavit in lieu of giving of the bond and security and any of the costs in the above; and provided, further, the applicant failing to give the bond and security may, in the discretion of the recorder [judge], be placed in the city prison or county jail to await the final judgment on the appeal abovementioned. Certiorari shall be governed by the same rules that govern other certioraris, except as above specified.
ARTICLE VI. - IMPROVEMENTS AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS GENERALLY

Sec. 40. - Streets, sidewalks—Authority to improve.
The board of commissioners shall have power and authority to pave, drain, trestle, bridge or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, sidewalks or public places without giving any street railway, or any other property holder or occupant of the street, the option of having the streets paved by itself or himself, or by a contract at its or his instance.
Sec. 41. - Same—Maximum assessment for improvements.
Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, an abutting land owner shall not be liable for more than one-third of the costs of draining, paving, trestling, bridging or otherwise improving any street, alleys, sideway or public place, provided, that for such work done and improvements made on any sidewalk or street or portion thereof situated in any section or part of the city outside the fire limits, except on Screven Street, and that part of Washington between the right-of-way of the A.C.L. railway and the said Screven Street, the property owners shall not be assessed more than 25 percent of the cost of such improvements, work done on and paving of the streets and paving of the sidewalks on which said lot or plot of land abuts, unless the majority of the property owners on a street or any portion desired to be improved or paved, shall petition the board of commissioners to make such improvement or to pave said street or sidewalk, in which event each property owner shall pay one-third, or such portion of the costs of such improvement as may be agreed on between the said property owners and the board of commissioners.
Sec. 42. - Same—Equalization of assessments for improvements; lien declared.
Whenever in this Charter the board of commissioners is required or authorized to assess the cost of any street improvements, paving, drainage or other public improvements against the property owners benefited thereby, said board of commissioners shall have full power to adopt by ordinance a system of equalizing assessments on real estate therefor, and prorate the costs thereof on real estate according to its frontage on the streets or portion of the street improved. The amount of assessment on each piece of real estate shall be a lien on said real estate from the passage of the ordinance providing for the work and making the assessment. Said lien shall have rank and priority in point of dignity to all lines except liens for taxes.
Sec. 43. - Same—Collection of assessments by execution and sale.
The board of commissioners shall have full power and authority to enforce collection for the amount of any assessment so made by execution issued by the city clerk against the real estate so assessed, or against the owner thereof at the date of the ordinance making such assessment, which execution may be levied by the marshal of the city on such real estate after advertising and other proceedings as in case of tax sales. The same shall be sold at public outcry to the highest bidder and such sale shall pass absolute title to the purchaser. The city marshal shall have power to eject the occupants and to put the purchaser in possession; provided, that the defendant shall have the right to file his affidavit tendering the whole or part of the amount for which execution is given, and estimating the amount he admits to be due, which amount with all costs shall be paid and collected before the affidavit shall be received for the balance, and the affidavit shall be returned to the Superior Court of Brooks County, and there be tried, and shall be determined as in cases of illegality, subject to all penalties as in case of illegality filed for delay.
Sec. 44. - Street lighting, sewers, other improvements in streets authorized; special assessments.
The board of commissioners shall have full power and authority to pass all laws and ordinances to provide for the lighting of the streets of the city, and to provide for the erection of an improved lighting system upon such streets as the board of commissioners shall determine, and to provide for the erection of posts and the laying of conduits, wires and cables therefor, and to provide for the laying of storm sewers, sanitary sewers and other public improvements in such streets of the city as the board of commissioners may determine, and to provide for the payment of the expenses of the erection and laying of such lighting system, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, and other such public improvements, and to provide what proportion of said expense for the erection and laying of such improved lighting system, storm sewers, sanitary sewers and other such improvements shall be paid by the city and what proportion of said expense shall be paid by the adjacent landowners, and to provide for notice to be given to the said adjacent landowners of the proposed erection and laying of such lighting system, storm sewers, sanitary sewers and other public improvement, and to provide for a hearing of any objections which may be made by said adjacent landowners as to the necessity for and the legality of and the amount to be assessed against said adjacent landowners to pay for said public improvements, provided, however, that the board of commissioners may not assess against the adjacent landowners more than one-half of the cost of erecting and laying of such improved lighting system, storm sewers, sanitary sewers and other public improvements, and not more than one-fourth of the said cost shall be assessed against the adjacent landowners on each side of the street in which such lighting system and sewers and other public improvements are laid.
Sec. 45. - Railroads required to repair, maintain streets near tracks.
Any railroad now having or which may hereafter have tracks running through or across the streets, avenues, alleys or lands of the city, or other public places, shall be required by the board of commissioners to pave and drain the width of its track and two feet on each side of every line of track now constructed or that may hereafter be constructed by such railroad company. If such railroad company shall fail or refuse to comply with the order of the board of commissioners to make such improvements by paving, macadamizing, and draining the same after receiving 30 days' notice to do so, such work may be done by the board of commissioners at the cost and expense of such railroad company. The city shall be entitled to a lien for the full amount of such cost and expense against the property of such railroad company, which may be enforced against such property as provided for enforcement of other liens for paving.
ARTICLE VII. - FINANCE

Sec. 46. - Annual financial statement required.
The board of commissioners shall each year cause to be printed a detailed, itemized statement of receipts and disbursements of the city and a summary of its preceding year.
Sec. 47. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city shall be from the first day of July through the 30th day of June of each year.
Sec. 48. - Budget.
The board of commissioners shall adopt a budget for each fiscal year, and no money shall be expended during any fiscal year until a budget has been prepared and adopted. After the budget has been adopted, the board of commissioners may transfer or reallocate funds, with the exception of appropriations for debt service. Should the income of the city be decreased by law or otherwise during any year, it shall be the duty of the board of commissioners to immediately adjust its budget so as to comply with such decreased revenue. In the event of an increased revenue, which increase has become definite and reasonably certain, the board of commissioners may revise the budget to take into consideration such increased revenue.
Sec. 49. - Borrowing to cover casual deficits.
The board of commissioners shall have authority to borrow money to meet casual deficiencies in the revenues of the city, but loans for such purpose shall not extend over a period longer than 12 months.
Sec. 50. - Payment of expenditures.
All expenditures of the city of the amount of $1,000.00 or more shall be paid out of the city funds by an order drawn by the city clerk and countersigned by the chairman of the board of commissioners or, in his absence, by the chairman pro tem. All expenditures of less than $1,000.00 shall be paid on an order drawn by the city clerk and countersigned by the city manager.
Sec. 51. - Authority to appropriate from general fund for schools.
The power of the board of commissioners to make appropriations shall include the power to appropriate from the general funds of the city treasury, from whatsoever sources such funds are derived, such sums as may be needed by the board of education of the city for the operation and maintenance of the public schools over and above the amount received from the levy of ad valorem or other taxes for school purposes. If the funds derived from taxes levied for school purposes are not sufficient to meet the expenses and costs of operating and maintaining the public schools of the city for the full term prescribed by the authorities in charge of said schools, it shall be the duty of the board of commissioners to appropriate from the general funds of the city sufficient revenue for such purposes. The power to determine whether such funds derived from the levy of taxes for school purposes will be sufficient to meet the aforesaid costs and expenses is hereby vested in the board of commissioners, and said board, in determining such fact, is hereby authorized and empowered to require the officers and members of the board of education, members of the faculty of the public schools, and others having such information, to submit to the board of commissioners records, estimates, budgets, and other data or information relative to the financial needs and costs and expenses of operating the public schools of the city.
ARTICLE VIII. - TAXATION, FEES AND CHARGES

Sec. 52. - Ad valorem taxes authorized.
For the purpose of raising revenue for the support, maintenance and operation of city government and for the purpose of supporting, maintaining and operating the public school system, the board of commissioners shall have full power and authority to provide by ordinance for the assessment and collection of an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city subject to taxation by the city, not to exceed 20 mills upon the value of said property. The board of commissioners shall cause the money derived from the levy for school purposes to be paid over to the board of education of the city, to be administered by said board in accordance with the provisions of the Act of the General Assembly establishing a system of public schools in the city, approved December 26, 1888 [1888 Ga. Laws (Act No. 157), page 337], and the several Acts amendatory thereof.
Sec. 53. - Commission authorized to require returns from taxpayers.
The board of commissioners shall have authority to provide by ordinance for the reporting of all property subject to taxation by the city, and to require all persons owning such property to file a written statement and description of such property and its fair market value, under oath.
Sec. 54. - Tax assessors—Appointment, terms, removal, oath, compensation.
The board of commissioners shall elect three intelligent, discreet, and upright persons, citizens and qualified voters of the city, owners of real estate therein, tax assessors whose terms of office shall be one year. Said city tax assessors may at any time be removed from their office by the board of commissioners with or without cause, to be judged by the board of commissioners, and all vacancies occurring from any cause may be filled by the board of commissioners at any time. Said tax assessors shall take such oaths and receive such compensation as the board of commissioners may prescribe.
Editor's note—
The board of commissioners has designated the Brooks County Tax Assessor to serve as the tax assessor for the City of Quitman.
Sec. 55. - Same—Duty to adjust valuations.
It shall be the duty of the tax assessors to examine the tax returns placed before them by the officer receiving the same, and increase the valuation of real estate and personal property thereof when in their judgment, the value placed thereon by the taxpayer is too small and similarly decrease the same when in their judgment advisable.
Sec. 56. - Same—Authority of commission to regulate procedure for increase in valuation; arbitration.
The board of commissioners shall have power to prescribe rules for the government of the city tax assessors. The city tax assessors shall give to each taxpayer of the city written notice by mail of any increase in the valuation of real estate or personal property determined by them, and of any additional real estate or personal property not returned by said taxpayer upon which a value has been determined for the purpose of assessment of taxes. Each taxpayer shall be given ten days' time after the mailing of said notice in which to appear before the city tax assessors and make objections to the determination by the assessors of said values so fixed by them, and have the right to present such evidence and argument as they may desire in support of said objections. The city tax assessors shall hear said objections and such evidence and argument, if any, before finally determining the value of said real estate and personal property. If any taxpayer shall be dissatisfied with the final determination of said tax assessors, he shall have the right, within five days after said final determination to demand an arbitration of such value and shall notify said board in writing of said demand for said arbitration, specifying the assessment with which he is dissatisfied, and naming in said notice the arbitrator selected by him. The city tax assessors shall, within three days thereafter select an arbitrator, and the two thus selected shall, within five days thereafter, select a third arbitrator. In the event the two arbitrators thus selected shall be unable to agree upon a third arbitrator within said period of five days, the chairman of the board of commissioners shall appoint a third arbitrator. The arbitrators thus chosen shall hear the objecting taxpayer and the city tax assessors upon said objection and shall determine the value of said real estate or personal property for taxation and the value so determined by them shall be final and conclusive upon the city and the taxpayer. In the event the taxpayer shall not make objection to the final assessment as determined by the city tax assessors, or in the event the said arbitrators shall be unable to agree, within ten days after their selection, the assessment as determined by the city tax assessors shall be final.
Sec. 57. - Same—Power to require information from taxpayer.
The city tax assessors shall have power to require taxpayers to furnish them with a list of all notes, accounts, mortgages, stocks, bonds, and other securities and investments, and of their inventories of their stocks of goods, wares and merchandise, and of all other property owned by them when, in their opinion, their production is necessary for a correct assessment.
Sec. 58. - Return by assessors to commission; assessment by commission; double-taxing defaulters.
The city tax assessors shall make returns of the assessment made by them to the board of commissioners. The board of commissioners shall have the power to provide by ordinance for assessing all property, both real and personal, and returned for taxation, and for double-taxing defaulters or property which the owner or taxpayer has failed to return in any year passed.
Sec. 59. - Notice, hearing when property assessed for back taxes.
The board of commissioners may provide by ordinance for notice to parties whose property has been, or may be, assessed for back taxes, and the hearing of any complaint.
Sec. 60. - Commission to determine tax due date, collection procedures.
The board of commissioners shall have the power and authority to provide by ordinance when the taxes of the city shall fall due, and in what length of time said taxes may be paid when tax executions shall be issued against all persons who have not paid their taxes by the time fixed by the ordinance, and to fix a penalty for the nonpayment of taxes when due.
Sec. 61. - Tax execution and sale procedures.
Executions for any and all taxes or fines, license fees, assessments or forfeitures or demands of any sort due the city, or its corporate authorities, against any person or persons, firm, company or corporation, or against any property subject thereto, shall be issued by the clerk of the city, signed by him, bear teste, in the name of the chairman of the board of commissioners and be directed to the marshal of the city, and all and singular the sheriffs and deputy sheriffs and constables of this state, commanding them that of any property belonging to the defendant against whom the said execution is issued, or of the certain property described in the said execution, they make by levy and sale the amount due on said execution with all costs. The board of commissioners shall provide by ordinance for advertising of, method of conducting and all other regulations governing sales by the marshal under city executions. All sheriffs, deputy sheriffs and constables in this state shall have the same power and authority to levy and collect executions issued by the city as they have to levy and collect executions from the various courts in this state.
Sec. 62. - Authority to license businesses.
The board of commissioners shall have full power and authority to require any person, firm, company, corporation or association whether resident or non-resident of the city, who may engage in, prosecute or carry on any trade, business, calling, vocation, or profession within the city, by themselves or by their agents, to register their names, business, calling, vocation or profession annually, and to require said person, company, or corporation to pay for said registration and for a license to prosecute, carry on or engage in any business, calling or profession, such amount as the board of commissioners may provide by ordinance. The board of commissioners shall have authority to require examinations or other qualifications as a condition to the issuance of such licenses.
Sec. 63. - Authority to license gaming devices, tables.
The board of commissioners shall have full power and authority to license coin-operated amusement, vending and gaming devices, billiard tables, pool tables, tenpin alleys, and all tables kept and used for the purpose of playing, gaming or renting, all tenpin alleys, ninepin alleys, or alleys of any kind which are kept for the purpose of playing on, or for the purpose of running same, and to charge for said license such sum as they may by ordinance prescribe.
Sec. 64. - Authority to revoke licenses.
The board of commissioners shall have the right to revoke at any time any license that may be granted by them under the provisions of this Charter, whenever it is sufficiently shown to them the person or persons, firm, company, corporation or association to whom said licenses were granted, is abusing the same, or whenever it is to the best interest of the city to do so.
ARTICLE IX. - UTILITIES

Sec. 65. - Condemnation for municipal utilities.
The board of commissioners shall have full power and authority to contract for, or to condemn any land or premises within or without the city for the purpose of establishing and maintaining an electric light plant, electric distribution system, a waterworks system, a sewerage system, a gas system or any of them; provided, that if the right to condemn herein granted is exercised, all proceedings shall be under the provisions of chapters 36-2 through 36-6, inclusive, of the Georgia Code [O.C.G.A. § 22-2-1 et seq.].
Sec. 66. - Authority to grant utility franchise; referendum.
The board of commissioners shall also have full power and authority to grant the use of the streets and other public property to any person, firm or corporation that will undertake to furnish the city and the public with electricity, water, sewerage or gas, or any of them, and to make such contract with such person, firm or corporation for water, sewerage, electricity or gas, or any of them, as may to the board of commissioners seem proper; provided, that the city shall not be bound by any such contract for a longer period than one year from the making thereof, unless the contract shall have first been approved by a majority vote of the qualified voters of the city at an election to be held for that purpose, of which at least four weeks' notice shall be given in a newspaper of said city by the board of commissioners, which notice shall contain a substantial statement of the proposed contract as well as the time and place of the election. Said election shall be governed by the laws applicable to the regular election of city officers.
Sec. 67. - Authority to regulate use of water, collect water rates.
The board of commissioners shall have the power to regulate the distribution and use of water in all places and for all purposes, and from time to time shall fix the price for the use thereof and for payment; and may regulate such number of public hydrants and in such places as they may see fit, and for what purposes they shall be used; and all of which at their discretion. They shall have power and authority to require the payment in advance for the use and rent of water furnished by them in any building, and in case of failure they may shut off the water from the premises and shall not be required to supply the said building until said arrears, with interest thereon, shall be paid.
ARTICLE X. - MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 68. - Subpoena power of city agencies.
The board of commissioners, the police court, all boards, commissions, committees or other agencies of the city charged with the administration of the affairs of the city, but excluding individual officers unless specifically authorized by law or ordinance, shall have power and authority to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of relevant and admissible documents in proper cases. Any person failing or refusing to attend as a witness or to produce relevant and pertinent evidence within his power, custody or control when so notified or called upon to do so shall be subject to punishment as prescribed in this Charter.
Sec. 69. - Notice of suits against city.
No action for damages to person or property of any character whatever shall be instituted or maintained against the city, unless, within six months from the happening or infliction of the injury complained of, the complainant, his executor or administrator, shall give notice to the board of commissioners of the city of such injury in writing, stating in such notice the date and place of the happening or infliction of such injury, the manner of such infliction, the character of the injury, the names and addresses, if any, of any witnesses to said occurrence, and the amount of damages claimed therefor.
Sec. 70. - Effect of Charter on incumbent officers, employees.
All officers and employees of the city holding office or employed at the time this Charter shall take effect shall continue in said office or employment until the terms for which they shall have been elected or appointed expire or until removed from office pursuant to the provisions of this Charter. Upon the expiration of said terms or the removal of said officers or employees, the vacancies thereby created shall be filled in the manner and for the terms specified in this Charter.
Sec. 71. - Continuation of existing laws, rights, liabilities.
All ordinances and resolutions of the city not inconsistent with this Charter shall remain in full force and effect until altered, amended or repealed. All property and property rights held, owned or possessed by the city and all pending suits or claims by or against the city are preserved unaltered.
Sec. 72. - School acts saved from repeal.
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to in any way repeal or affect the provisions of an act approved December 26, 1888, establishing a public school system for the Town [City] of Quitman, or any Acts amendatory thereof.
Sec. 73. - Repeals.
The following acts of the General Assembly of the State of Georgia are hereby repealed in their entirety:
Georgia Laws 1905, Act No. 272, page 1060, approved August 23, 1905; Georgia Laws 1914, Act No. 311, page 1134, approved July 29, 1914; Georgia Laws 1921, Act No. 171, page 1055, approved August 10, 1921; Georgia Laws 1923, Act No. 512, page 758, approved August 22, 1923; Georgia Laws 1925, Act No. 370, page 1372, approved August 22, 1925; Georgia Laws 1926, Act No. 13, page 185, approved March 23, 1926; Georgia Laws 1935, Act No. 124, page 1168; Georgia Laws, Extra Session 1937-1938, Act No. 81, page 1243, approved December 29, 1937; Georgia Laws 1939, Act No. 46, page 1265, approved January 14, 1939; Georgia Laws 1951, Act No. 234, page 2699, approved February 20, 1951; Georgia Laws 1952, Act No. 585, page 2244, approved January 9, 1952; Georgia Laws 1952, Act No. 543, page 2064, approved February 5, 1952; Georgia Laws 1958, Act No. 256, page 2859, approved March 21, 1958; Georgia Laws 1960, Act No. 733, page 2719, approved March 17, 1960.
All laws or parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO APPLY
FOR THE PASSAGE OF A LOCAL BILL
Notice is hereby given that application will be made to the 1962 Session of the General Assembly of the State of Georgia for the passage of a bill entitled:
An Act to amend, consolidate and supersede the several acts of the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, pertaining to the City of Quitman in the County of Brooks; to provide for the Government of said City; to provide for the officials thereof, and for their selection, oath, bond, compensation and powers and duties; to provide for elections and registration therefor; to provide for a police court in said city; to provide for public improvements and for assessments therefor; to provide for taxation, fees and charges by said city; to provide for the powers, duties and responsibilities of said City; to repeal certain acts of the General Assembly; and for other purposes.
This 12th day of January, 1962.
EXPAND
/s/ J. E. Sheffield, Jr.
GEORGIA, FULTON COUNTY
Personally appeared before me, the undersigned authority, duly authorized to administer oaths, John E. Sheffield, who, on oath, deposes and says that he is Representative from Brooks County, and that the attached copy of Notice of Intention to Introduce Local Legislation was published in The Quitman Free Press, which is the official organ of said County, on the following dates: January 18 and 25, February 1, 1962.
EXPAND
/s/ John E. Sheffield, Jr.
Representative, Brooks County
Sworn to and subscribed before me this 5th day of February, 1962
EXPAND
/s/ Patricia Anne Bowen
Notary Public
(Seal)
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE - GEORGIA LAWS
The Charter of the City of Quitman, Georgia, was adopted by 1962 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 829), page 2894. This table shows the location of amendments to the Charter made by Georgia Laws. For the location of amendments made by ordinance, see the table following this table.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Act. No. Page Section  Section
this Charter
1965 343 2944 1 14
1970 1011 2655 2 32
1977 466 3604 1 10
1987 437 5230 1 6, 7
5233 2 32
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE - ORDINANCES
This table shows the location of amendments to the Charter made by ordinance.
EXPAND
Ordinance
Number Date Section  Section
this Charter
285  9- 6-1983 1 19
330  3- 2-1987 1, 2 10
433  1- 4-1994 17
442  1- 3-1995 10
520  6-14-2005 10
