Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated the "Code of Ordinances, City of Quitman, Georgia," and may be so cited. Such Code may also be cited as the "Quitman Code."
(Code 1962, § 1-1; Code 1986, § 1-1)
State law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances or resolutions, the following definitions and rules shall apply and govern, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners:
Board, board of commissioners, commission, or city commission. The term "board," "board of commissioners," "commission," or "city commission" means the Board of Commissioners of Quitman, Georgia.
Bond. When a bond is required by law, an undertaking in writing, without seal, is sufficient, and in all bonds where the names of the obligors do not appear in the bond, but are subscribed thereto, they shall be bound thereby.
Charter. The term "Charter" means the Charter of the city, as now existing or as hereafter amended or replaced.
City. The term "city" means the City of Quitman, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means this Code as designated in section 1-1.
Commissioner. The term "commissioner" means a member of the board of commissioners.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except, hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. In a provision involving two or more items, conditions, provisions or events, which items, conditions, provisions or events are connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either … or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows:
(1)
"And" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply.
(2
"Or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
"Either … or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly but not in combination.
Corporate limits or city limits. The term "corporate limits" or "city limits" means the corporate limits of the City of Quitman.
County. The term "county" means Brooks County, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" means the court provided by law for the punishment of offenders against the laws or ordinances of the city, whether the same shall be the police court now constituted or a court hereafter established pursuant to law.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires or authorizes the head of a department or an official of the city to do some act or perform some function, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department or the official to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the act or perform the function, unless the terms of the provisions designate otherwise.
Gender. The masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter.
Governing authority or governing body. The term "governing authority" or "governing body" means the board of commissioners of the City of Quitman, Georgia.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
Legislative intent. In all interpretations of this Code or of ordinances or resolutions, the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the board of commissioners, keeping in mind at all times the old law, the evil and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate any provision, and a transposition of words and phrases may be resorted to when a clause or sentence is without meaning as it stands.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive and not mandatory.
May not. The term "may not" states a prohibition.
Minimum requirements. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than another more general provision, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed controlling.
Month and year. The terms "month" and "year" mean a calendar month and calendar year, unless otherwise provided.
Must. The term "must" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Names of officers, departments. The name of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of the City of Quitman" were added thereto.
Nontechnical and technical words. The ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, in which case they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter.
Number. The singular or plural number shall each include the other, unless expressly excluded.
Oath. The term "oath" includes affirmation.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A.," when used in the text or footnotes in this Code, refers to and means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to any individual; any corporation, partnership, association or other entity organized under the laws of any state; any state or subdivision or instrumentality of a state; and any employee, agent or legal representative thereof.
Preceding and following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean generally next before and next after, unless the context requires a different signification.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Signature or subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" include the mark of all illiterate or infirm persons.
State. The term "state" or "this state" mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" includes streets, sidewalks, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes and all other public highways in the city, unless otherwise provided.
Substantial compliance. A substantial compliance with any requirement of this Code or ordinances amendatory thereof, especially on the part of public officers, shall be deemed and held sufficient, and no proceeding shall be declared void for want of such compliance, unless expressly so provided.
Tense. The present or past tense shall include the future.
Writing. The term "writing" includes printing and all numerals and also pictures, illustrations and printed or written designs.
(Code 1962, § 1-2; Code 1986, § 1-2)
State law reference— Rules of construction and definitions generally, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes; references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
(b)
History notes, cross references and state law references that appear in this Code after sections or subsections or that otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of the Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
Unless specified otherwise, all references to chapters or sections are to chapters or sections of this Code.
(Code 1962, § 1-3; Code 1986, § 1-3)
State law reference— Historical notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect. The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or matter covered under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1962, § 1-4; Code 1986, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the board of commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code is declared unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the commission without the incorporation in the Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1962, § 1-5; Code 1986, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Provisions of Code considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to and existing at the time of the effective date of this Code and ordinances adopted subsequent to such Code and included herein, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 1986, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - Miscellaneous ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect or be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money by or for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution granting any franchise or right;
(3)
Any ordinance or resolution appropriating funds, levying or imposing taxes or relating to an annual budget;
(4)
Any ordinance or resolution relating to salaries, compensation or bonds of city officers and employees or members of city boards or commissions or to compensation or pay plans or classification plans for such officers or employees;
(5)
Any ordinance or resolution authorizing, providing for or otherwise relating to any specific public improvement or making any assessment;
(6)
Any ordinance or resolution annexing territory of the city or otherwise altering the boundaries of the city;
(7)
Any zoning ordinance or amendments thereto, and any ordinance establishing a board of zoning appeals, board of architectural review, or planning commission, including joint commissions;
(8)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat or providing for subdivision regulations;
(9)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(10)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing employment and personnel policies and procedures;
(11)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, closing, opening, widening, paving, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(12)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(13)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(14)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
(15)
Any ordinance or resolution of agreement with another political subdivision;
(16)
Any ordinance or regulation prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations concerning through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic, limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones, not in conflict or inconsistent with this Code;
(17)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing the amount of a fee, fine, rate or charge imposed by the provisions of this Code, or any ordinance contained therein or amendatory thereto;
(18)
Any ordinance or resolution adopted for purposes which have been consummated;
(19)
Any ordinance or resolution which is temporary, although general in effect, or special, although permanent in effect; or
(20)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing, accepting or amending a zoning map, thoroughfare map, or thoroughfare plan.
(b)
All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Code 1986, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-8. - Code does not affect prior offenses, rights, etc.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing, or any prosecution, suit or proceeding pending or any judgment rendered, on or before the effective date of this Code.
(Code 1986, § 1-8)
Sec. 1-9. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section ____________ of the Code of Ordinances, City of Quitman, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(b)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language shall be used: "That the Code of Ordinances, City of Quitman, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section to be numbered ____________, which section reads as follows:…." The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1962, § 1-6; Code 1986, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-10. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by municipal personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the board of commissioners. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed or replaced shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier, meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement, may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections ____________ to ____________," inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code;
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted in the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 1962, § 1-6; Code 1986, § 1-10)
Sec. 1-11. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
(Code 1962, § 1-7; Code 1986, § 1-11)
Sec. 1-12. - General penalty; collection of fines; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section, "violation of this Code" means any of the following:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of an act is required or the failure to do an act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, imprisonment in the city or county jail, not to exceed six months, and to work upon the streets or other public places as the board of commissioners or chief of police may designate, not to exceed six months. Any one or more of these punishments may be inflicted by the court in its discretion and the fine imposed may be collected by execution.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance:
(1)
With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day that the violation continues is a separate offense.
(2)
With respect to other violations, each act constitutes a separate offense.
(d)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent suspension or revocation of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief.
(Code 1962, § 1-8; Code 1986, § 1-12)
State law reference— Maximum sentences and fines which may be imposed for violation of municipal ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).
