ARTICLE XIX. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 20-1901. - Zoning administration.
The provisions of this ordinance shall be administered and enforced by the zoning administrator of Darien, Georgia who shall be that person who has been appointed by the city council. His duties, among others, shall include receiving applications for demolition permits and issuing such permits; receiving applications for building permits and giving occupancy permits, and issuing building permits and giving occupancy permits for uses and structures which meet the requirements of this ordinance.
(Code 1998, § 20-1901)
Sec. 20-1902. - Demolition permit.
No principal building or structure shall be demolished before the issuance of a demolition permit.
(Code 1998, § 20-1902)
Sec. 20-1903. - Building permits.
Except as hereinafter provided, a building permit issued by the building inspector is required in advance of the initiation of construction, erection, moving or alteration of any buildings or structure or for the development of land for a use which does not require a structure.
1.
Application for a building permit. except as hereinafter provided, any owner, authorized agent, or contractor who desires to construct, erect, move or alter any building or structure, or to develop land for a use not requiring a building or structure, shall first make application to the city administrator to obtain the required building permit therefor.
a.
Form. Each application for a building permit shall be filed with the zoning administrator on a form furnished by her and shall contain a general description of the proposed work and its location. The application shall be signed by the owner or his authorized agent.
b.
Information. Each application for a building permit shall indicate the proposed occupancy of all parts of the building, structure, or tract of land, and shall contain such information as may be required by the city administrator and building inspector.
c.
Plat or plan. All applications for a building permit shall be accompanied by a plat or plan in duplicate, drawn to scale, which shows the actual dimensions of the lot to be developed; the size and location of buildings and structures to be erected; the setback of any building and structures from front, side, and rear property lines; the use of adjoining properties; the setback lines of buildings and structures, if any, on adjoining properties; and such other information as may be essential to determine whether or not the provisions of this ordinance are being observed. All plats or plans shall bear the signature of the owner or agent.
d.
Approval of county health department. When a proposed development is to be served by wells, or by septic tanks, or by a private water system and/or a private sewage disposal system, then the applicant for a permit for such development shall submit with his application for a permit a certificate from the county health department approving such water system, waste disposal system, septic tank, or well. If city water or sewer is available, it is required to be utilized instead of septic tanks or wells.
2.
Issuance of a building permit. If the building inspector is satisfied with [that] the work described in the application for the permit and by the drawing filed therewith conform to the requirements of this ordinance, and if proper certification has been obtained from the county building and health department approving the proposed development, then the zoning administrator shall issue a building permit for such development to the applicant, along with a signed copy of the plat or plan.
3.
Building permit denied. If the application for a permit and the plat or plan filed therewith, describes work which does not conform to the requirements of this ordinance, or the building codes, or if the health department recommends that a permit be denied for reasons of public health, then the building inspector shall not issue a permit. In such case, the building inspector shall return the plat or plan to the applicant showing his refusal to issue a permit. Such refusal shall state the reasons therefor, and shall cite the particular chapter and section of this ordinance with which the application does not comply.
4.
Conditions of the permit. A building permit which has been issued shall be construed to be authority to proceed with the work and shall not be construed as authority to violate, cancel, alter or set aside any provision of this ordinance, nor shall such issuance of a permit prevent the building inspector from thereafter requiring a correction of errors in plans or in construction or development which violates this ordinance. Any building permit issued shall become invalid unless the work authorized by it shall have commenced within six months of its issuance, or if the work or development authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of six months after the work or development is commenced; provided that extensions of time for periods not exceeding six months each may be allowed in writing by the building inspector.
5.
Building permit not required. A building permit shall not be required for the construction, erection, alteration, or moving of any structure established in connection with agricultural, forestry, or fishery activities, or in connection with the development of land for any such purposes in any district in which such activities are permitted and constitute the principal use, individually or collectively, of a tract or plot ground.
(Code 1998, § 20-1903)
Sec. 20-1904. - Occupancy permits.
Except as hereinafter provided, an occupancy permit issued by the building inspector is required in advance of the occupancy or use of.
1.
Any building or structure hereafter erected, altered, or moved.
2.
Land on which a new use is established after the adoption of this ordinance.
3.
A change in the use of a building or land to a use which requires a greater number of parking spaces or loading spaces than a use which previously occupied such building or land.
a.
Application for occupancy permit. Each application for an occupancy permit shall be filed with the building inspector on a form furnished by him. The application shall be signed by the owner or his authorized agent.
b.
Occupancy permit to be denied. An occupancy permit shall not be issued unless the development for which such permit is requested complies with all applicable provisions of this ordinance. A record of all such occupancy permits shall be filed in the office of the building inspector.
c.
Occupancy permit not required. An occupancy permit shall not be required for agricultural, forestry, or fishery activities, in any district where such activities are permitted and when such activities are permitted and when such activities, individually or collectively, constitute the principal use of the lot or tract of land on which they are being conducted.
(Code 1998, § 20-1904)
Sec. 20-1905. - Appeals.
Appeals from the decisions of the building inspector with regard to the interpretation, administration and enforcement of this zoning ordinance shall be made to the city council in accordance with the provisions of article XVII.
(Code 1998, § 20-1905)
