ARTICLE VII. - R-MH—ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE, MIXED HOUSING DISTRICT, MANUFACTURED HOUSING PERMITTED

Sec. 20-701. - Purpose and intent.
The purpose and intent of the R-MH Residential District is to provide a sound and healthy residential area sufficient to meet the unique needs of inhabitants living in a variety of housing types including manufactured homes, to protect manufactured housing parks from encroachment by incompatible uses, and to enhance property values in the community by providing distinctive areas for manufactured housing. The residential density of this zone is approximately five dwelling units per acre. It is the intent of the city to prohibit any new rezoning amendments to this district throughout the city.
(Code 1998, § 20-701)
Sec. 20-702. - Permitted uses.
modified
In an R-MH district the following uses are permitted.
(a)
One-family dwellings, including manufactured housing meeting requirements hereinafter set out:
1.
Modular homes must have a minimum of 1,100 square feet of heated floor space;
2.
Modular homes must be skirted, wheels and tongue removed.
(b)
Accessory buildings and structures.
(c)
Private greenhouses, fruit trees, nut trees, vines and other horticultural stock.
(d)
Agricultural crops excluding commercial grown crops.
(e)
The following signs:
1.
One unlighted sign not exceeding six square feet in area per face pertaining only to the sale, lease or hire of only the participant building, property or premises upon which displayed.
2.
Signs identifying persons engaged in construction on a site shall be permitted as long as construction is in progress.
(f)
Day nurseries where day care is provided for not more than six children and said nursery is duly licensed.
(g)
Manufactured Housing Parks as regulated in article XVIII.
(h)
Manufactured homes which are to be moved into the city or relocated within the city must comply with these provisions:
(1)
Except as provided for in subparagraphs (b), and (c) of section (2) below, no used or previously owned manufactured home being moved into the city or being relocated within the city shall be allowed to locate for permanent or temporary occupancy if said manufactured home is more than ten years old from the date of manufacture.
(2)
A manufactured home which is currently situated in city and is more than ten years old from the date of manufacture may be relocated within the city if all of the following conditions are present:
a.
The relocation site is a "mobile home park" or "subdivision" as approved by the city and as further defined in the applicable city ordinances, with no current citations or violations of either the manufactured home owner or the manufactured home park/subdivision owner including, but not limited to:
i.
No delinquent city taxes due;
ii.
No delinquent city water/sewer accounts due;
iii.
No citations within the past 12 months for nuisances against the owner of mobile home park;
iv.
No current citations by the city or state health department for septic system failures.
v.
The manufactured home does not violate any current zoning ordinances, city and state safety standards or current state and federal manufactured home building standards.
vi.
Manufactured homes relocated pursuant to the above conditions must pay an additional relocation fee to city in the amount of $200.00.
b.
The manufactured home is to be relocated as the result of an act of public dedication or condemnation for public purposes, including but not limited to, the taking of property through eminent domain for rights-of-way of local, state or federal road projects, and the manufactured home owner has sufficient property to relocate said manufactured home.
c.
The manufactured home is to be located on the same lot or parcel that it is currently located on, provided the move does not violate any current zoning ordinances, and the manufactured home meets county and state safety standards or current state and federal manufactured home building standards.
(3)
Manufactured homes that are not currently located in the city as of September 20, 2021, and are more than ten years old from the date of manufacture may not be moved into the city.
(Code 1998, § 20-702; Ord. No. 2021-006, § I(Exh. A), 9-21-2021)
Sec. 20-703. - Height.
In the R-MH District no building shall exceed a height of 35 feet, or exceed three stories.
(Code 1998, § 20-703)
Sec. 20-704. - Front yard.
Every lot in the R-MH district shall have a front yard which has a depth not less than 35 feet if located on a state highway, and 25 feet if located on a local street
(Code 1998, § 20-704)
Sec. 20-705. - Side yards.
In the R-MH district every lot shall have side yards as follows:
Lots shall have a side yard on each side of the main building of not less than ten feet.
Corner lots shall have the following side yards:
On the side lot line which adjoins another lot, the side yard shall be the same as that required on any lot.
On the side street the width of the required side yard shall be 15 feet.
(Code 1998, § 20-705)
Sec. 20-706. - Rear yards.
In the R-MH district every lot shall have a rear yard depth of at least 15 feet.
(Code 1998, § 20-706)
Sec. 20-707. - Placement of buildings.
Placement of buildings on any lot shall conform to the following:
LOTS.
(1)
No building for human habitation shall occupy any portion of a required yard.
(2)
A non-dwelling accessory building may build to a distance of not less than 2½ feet from the rear lot line and may build within 2½ feet of the side lot line.
(Code 1998, § 20-707)
Sec. 20-708. - Area.
The minimum required area of a lot in the R-MH District shall be not less than 6,000 square feet.
(Code 1998, § 20-708)
Sec. 20-709. - Lot area per dwelling.
The lot area per dwelling unit shall be not less than the minimum required lot area.
(Code 1998, § 20-709)
Sec. 20-710. - Lot width.
Every lot in the R-MH District created after the effective date of this ordinance shall maintain a width not less than 50 feet at the rear line of the required front yard. Leftover parcels may be added to the minimum lot area.
(Code 1998, § 20-710)
Sec. 20-711. - Permissible lot coverage.
All buildings, including accessory buildings and structures, shall not cover more than 40 percent of the area of the lot.
(Code 1998, § 20-711)
Sec. 20-712. - Limitations on permitted uses in R-MH districts.
No persons shall store on a permanent basis any commercial vehicle, as that phrase [is] defined in the vehicle code of the State of Georgia, which has a capacity greater than three quarters of a ton, in any R-MH District.
(Code 1998, § 20-712)
Sec. 20-713. - Off street parking requirements.
See Sec. 20-1509.
(Code 1998, § 20-713)
Sec. 20-714. - On street parking requirements.
Local streets may contain eight-foot by 22-foot parking spaces parallel to the travel lane for visitor or neighborhood amenity uses. All lots shall provide for off street parking.
(Code 1998, § 20-714)
Sec. 20-715. - Additional requirements applying to manufactured housing parks in R-MH district.
Every manufactured house situated in an R-MH district must comply with the following additional requirements:
(a)
A plan of operation for the park will be submitted to the zoning administrator. Said plan of operation shall include a plat of all proposed manufactured housing sites, including roads, service areas, recreation facilities, utility easements, covenants, and a copy of the rules intended be enforced by the operator upon the park residents.
(b)
Minimum area for a manufactured housing park is five acres.
(c)
All manufactured housing parks shall provide the following:
1.
Two paved parking spaces per lot with a surface driveway of not less than 20 feet in width, preferably composed of shells;
2.
All manufactured houses shall have all weather walkways of not less than three feet width from the driveway to the front door of the house;
3.
A laundromat, approved and maintained according to Macintosh County health department standards; and
4.
Active recreational areas comprising at least 20% of the total development to include amenities such as: swimming pools; basketball courts; tennis courts-playgrounds.
(d)
All streets within the park shall be constructed and maintained to city standards.
(e)
Each lot shall have clearly marked street addresses according to the current system of numbering homes in the city.
(f)
Each home shall be placed upon a concrete foundation pad sufficient in size to support the mobile home.
(g)
Within 30 days of the placement of a mobile home upon a site the following items shall be accomplished:
1.
The undercarriage shall be concealed from view utilizing nonflammable shrouding materials;
2.
Hitches shall be detached from the home and removed from premises or concealed under the home;
3.
Electricity and plumbing shall be hooked up to licensed contractor, and
4.
Any window air-conditioning units must be supported properly.
(h)
All manufactured housing parks shall install and maintain a 50-foot-wide vegetated buffer for the purposes of visual screening and noise abatement, between their property and all abutting properties; and
(i)
All manufactured housing parks road systems shall be inspected by the fire marshal to insure the adequacy of the system for emergency vehicle access.
(j)
All manufactured housing parks shall install and maintain screened areas for the purpose of service, refuse and/or storage. These areas shall be screened from public view from streets and/or adjoining properties.
(k)
Such manufactured house must have a minimum of 480 square feet of fully enclosed floor space.
(l)
Before occupancy, such manufactured house must be connected to [the] city water system and must be provided with and connected to septic tank and grease trap meeting the requirements of all city, county, and state health regulations.
(m)
No individual power plant for supplying electricity for household uses shall be operated on the lot.
(Code 1998, § 20-715)
