ARTICLE IV. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 20-401. - General provisions.
a.
No junkyard or place for the storage of discarded machinery, vehicles, or other scrap materials shall be maintained in any district.
b.
No owner or occupant of land in any district shall permit a fire or other ruins to be left, but shall remove the same within six months.
c.
Any persistent uses that may be obnoxious or injurious by reason of the production or emission of odor, dust, smoke, refuse matter, fumes, noise, vibration, or similar conditions, or that are dangerous to the comfort, peace, enjoyment, health or safety of the community are prohibited.
d.
Accessory buildings shall be allowed in all districts, provided they comply with all setback and height requirements.
e.
No structure shall exceed 35 feet in height, except church steeples, belfries, cupolas, bell towers, or flagpoles.
f.
No persons shall park or occupy any trailer on the premises of any occupied dwelling or on any lot which is not a part of the premises of any occupied dwelling except as follows:
(1)
The parking of one trailer in a private garage building or in a rear yard is permitted providing said trailer is not occupied and the trailer belongs to the owner or lessee of the land it occupies.
(2)
The temporary use of a trailer by a person engaged in adjoining construction work, or for whom a residence is being built, provided that such use is shown to be a temporary expedient, may be permitted by the city council. The city council shall grant such permission for a period not to exceed three months excepting that they may renew in their discretion such permission at the expiration of said three month period.
(3)
Any property owner or lessee may accommodate one trailer of a nonpaying guest in his yard for a period not exceeding 30 days in any one year.
g.
Within any residential district, no wall or fence shall exceed four feet in height within or along a boundary of a front yard. No wall or fence shall exceed six feet in height within or along a boundary of a rear yard. Any wall or fence within or along side yard boundaries must be set back at least eight feet from the front setback requirements and may not exceed four feet in height.
h.
All non-residential developments shall install and maintain a 20 foot wide vegetated buffer for the purposes of visual screening and noise abatement, between their property and any abutting residential properties.
i.
All non-residential developments shall install and maintain screened areas for the purposes of service, refuse and/or storage. These areas shall be screened from public view from streets and/or adjoining properties.
j.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. 12-2-8 [O.C.G.A. ยง 12-2-8], Chapter 3 91-3 -15.01 a 100 foot buffer and a 150-foot setback is required on all perennial streams in Darien.
k.
The minimum square footage for any home built with money from any of the following programs shall be no less than 850 square feet and shall be designated eligible as such by the city manager. In addition, the property utilized shall be located in an area designated by the city council as appropriate for low to moderate income housing.
(1)
Community Development Block Grant.
(2)
Neighborhood Stabilization Program.
(3)
Community Home Investment Program.
(Code 1998, ยง 20-401; Ord. of 7-27-2010)
Sec. 20-402. - Use regulations.
a.
A use is permitted as a matter of right in the district in which it is denoted, subject to all other applicable local, state and federal regulations.
b.
A use denoted by the letter "C" following a zoning designation is permitted by right only when in compliance with the conditions imposed as specified in the zoning permit, subject to all other applicable local, state, and federal regulations.
c.
In zoning districts where home occupations are allowed, all such uses must comply with the following provisions:
(1)
Not more than one home occupation shall be carried on in a dwelling unit;
(2)
No nonresidents shall be employed therein;
(3)
The use is carried on strictly by the owner of the principal building, who shall also reside in said building. Should the owner move his/her residence, the home occupation must be discontinued within three months;
(4)
No more than ten percent of the existing gross inhabitable floor area of the principal building is devoted to such use;
(5)
There shall be no display of goods or wares visible from the street;
(6)
The building or premises occupied shall not be rendered objectionable or detrimental to the residential character of the neighborhood because of exterior appearance, traffic, emission of odor, smoke, dust, noise, electrical disturbance, or in any other way;
(7)
Not more than one commercial vehicle in connection with such home occupation shall be stored on the premises;
(8)
The use must be incidental and subordinate to the residential use of the property;
(9)
A yearly certificate of occupancy shall be issued through the city clerk's office for the proposed used; and
(10)
The city building inspector/code enforcement officer shall verify that the home occupation conforms with the preceding standards.
(Code 1998, ยง 20-402)
