Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; authority of municipality to adopt ordinances, resolutions or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The provisions embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Darien, Georgia" and may be so cited. Such Code may also be referred to as the "Code of Darien."
(Code 1998, § 1-101)
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council:
(1)
General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
(2)
Gender; singular and plural. Every word in any Code provision or ordinance importing the masculine gender shall extend to and be applied to females as well as males; and every word importing the singular number only shall extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing; and every word importing the plural number only shall extend and be applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(3)
Tenses. The use of any verb in the present tense shall include the future as well as the past when applicable.
(4)
Joint authority. All words purporting to give a joint authority to three or more city officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it shall be expressly declared in the law giving the authority.
(5)
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or other officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provisions designate otherwise.
(6)
Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done as provided in any Code provision or ordinance or in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that if the last day be a Saturday, Sunday or a holiday then the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation. When any time is expressed in hours the whole of Sunday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
(7)
Overlapping provisions. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
(8)
Or, and. The word "or" may be read "and," and the word "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
(9)
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
(Code 1998, § 1-102)
Sec. 1-3. - Definitions.
modified
Words and phrases used in this Code shall have the following meanings, unless otherwise specified.
Advice and consent. Whenever the term "advice and consent" of the city council is used in this Code, it shall be construed to mean an affirmative vote of the majority of the entire city council.
City. The terms "the city" and "this city" mean the City of Darien, Georgia.
City council, council. The terms "city council" and "the council" mean the city council of Darien, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means the Code of the City of Darien, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Councilman or councilmember. The term "councilman" or "councilmember" means a member of the city council of Darien, Georgia.
County. The terms "the county" and "this county" mean the County of McIntosh, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" means the municipal court of the city.
Day. The term "day" means a calendar day of 24 hours.
Governing authority, governing body. The terms "governing authority" and "governing body" mean the mayor and city council of Darien, Georgia.
Judge orrecorder. The term "judge" or "recorder" means the judge of the municipal court of the city.
Mayor. The term "mayor" means the mayor of the City of Darien, Georgia.
Mayor and council. The term "mayor and council" means the mayor and city council of Darien, Georgia.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Municipality. The term "municipality" shall be construed as synonymous with the term "city," "town," or "municipal corporation."
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the terms "swear" or "sworn."
O.C.G.A. The term "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Ordinance. The term "ordinance" means a legislative act of the municipal governing body of a general and permanent nature.
Owner. The term "owner", when applied to a building or land, means and includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Penal ordinances. The rules of construction and definitions of words as contained in the penal code of the state, insofar as they can be made applicable, are hereby adopted as governing the penal ordinances of the city.
Person. The term "person" means and includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" means and includes every species of property except real property, as hereinafter defined.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. Whenever the term "premises" is used it means place or places.
Property. The term "property" includes real, personal, and mixed estates and interests.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
Reasonable time or notice. Reasonable time or notice shall be deemed to mean only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act required.
Residence. The term "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as his or her place of habitation, and to which, whenever he or she is absent, he or she has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his or her residence.
Resolution. The term "resolution" means a legislative act of the municipal governing body of a special or temporary character.
Seal. The term "seal" means the city seal.
Seniority. As it applies to the mayor and council, the term seniority shall mean the number of years of uninterrupted service on the city council. Any break in service shall revert years of service to zero.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curblines and improved walkways.
Signature, subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark intended as such when the person cannot write.
State. The terms "state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means and includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, viaduct or bridge, and the approaches thereto, within the city.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant", when applied to a building or to land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Titles of officers and departments. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of the City of Darien" were added thereto.
Town. See Municipality.
Week. The term "week" means a calendar week of seven days.
Writing or written. The term "writing" or "written" includes printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1998, § 1-103; Ord. No. 2022-003, § I (Exh. A), 2-15-2022)
Sec. 1-4. - Catchlines; history notes and references.
The headings and catchlines of the several sections and subsections of this Code are intended as mere captions to indicate the contents of the section or subsection and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section or subsection, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections or subsections, including the headings and catchlines, are amended or re-enacted. The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 1998, § 1-104)
State Law reference— Historical notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal or expiration of Code section.
(a)
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When any ordinance repealing a former Code section, ordinance, clause or provision, shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided.
(Code 1998, § 1-105)
Sec. 1-6. - Amending Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code shall be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In any case of repealed chapters, sections, and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as the Code and subsequent ordinances omitted are readopted as a new Code by the city council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "The Council of the City of Darien hereby ordains that section ___ of the Code of ordinances, City of Darien, Georgia, 2007 is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Council of the City of Darien hereby ordains that the Code of ordinances of the City of Darien, Georgia, 2007 is hereby amended by adding a section (or subsection or chapter) to be numbered ___ which section reads as follows:…." The new provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, chapters, or provisions sought to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, chapter, or provision number, as the case may be.
(Code 1998, § 1-106)
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the mayor and city council. Any person violating this section shall be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-8.
(Code 1998, § 1-107)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty where no penalty provided; continuing violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall subject the person committing the violation to a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 and costs or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 60 days, or to both such fine and imprisonment, any or all of such penalties to be imposed at the discretion of the judge of the municipal court. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
The infliction of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the city's charter or this Code.
(Code 1998, § 1-108)
State Law reference— Maximum sentences and fines which may be imposed for violation of municipal ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).
Sec. 1-9. - Severability.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code hereby adopted are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code hereby adopted shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this Code or of the Code hereby adopted, since the same would have been enacted by the council without the incorporation in the Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1998, § 1-109)
Sec. 1-10. - Provisions considered as continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to and existing at the time of the adoption of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not new enactments.
Sec. 1-11. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared at least on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city council during the period covered by the supplement, and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier, meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement, may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections ___ to ___," inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code.
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code, but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-12. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness;
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(4)
Any ordinance or resolution fixing the salary of any city officer or employee, unless superseded;
(5)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing employment and personnel policies and procedures;
(6)
Any right of franchise granted by the city to any person, firm, or corporation;
(7)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, closing, opening, widening, paving, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(8)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(9)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(10)
Any ordinance or resolution which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term;
(11)
Any ordinance or resolution providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefore;
(12)
Any zoning ordinance or amendments thereto, and any ordinance establishing a board of zoning appeals, board of architectural review, or planning commission, including joint commissions;
(13)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat or providing for subdivision regulations;
(14)
Any ordinance or resolution describing or altering the boundaries of the city or annexing property to the city;
(15)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
(16)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code;
(17)
Any ordinance or regulation prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations concerning through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic, through highways or streets, limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones, not in conflict or inconsistent with this Code;
(18)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing or amending the "Water Resources Protection Ordinance," "Subdivisions Regulations," "Development Standards," and/or the "Stormwater Local Design Manual";
(19)
Any ordinance or resolution of agreement with another political subdivision; and
(20)
Any other ordinance or resolution, or part thereof, which is not of a general and permanent nature; or which is referred to elsewhere in this Code as continuing in effect.
(b)
Nor shall the repeal of any such ordinance or resolution be construed to revive any ordinance, resolution or part thereof that has been repealed or superseded by a subsequent ordinance or resolution which is repealed or superseded by this chapter. All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
