Chapter 10 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal authority to exercise animal control, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3); dogs generally, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-1 et seq.; Georgia Animal Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Definitions.
Words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following meanings, unless otherwise specified:
Animal means any nonhuman living creature, domestic or wild.
At large means off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the owner, a member of his immediate family, or some other person, either by leash, cord, or other holding device.
Dangerous animal means any wild mammal, reptile, or fowl which is not naturally tame or gentle but is of a wild nature or disposition and which, because of its size, vicious nature, or other characteristics, would constitute a danger to human life or property if not kept or maintained in a safe manner or in secure quarters; and any domestic mammal, reptile, or fowl which, because of its size, vicious propensity, or other characteristic, would constitute a danger to human life or property if not kept or maintained in a safe manner or in secure quarters.
Livestock means cattle, sheep, swine, horses, goats, and other domestic animals ordinarily raised or used on a farm.
Poultry means domestic fowl, including but not limited to, chickens, turkeys, guinea fowl, geese, ducks, quail, and pigeons.
(Code 1998, § 15-101; Ord. No. 2020-02, § I(Exh. A), 10-20-2020)
Sec. 10-2. - Dangerous animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any dangerous or vicious animal of any kind to run at large within the city. Police officers shall be authorized to use such force as is necessary to prevent any such dangerous or vicious animal from causing harm to any person or property.
(Code 1998, § 15-102)
Sec. 10-3. - Health regulations incorporated.
All rules and regulations of the county board of health and the state department of human resources presently existing or as adopted in the future pertaining to rabies control and vaccination are incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth herein.
Sec. 10-4. - Maintaining poultry and livestock in the city limits.
It shall be unlawful for anyone to maintain poultry or livestock in the city limits except in accordance with the provisions of section 20-502(6) of the city Code which allows horses and bovines under specified conditions.
(Ord. No. 2020-02, § I(Exh. A), 10-20-2020)
Secs. 10-5—10-24. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DOGS

Sec. 10-25. - Dog control officer.
The code enforcement officer is hereby designated as the dog control officer.
Sec. 10-26. - Vaccination and dog tags required.
It shall be unlawful for anyone to keep or harbor any dog in the corporate limits of the city unless:
(1)
Such dog shall have been vaccinated against rabies in such manner and at such intervals as shall be necessary to prevent the incidence of such disease; and
(2)
Such dog wears a dog tag evidencing the rabies vaccination.
(Code 1998, § 15-201)
State Law reference— Governing authorities of municipality are authorized and required to require regulation or licensing of animals in the control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-3.
Sec. 10-27. - Running at large.
It shall be unlawful for anyone knowingly to permit any dog owned by him or under his control to run at large within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1998, § 15-202)
State Law reference— Unlawful to allow dangerous dog to roam outside of a proper enclosure without a muzzle and restraint by a leash held by a responsible person, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-2026.
Sec. 10-28. - City dog pound and confinement of certain dogs.
There may be a city dog pound erected and maintained as directed by the mayor and city council and operated by employees of the city for the purpose of impounding dogs found in the city in violation of this article. It shall be the duty of the chief of police and the policemen of the city and such other employees of the city as may be directed by the mayor and council to take up and impound any dog found running at large within the corporate limits of the city. Any dog so taken up shall be delivered to the city dog pound and kept there until claimed by the owner or other person in control or disposed of under the further provisions of this chapter. The owner or claimant shall pay the fees for impounding as hereinafter prescribed upon return of his dog.
(Code 1998, § 15-203)
Sec. 10-29. - Procedure from and after impoundment, disposition of dogs not redeemed.
(a)
Immediately upon the taking up and impounding of any dog, it shall be the duty of the chief of police or his designated agent to notify the owner or person in charge of the dog. If the dog's owner is not known, a notice will be put on the bulletin board at the door of the county courthouse and the door of the city hall stating the date and fact of impoundment, and in any event the notice given or posted shall state that if the dog is not claimed and the fees and expenses of impounding paid within 20 days, the dog will be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of.
(b)
In the event any dog thus impounded is not redeemed by the owner or person in control within the time prescribed above, such dog shall be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of as directed by the mayor and council.
(Code 1998, § 15-204)
Sec. 10-30. - Other regulations regarding vaccinations.
If at any time the mayor and council shall decide that the provisions of this chapter requiring annual vaccination of dogs against rabies are insufficient for the protection of the citizens against the incidence of this disease or other disease, the mayor and council may by simple resolution prescribe other more frequent intervals for vaccinations or other inoculations. Notice of such additional requirements shall be given by notice published in the official newspaper of McIntosh County for two weeks and by written notice to owners or persons in control of each dog. Thereafter, such new requirements shall be in effect and have the same force as if originally set out herein.
(Code 1998, § 15-205)
Sec. 10-31. - Interference with police officers and city employees.
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, obstruct or impede any police officer or other employee of the city designated by the mayor and council or the chief of police in carrying out and enforcing the provisions of this chapter or to release any dog which has been taken up or impounded under the provisions of this chapter without making claim for said dog and paying the fees and expenses of impounding and keeping the dog as provided in this chapter.
(Code 1998, § 15-207)
State Law reference— Unlawful to interfere with or hinder dog control officer in the lawful discharge of his official duties, O.C.G.A. § 4-1-6.
Sec. 10-32. - Penalties.
The provisions of this chapter making it unlawful to keep or harbor any dog in the city without complying with the provisions of this chapter; making it unlawful to knowingly permit any dog to run at large in the city; making it unlawful to interfere with any officer or employee of the city in carrying out the provisions of this chapter; and any other act or failure to act declared herein to be unlawful are hereby declared to be penal in nature; and any person found to be in violation of any of such provisions may upon conviction in the municipal court of the city be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-8.
(Code 1998, § 15-208)
