ARTICLE VIII. - MAIN STREET COMMISSION

Sec. 2-201. - Purpose.
As a result of the designation of Stone Mountain, Georgia as a Georgia Main Street City by the Georgia Department of Industry, Trade and Tourism, this article is created by the city council of Stone Mountain (hereinafter referred to as "council") to provide an organizational structure for the joint participation of private and public interests in the economic development of the business district of the city.
(Ord. No. 98-10, 9-1-98)
Sec. 2-202. - Definitions (Reserved).
Sec. 2-203. - Creation, appointment and compensation.
A commission is hereby created whose title shall be "City of Stone Mountain Main Street Commission" (hereinafter referred to as the "Main Street commission").
(1)
Membership, qualifications and terms of office.
a.
The Main Street commission shall consist of five (5) members, each of whom shall serve a maximum of three (3) consecutive two-year terms, except as provided in subsection b hereinbelow. A period of two (2) years shall elapse before any member serving the maximum three (3) consecutive terms shall be eligible to serve again on the commission. At least three (3) members shall be residents of the city for at least one (1) year prior to taking office or owners of a business operating under a valid occupation license issued by the city and in force for one (1) year.
b.
In order to achieve staggered terms, initial appointments shall be determined by lottery as follows: Two (2) members shall serve an initial term ending January 31, 2000, and three (3) members shall serve initial terms ending January 31, 2001. Initial appointees serving until January 31, 2000, may serve an additional three (3) consecutive two-year terms.
(2)
Appointment and vacancies.
a.
When appointing Main Street commission members, the city clerk shall take action as may reasonably be required to inform city residents and business owners that an opening exists on the Main Street commission, including the publication of a notice in the principal newspaper of general circulation in Stone Mountain for a period no less than three (3) days or more than ten (10) days. The city clerk shall accept applications from interested individuals. Acting as a committee of the whole, the council, chaired by the mayor, shall review the applications, interview applicants, and recommend a short list of potential candidates to the mayor. The mayor shall nominate individuals for confirmation within thirty (30) days of receipt of recommendations from the council. Confirmation shall be by a majority vote of the council. In the event of a tie vote, the mayor shall cast the deciding vote.
b.
If a member is unable to complete a term of office, then an appointment to fill the unexpired term shall be made in the same manner as making an initial appointment. A member appointed to serve the remainder of an unexpired term shall be eligible to be reappointed for a maximum of two (2) consecutive two-year terms.
(3)
Members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for reasonable expenses as approved by the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 98-10, 9-1-98)
Sec. 2-204. - Powers and duties.
The Main Street commission shall:
(1)
Make an annual report to the mayor and council on the economic condition of the city's business district;
(2)
Make recommendations to the mayor and council on economic and development issues concerning the city's business district;
(3)
Coordinate efforts of the Main Street commission with the city historic preservation commission in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 5, Article II of the Code of Ordinances of the city.
(4)
Search for local, state, federal, and private funds for the economic development of the city's business district;
(5)
Create and maintain a plan for the city's business district incorporating the Georgia Main Street Association's four-point approach of organization, promotion, economic restructuring, and design;
(6)
Review and make recommendations to the mayor on all applicants for the position of Main Street program manager.
(Ord. No. 98-10, 9-1-98)
Sec. 2-205. - Assistance by the city.
The governing authority shall provide technical and clerical assistance as the Main Street commission may require and shall maintain permanent and complete records of the activities of the Main Street commission.
(Ord. No. 98-10, 9-1-98)
Sec. 2-206. - Bylaws, officers and quorum.
(a)
The Main Street commission shall adopt rules and procedures, such as bylaws for the transaction of its business. The Main Street commission shall have the prerogative to adopt reasonable rules and bylaws without amendment to this article or the vote of the mayor and city council. The Main Street commission shall provide for the time and place of regular meetings and a method for the calling of special meetings. The Main Street commission shall meet at least monthly. Meeting notices shall be conducted in accordance with the Georgia Open Records Act, Title 50-18-70.
(b)
A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members.
(c)
The Main Street commission shall elect a chair and such other officers as it deems appropriate from among its members. Officers shall serve one-year terms and shall be eligible for reelection. The Main Street commission shall elect its initial officers at the first meeting following their appointment and thereafter in February of each year.
(Ord. No. 98-10, 9-1-98)
Secs. 2-207—2-300. - Reserved.
