ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 66-1. - Self-inspection of water and sewer lines.
Pursuant to authority contained in 1996 Ga. Laws, page 1632, section 3, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26(d), relating to self-inspection of water and sewer projects by master plumbers or utility contractors, shall not be applicable within the city.
(Ord. No. 96-33, art. I, 7-16-1996)
Sec. 66-2. - Damaging or tampering with facilities or services; unlawful diversion of services.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally and without authority to injure or destroy any meter, pipe, conduit, wire, line, post, lamp or other apparatus belonging to a company or to the city or other political subdivision engaged in the manufacture or sale of electricity, gas, water, telephone or other public services, or intentionally and without authority to prevent a meter from properly registering the quantity of such service supplied, or in any way to interfere with the proper action of the city or such company or political subdivision, or intentionally to divert any services of the city, or such company or political subdivision, or otherwise intentionally and without authority to use or cause to be used, without the consent of the city, or such company or such political subdivision, any service, manufactured, sold or distributed by the city or such company or political subdivision.
(b)
The person performing any of the illegal acts described in this section shall be responsible for such acts of tampering or diversion. Also, any person who receives the benefit of such service without proper charge under circumstances where he knew, or by the exercise of due diligence should have known, that same was the result of improper sanction by some other party, shall be presumed responsible for such acts of tampering or diversion.
(c)
Any responsible party may be cited for appearance before the municipal court and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in section 1-11. In addition to fines, forfeiture and imprisonment, any person convicted for violation of this section shall pay retribution to the city for any damage to its equipment or current cost for labor and materials necessary to reestablish service and the reasonable value of those services provided by the city or received by the violator as a result of such unlawful actions.
(Ord. No. 96-12, art. I, 5-7-1996)
Sec. 66-3. - Utility bills; penalty for unpaid utility bills; disconnection.
Bills to customers for utility services shall be mailed out to the utility customer prior to the last day of each month. The amount due shall be payable by the tenth of the following month. If the amount of the bill is not paid by the tenth, a penalty of ten percent of the amount of the bill shall be added thereto and collected. If the amount of the bill is not paid by the 20th of each month, all utility services may be disconnected unless a prior agreement has been reached between the city and the utility customer. If the charges were incurred by the record owner, a tenant of the record owner, or person authorized by the record owner to reside on the record owner's property, the city clerk, assistant city clerk, city utility manager and/or city attorney may record a lien for the unpaid utility services on the general execution docket at the office of the Butts County Superior Court Clerk. Such execution shall be a lien on the property where the bill was incurred until such bill is paid and shall be enforced as a lien against the property.
(Ord. No. 01-02-2008, § 1, 2-5-2008)
Sec. 66-4. - Security lights.
Any Jackson Electric customer requesting the installation of a security light is subject to the fees and regulations set forth in this section.
The monthly charge for the energy is $12.00 per month or $20.00 per month depending on the size of the light.
In order to recoup a portion of the city's expense, a new pole and light installation fee is established in the amount of $350.00. The pole and light shall only be installed at the request of the property owner. This fee is due prior to the installation of the pole and the security light.
A one-year service agreement for energy must be signed before the pole and light are installed. The agreement shall be signed by the account holder for the utility bill. At the end of the first 12 months, the service can continue upon renewal of another one-year term, and the renewal process can continue as such until the account holder chooses to disconnect service, which can be done at the end of a one-year term. Lights will not be cut on and off within the year.
If a customer requests a light to be disconnected at the end of a one-year term, there is no charge to disconnect the light. If a customer requests to reconnect a security light on an existing pole, the reconnection fee is established in the amount of $30.00 and the payment must be made prior to the reconnection.
( Ord. No. 2022-008 , 9-20-2022)
Secs. 66-5—66-30. - Reserved.
