Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-70-1 et seq., the city implemented its comprehensive plan on December 1, 1994. An official copy of the comprehensive plan is on file in the office of the city clerk where it is available for reference and review during normal business hours.
State Law reference— Municipal corporations generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-1 et seq.; incorporation of municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-31-1 et seq.; powers of municipal corporations generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-1 et seq.; powers relating to administration of municipal government generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2; The Municipal Home Rule Act of 1965, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; home rule for municipalities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ II et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Adoption of ordinances.
An ordinance may be introduced by the mayor or any councilmember and be read at a regular or special called meeting of the city council. The city clerk shall distribute a copy of the ordinance to the mayor and each councilmember and shall have a copy on file in the city clerk's office for public review. The second reading and adoption of the ordinance can take place during a regular or special called meeting. The second reading and adoption must be at least five days following the first reading. This procedure does not apply to emergency ordinances as provided in section 2.24 of the city Charter.
(Ord. No. 96-2, 1-2-1996; Ord. No. 001 , 5-17-2022)
Charter reference— Ordinance form; procedures, § 2.22.
State Law reference— Authority to adopt municipal ordinances, resolutions or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.
Sec. 2-2. - Credit card payments.
(a)
All sums due the city including, but not limited to, ad valorem taxes, occupation taxes, fines, forfeitures, penalties, license fees, permit fees and registration fees may be paid by the use of credit cards. The city council will establish the procedures for acceptance of credit card payments for amounts due the city. The mayor is authorized to enter into agreements with credit card issuers to facilitate the acceptance of credit card payments by the city.
(b)
A credit card agreement may provide for the acceptance of the credit card payments from the credit card company at a discount from the face amount of the payment or for the withholding of administrative fees from the face amount of the payment. Such discounted fee is granted in exchange for the improved governmental cash flow, reduction of administrative expenses and increased public convenience as a result of credit card payments.
(c)
A surcharge equal to the administrative fees charged by the credit card issuer to the city shall be imposed upon any person making a payment by credit card, when such surcharges are permitted by the operating rules and regulations of the credit card issuer.
(d)
Any agreement with a credit card issuer for the acceptance of payments via credit shall contain a provision that the agreement may be canceled at any time by the city.
(e)
No person making payment by credit card to the city is relieved from liability for the underlying obligation except to the extent that the city actually receives final payment of the obligation in cash or its equivalent. If final payment is not made by the credit card issuer or other guarantor of payment in the credit card transaction, the underlying obligation for the money due is not extinguished. All applicable penalties, interest and collection fees on the unpaid amount shall be due from the person making the payment by credit card. Such penalties, interest and fees on an unpaid amount shall accrue from the date the unpaid obligation was first due under the applicable statute or ordinance. The city shall follow the collection procedures for the unpaid amount that would have otherwise been applicable had the credit card payment not been attempted.
(Ord. No. 96-30, art. I, 6-4-1996)
Cross reference— Taxation, ch. 58.
Secs. 2-3—2-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Pursuant to an ordinance adopted June 5, 1972, the city established a retirement plan for city employees. The subject ordinance set forth the joint trust agreement and the contract for the administration of such plan by the city and the Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System as provided by O.C.G.A. § 47-5-1 et seq. An official copy of the retirement plan and amendments is on file in the office of the city clerk.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-31. - Personnel system established.
The city hereby creates a personnel system establishing rules and procedures which shall serve as a guide to administrative action concerning various personnel activities and operations. These rules and regulations shall cover all employees except the city manager, the assistant city manager and the city clerk. These rules and regulations shall be administered by the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 96-1, 12-19-1995)
Editor's note— The city's handbook of personnel policies is compiled and published separately by the city. An official copy of the handbook is on file in the office of the city clerk.
State Law reference— Fair Employment Practices Act of 1978, O.C.G.A. § 45-19-20 et seq.; random drug testing of state employees in high-risk jobs, O.C.G.A. § 45-20-90 et seq.; municipal or county governments not to require residence as condition of employment, O.C.G.A. § 45-2-5; Public Employee Hazardous Chemical Protection and Right to Know Act of 1988, O.C.G.A. § 45-22-1 et seq.; Drug-Free Public Work Force Act of 1990, O.C.G.A. § 45-23-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-32. - Reimbursement of expenses.
The mayor and each councilmember shall be entitled to reimbursement for actual expenses incurred while representing the city. The amount of reimbursement and the procedure for reimbursement shall be the same as that shown for employees in the city handbook.
(Ord. No. 96-4, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-33. - Political activities of employees.
(a)
Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish rules and procedures for deciding whether a city employee may continue in such employment upon qualifying as a candidate for nomination or election to any public office.
(b)
Generally. This section shall establish the procedure and rules by which the city council shall decide whether a city employee shall continue in such employment upon qualifying as a candidate for nomination or election to any public office. The city council hereby finds and declares that the city Charter, article II, section 2.14(f), is overbroad in its absolute prohibition against any city employee continuing such employment upon qualifying as a candidate for nomination or election to any public office. The purpose of such subparagraph was to prevent conflicts of interest detrimental to the citizens of the city. The following rules shall apply in all cases where an employee of the city wishes to qualify as a candidate for nomination or election to any public office:
(1)
Generally, no appointed officer of the city shall be allowed to continue in such employment upon qualifying as a candidate for nomination or election to any public office. However, an appointed officer may seek a decision from the city council that an exception should be made in his case, because the public office is not inconsistent, incompatible or in conflict with the duties of the appointed office. Those appointed officers serving at the pleasure of the mayor are not entitled to any type of hearing before the city council. Those appointed officers serving at the pleasure of the city council may make application for a hearing, but nothing contained in this section changes the fact that the employment of an appointed officer may be terminated at any time for any reason or no reason, unless such a person has a specific contract of employment for a stated period of time.
(2)
No employee of the city shall continue in such employment upon election to any public office in the city or any other public office which is inconsistent, incompatible or in conflict with the duties of the city employee. Such determination shall be made by the city council, following a hearing.
(3)
A city employee wishing to seek public office will be required to notify the city council of his intentions. The city council shall carefully consider whether campaigning for and/or serving in the particular public office will be inconsistent, incompatible or in conflict with the duties of the particular city employee. After considering all of the facts and circumstances relevant upon the issue, the city council may take the following action:
a.
If the city council believes that the campaign activities required to obtain the public office are inconsistent, incompatible or in conflict with the duties of the city employee, it may require in its discretion that the city employee take leave without pay for the period of time that is in its opinion necessary. Nothing in this section prevents a city employee otherwise entitled to vacation, annual leave or other types of leave to take same in lieu of leave without pay, to the extent available to the employee.
b.
If the city council is of the opinion that campaigning for the public office can be accomplished in a way not inconsistent, incompatible or in conflict with the duties of the city employee, it may allow the employee to remain an active employee of the city during the time between qualification and election, or it may allow the employee to modify his work schedule or duties so as to avoid any such problem.
c.
If the city council believes that the public office sought is inconsistent, incompatible or in conflict with the duties of the city employee, it may decide that the employee must either take leave without pay or forfeit his employment with the city. The commencement of such leave or forfeiture may either be the day of election to the office or the day of taking office, depending on the city council's opinion as to when the inconsistency, incompatibility or conflict will arise.
d.
If the city council is of the opinion that the public office sought will not create an unacceptable inconsistency, incompatibility or conflict with the duties of the city employee, it may allow the city employee to continue his employment without change or it may modify the schedule or duties of the city employee so as to avoid any such problem.
e.
Because employment with the city and holding public office are ongoing and sometimes changing responsibilities, the city council may reconsider its decision at a later time, but only after notice to the employee and a full hearing before the city council. Reconsideration could only be had when there is a substantial change of circumstances materially affecting the employee's job performance as a city employee. Such change of circumstances could be a change in the duties and responsibilities of the public office from those in effect at the time of the previous hearing or a change in the duties and responsibilities of the employee in his job with the city since the time of the previous hearing. Under no circumstances will a city employee's employment with the city be affected in any way by his decisions while serving in public office. Under no circumstances would the city council attempt to influence an employee's performance as a public official by use of any power contained in this section. After such a reconsideration hearing, the city council would have the full range of options that it had at the first hearing, but it could never impose any condition retroactively.
(c)
Notice and hearing.
(1)
Notice required. Any person actively employed by the city, either on a full-time or part-time basis, must notify the city council in writing within five business days of qualifying as a candidate for nomination or election to any public office. Notification shall be considered received by the city when delivered to the city clerk. Any employee desiring to have the city council make a decision in advance of his qualification as a candidate may obtain such a decision by notifying the city council of his proposed qualification at least five days prior to a regular meeting of the city council scheduled before the deadline for qualification as a candidate.
(2)
Content of notice. The city employee shall provide written notice containing the following:
a.
Full name and social security number of the employee;
b.
Job title with the city;
c.
Official title and jurisdiction of the public office to be sought; and
d.
A written statement from the employee as to how he plans to fully perform his duties for the city while seeking and serving in such public office.
(3)
Hearing and decision.
a.
Upon receiving notice as described in this subsection, the city clerk shall place the issue upon the next regularly scheduled meeting of the city council, where the issue will be decided under the same rules of procedure as in personnel matters.
b.
The employee wishing to seek public office shall have the right to attend the hearing and address the councilmembers, and the council shall be entitled to address questions concerning relevant issues to the employee.
c.
The council may consider any matter that it considers relevant including, but not limited to, the following:
1.
The complete personnel file of the employee or appointed officer.
2.
Any official statement of the qualifications, powers, duties and geographical jurisdiction of the public office to be sought.
3.
The testimony or written statements of supervisory personnel and the department superintendent of the employee seeking public office.
(4)
Reconsideration. At any time after a hearing and decision under this section, the city council may decide that a reconsideration is in order because of substantial changes in circumstances materially affecting the employee's job performance. Such a hearing can only be conducted based upon facts and circumstances which arose after the first hearing or which were not reasonably available to the city council at the first hearing. In order to conduct such a hearing, the city council must first serve upon the employee a notice stating specifically how the public office held by the employee or the city job of the employee, or both, have changed in duties, responsibilities, jurisdiction or otherwise and how such changes substantially affect the employee's job performance so as to make the public office inconsistent, incompatible or in conflict with the duties of the employee. Such notice would inform the employee of the time and date of the hearing, which would be no sooner than five days following the service of notice. The hearing would be conducted in the same manner as the first hearing, with the limitations upon issues raised stated herein and in subsection (b)(3)e of this section.
(Ord. No. 96-28, arts. I, II, 5-21-1996)
Charter reference— Political activities of certain officers and employees, § 2.14(f).
Secs. 2-34—2-40. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING FOR COMMERCIAL VEHICLE OPERATORS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Random drug testing of state employees in high-risk jobs, O.C.G.A. § 45-20-90 et seq.; Drug-Free Public Work Force Act of 1990, O.C.G.A. § 45-23-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-41. - Scope of article.
This division applies to all full-time or part-time employees of the city who operate commercial motor vehicles and who are required to have commercial driver's licenses.
(Ord. No. 96-8, § I(A), 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-42. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Safety-sensitive function means the following: waiting to be dispatched; inspecting equipment or inspecting, servicing, or conditioning any commercial motor vehicle at any time; driving a commercial motor vehicle; being in or upon a commercial motor vehicle unless resting in a sleeper berth; supervising, or assisting in the loading or unloading of a vehicle, attending a vehicle being loaded or unloaded, remaining in readiness to operate the vehicle, or giving or receiving receipts for shipments loaded or unloaded; performing driver requirements pertaining to accidents; and repairing, obtaining assistance, or remaining in attendance upon a disabled vehicle.
(Ord. No. 96-8, § I(C), 1-2-1996)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 2-43. - Penalty for violation of division.
In addition to any discipline or discharge by the city, drivers with commercial driver's licenses who violate federal regulations regarding drug and alcohol testing could be liable for penalties ranging from $500.00 to $2,500.00 and/or criminal penalties with a maximum fine of $5,000.00 or imprisonment for up to 90 days, or both.
(Ord. No. 96-8, § XII, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-44. - Applicant consent to testing required; certificate of receipt.
All driver applicants must give their consent to drug and alcohol testing as described in this division and sign the following certificate of receipt:
Certificate of Receipt
By my signature below, I certify that I have received and reviewed a complete copy of the attached materials explaining the requirements of the city's drug and alcohol testing policies and procedures. I understand that my failure to abide by the city's drug and alcohol testing policy is grounds for termination of employment.
By my signature below, I consent to the drug and alcohol testing set forth in this policy, and I consent to the release of the results of this testing to the city by the testing laboratory.
EXPAND
_____
Driver Signature _____
Date
  Sec. 2-45. - Prohibitions of alcohol and drug use.
(a)
Alcohol use. Drivers are prohibited from reporting for duty or remaining on duty requiring the performance of safety-sensitive functions while having an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater. Drivers with an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater will be immediately removed from safety-sensitive functions. A driver whose test results indicate an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater, but less than 0.04, will not be allowed to perform safety-sensitive functions until the start of the driver's next regularly scheduled duty period, but not less than 24 hours following the alcohol test. Drivers are prohibited from possessing or using alcohol while on duty. Drivers are prohibited from performing safety-sensitive functions within four hours after using alcohol. Following an accident, drivers are prohibited from using alcohol for eight hours or until undergoing a post-accident test. Misuse of alcohol is grounds for discharge from the city.
(b)
Drug use. Drivers are prohibited from reporting for duty or remaining on duty requiring the performance of safety-sensitive functions when the driver uses drugs, unless the use is due to a physician's instruction that has advised the driver that the substance does not adversely affect the driver's ability to safely operate a motor vehicle. The driver must inform the employer of any such therapeutic drug use. If tested positive for drugs, drivers are prohibited from reporting for duty, remaining on duty, or performing a safety function. A positive test for use of controlled substances is grounds for discharge from the city.
(c)
Refusal of test. Refusal to submit to a drug or alcohol test has the same consequences as a positive test result. If a driver fails to provide an adequate testing sample without a valid medical explanation or engages in conduct that obstructs the testing process, that driver will be deemed to have refused to submit to testing.
(Ord. No. 96-8, § II, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-46. - Types of testing.
(a)
Preemployment testing. A driver applicant whom the city intends to hire or use shall be tested for the use of drugs, but not alcohol, as a condition of qualification for employment. A drug test is also required whenever a current employee moves into a safety-sensitive position. No driver shall perform any safety-sensitive functions until a preemployment test has indicated a verified negative result.
(b)
Post-accident testing. As soon as possible after a reportable accident, every driver who was performing safety-sensitive functions with respect to the vehicle, if the accident involved the loss of human life, or who receives a citation for a moving traffic violation arising from the accident shall be tested for alcohol and drug use. If an alcohol test is not performed within two hours of the accident, the city will prepare and maintain on file a record stating why the test was not promptly administered. If an alcohol test has not been conducted within eight hours of the accident, no test will be conducted, and the city will maintain the same record. If a drug test has not been administered within 32 hours of the accident, no test will be administered, and the city will maintain on file a statement of the reasons the test was not promptly administered. If a driver subject to post-accident testing does not remain readily available for such testing, he will be deemed to have refused to submit to testing. However, a driver is allowed to get necessary emergency medical attention for injured people, or, if necessary, to leave the scene of an accident for the period necessary to obtain assistance in responding to the accident, or to obtain necessary emergency medical care. The driver is responsible for ensuring that he complies with this section of the city's drug and alcohol testing program.
(c)
Random testing. All drivers are subject to unannounced drug and alcohol testing. A random selection process will be used to select drivers to be tested. Each driver will have an equal chance of being tested each time selections are made. At least 50 percent of all drivers subject to testing will be tested each year for drug use. At least 25 percent of all drivers subject to testing will be tested each year for alcohol use. The dates of testing will be spread reasonably throughout the calendar year. Drivers will be tested for alcohol use while performing safety-sensitive functions, just before performing safety-sensitive functions, or just after performing such functions.
(d)
Reasonable suspicion testing. A driver shall submit to testing whenever the city has reasonable suspicion to believe that the driver is using a prohibited drug or is using alcohol in a prohibited manner. A decision to test will be made based on specific, contemporaneous, articulable observations concerning the appearance, behavior, speech or body odors of the driver. The observations may include indications of the chronic and withdrawal effects of controlled substances. The term "reasonable suspicion" means that the city believes that the appearance, behavior, speech or body odors of the driver are indicative of the use of drugs or alcohol. A reasonable suspicion of drug or alcohol use will be made by a supervisor or, when possible, two supervisors. A reasonable suspicion of alcohol misuse can only be made during, or just before or after, that period of the workday when the driver is engaged in the performance of a safety-sensitive function. After observation of suspect conduct, the driver should be transported immediately to a testing site. Once behavioral, speech, and performance indicators show a driver is under the influence of or impaired by alcohol, the driver must not report for, or remain on duty requiring the performance of safety-sensitive functions. A driver will only be permitted to resume performance after an alcohol test shows the driver's alcohol concentration at less than 0.02 or 24 hours have elapsed following the determination of reasonable suspicion. If an alcohol test is not administered within two hours following the supervisor's observation, a statement of the reasons for the delay must be prepared and maintained on file. If an alcohol test is not administered within eight hours, the driver will not be tested, and a statement of the reasons for failure to administer the test will be prepared and maintained on file. Within 24 hours of the observations being made or before the results of the drug test are released, whichever is earlier, documentation of the suspicion must be prepared and signed by the supervisor or company official who made the observations.
(e)
Return-to-duty testing. Any driver who has engaged in prohibited drug or alcohol use must undergo a drug or alcohol test before returning to duty requiring the performance of safety-sensitive functions. A drug test must indicate a verified negative result for drug use. An alcohol test must indicate an alcohol concentration of less than 0.02.
(f)
Follow-up testing. A driver who returns to duty after a positive test is subject to follow-up testing. If a substance abuse professional determines that a driver needs help in resolving drug or alcohol abuse problems, follow-up drug and alcohol testing will be administered as directed by that substance abuse professional. At least six tests are required in the first 12 months following the driver's return to duty. Follow-up testing will not exceed 60 months from the date of the driver's return to duty. After the first six tests, a driver may be released from the requirement of follow-up testing if the substance abuse professional determines that such testing is no longer necessary.
(Ord. No. 96-8, § III, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-47. - Drug testing procedures.
Drug testing procedure will be in accordance with the federal DOT's drug testing procedures at 49 CFR 40. Drug testing will be performed using urine samples. The driver will be tested for marijuana, cocaine, opiates, amphetamines and phencyclidine (PCP). Upon notification that a drug test is required, a driver must report immediately to a drug collection site. Unreasonable delay in reporting to a site after notification will be deemed a refusal to submit to testing.
(Ord. No. 96-8, § IV, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-48. - Alcohol testing procedures.
Alcohol testing procedures will be in accordance with the federal DOT's alcohol testing procedures at 49 CFR 40. The test will be performed using breath or saliva samples. Upon notification that an alcohol test is required, a driver must report immediately for alcohol testing and provide a breath or saliva specimen. If a driver fails to report to a testing facility in a reasonable time, that driver will be deemed to have refused to submit to alcohol testing. If the result of the initial test is an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater, a confirmation test will be performed. For the purposes of this policy, alcohol means the intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl alcohol, or other low molecular weight alcohols including methyl and isopropyl alcohol in any beverage, mixture, or preparation, including any medication.
(Ord. No. 96-8, § V, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-49. - Supervisory training.
The city has established an education and training component for supervisory personnel who are authorized to determine whether reasonable suspicion exists to require a driver to undergo reasonable suspicion testing under this policy. Every such supervisor shall receive at least two hours of training on the specific indicators of probable drug or alcohol abuse. One hour will cover alcohol misuse and one hour will relate to drug use. The training shall cover the physical, behavioral, speech, and performance indicators of probable alcohol misuse and use of controlled substances.
(Ord. No. 96-8, § VI, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-50. - Recordkeeping.
The city shall ensure that the following records are kept for a period of at least five years: all records of positive drug test results and alcohol test results indicating an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater, documentation of refusal to take tests, calibration documentation, driver evaluation and referrals, and a copy of all annual calendar year summaries of the results of the city's drug and alcohol testing programs. Records related to the alcohol and drug collection process and training will be kept for a period of at least two years. Records relating to negative and canceled drug test results and alcohol test results with a concentration of less than 0.02 will be kept for at least one year.
(Ord. No. 96-8, § VII, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-51. - Notification of test results.
The city shall notify a driver of the results of any drug or alcohol test if the results were positive. The driver will also be advised what drug was discovered. In addition, the city shall notify a driver applicant of the results of a preemployment drug test, provided that the driver applicant requests such results within 60 days of being notified of the disposition of the employment application.
(Ord. No. 96-8, § VIII, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-52. - Access to facilities and records.
The city will not release driver information that is contained in drug or alcohol program records except as required by law or expressly authorized by the driver. A driver is entitled, upon written request, to obtain copies of any records pertaining to the driver's use of drugs or alcohol, including any test records. In addition, federal, state and local officials will have access to all records and facilities used in complying with drug and alcohol program laws. The city will release a driver's record to a subsequent employer, or other person identified by a driver, upon receipt of a written request from the driver. The subsequent employer or other individual may only disclose the information as expressly authorized by the driver. The city may also provide information to a driver or decision maker when a grievance or other proceeding has been initiated by or on behalf of the driver which arises from the results of a drug or alcohol test given by the city or from the city's determination that the driver engaged in prohibited conduct. Such proceedings may pertain, for example, to workers' compensation, unemployment compensation, or other claims or benefits sought by the driver.
(Ord. No. 96-8, § IX, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-53. - Release of test information by previous employers.
Within 14 days of the first time a driver performs a safety-sensitive function for the city, the city is required by law to obtain information from a driver's previous employer on the driver's positive drug test results, alcohol test results of 0.04 or greater and refusals to be tested for drugs or alcohol within the preceding two years. This information must be obtained with the consent of the driver. Other information relating to a driver's drug and alcohol use may be obtained, pursuant to the driver's consent, by the city. Any such request must be accompanied by the driver's written authorization for release of the information. Refusal to consent to release of this information by the driver has the same consequences as a positive test result.
(Ord. No. 96-8, § X, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-54. - Referral, evaluation, and treatment.
(a)
Any driver, except for any driver applicant, who tests positive for drug use or alcohol misuse, will be advised of the resources available to the driver in evaluating and resolving problems associated with the misuse of alcohol and use of drugs including the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of substance abuse professionals and counseling and treatment programs. The city will bear the cost of providing this referral information.
(b)
In order for a driver who has tested positive for drug use or alcohol misuse to return to a position requiring the performance of a safety-sensitive function, that driver must be evaluated by a substance abuse professional who will determine what assistance, if any, the driver needs in resolving problems associated with alcohol misuse and drug use. Any driver identified as needing assistance in resolving such problems must successfully complete any rehabilitation program that is prescribed by a substance abuse professional before performing a safety-sensitive function. Follow-up testing will be conducted under the supervision of the substance abuse professional. Evaluation, assistance, rehabilitation, and follow-up testing will be obtained, if at all, at the cost of the driver. The city will not bear the cost of counseling, care or treatment. Because all drivers are at-will employees, the city will be under no obligation to rehire any driver whose employment was terminated because of substance abuse.
(Ord. No. 96-8, § XI, 1-2-1996)
Secs. 2-55—2-57. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CODE OF ETHICS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2000-1, adopted January 4, 2000, did not specifically amend the Code; hence, inclusion as §§ 2-58—2-65 was at the discretion of the editor.
State Law reference— Ethics in Government Act, O.C.G.A. § 21-5-1 et seq.; codes of ethics and conflicts of interest, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-58. - Purpose.
Declaration of policy. It is the policy of the city that the proper operation of democratic government requires that public officials be independent, impartial and responsible to the people; that governmental decisions and policy be made in proper channels of the governmental structure; that public office not be used for personal gain; and that the public have confidence in the integrity of its government. In recognition of these goals, a code of ethics for all city officials is adopted.
This code has the following purposes:
(1)
To encourage high ethical standards in official conduct by city officials;
(2)
To establish guidelines for ethical standards of conduct for all such officials by setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible with the best interest of the city;
(3)
To require disclosure by such officials of private financial or other interest in manners affect the city; and
(4)
To serve as a basis for disciplining those who refuse to abide by its terms. The provisions of this division shall not apply to political contributions, loans, expenditures, reports or regulation of political campaigns or the conduct of candidates in such campaigns.
(Ord. No. 2000-1, 1-4-2000)
Sec. 2-59. - Scope of persons covered.
The provisions of this code of ethics shall be applicable to all councilmembers, members of the planning and zoning commission, members of the board of zoning appeals, members of all advisory commissions, and committee members.
(Ord. No. 2000-1, 1-4-2000)
Sec. 2-60. - Definitions.
As used this division, the following terms shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates that a different meaning is intended:
City official or official shall mean, unless other expressly defined, the mayor, councilmembers, municipal court judges (including substitute judges), city manager, assistant city managers, city clerk, deputy city clerks, whether such person is salaried, hired or elected, and all other persons holding positions designated by the city Charter, as it may be amended from time to time. City official, unless otherwise expressly defined, includes individuals appointed by the mayor and city council to all city commissions, committees, boards, task forces, or other city bodies unless specifically exempted from this division by the city council.
Entity shall mean a sole proprietorship, partnership, limited partnership, firm, corporation, professional corporation, holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust or any other entity recognized by law through which business may be conducted.
Decision shall mean any ordinance, resolution, contract, franchise, formal action or other matter voted on by the city council or other city board or commission, as well as the discussions or deliberations of the council, board, or commission which can or may lead to a vote or formal action by that body.
Discretionary authority shall mean the power to exercise any judgment a decision or action.
Immediate family shall mean spouse, mother, father, brother, sister, son, or daughter of any city official.
Remote interest shall mean an interest of a person or entity, including a city official, who would be affected in the same way as the general public. The interest of a councilmember in the property tax rate, general city fees, city utility charges, or a comprehensive zoning ordinance or similar decisions in incidental to the extent that the councilmember would be affected in common with the general public.
Incidental interest shall mean an interest in a person, entity or property which is not a substantial interest and which has insignificant value.
Substantial interest shall mean a known interest, either directly or through a member of the immediate family, in another person or entity: (1) the interest is ownership of five percent or more of the voting stock, shares or equity of the entity or ownership of $5,000.00 or more of the equity or market value of the entity; or (2) funds received by the person from the other person or entity either during the previous 12 months or the previous calendar year equaled or exceeded $5,000.00 in salary, bonuses, commissions or professional fees or $5,000.00 in payment for goods, products or nonprofessional services, or ten percent of the recipient's gross income during that period, whichever is less; (3) the person serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of directors or other governing board of the for profit entity other than a corporate entity owned or created by the city council; or (4) the person is a creditor, debtor, or guarantor of the other person or entity in an amount of $5,000.00 or more. Substantial interest in real property means an interest in real property which is an equitable or legal ownership with a market value of $5,000.00 or more.
(Ord. No. 2000-1, 1-4-2000)
Sec. 2-61. - Standards of conduct.
(a)
No councilmember or member of any board or commission shall use such position to secure special privileges or exemptions for such person or others, or to secure confidential information for any purpose other than official responsibilities.
(b)
No councilmember or member of a board or commission, in any matter before the council, board or commission in which he has a substantial interest, shall fail to disclose for the common good for the record such interest prior to any discussion or vote.
(c)
No councilmember or member of a board or commission shall act as an agent or attorney for another in any matter before the city council or any board or commission.
(d)
No councilmember or commissioner shall directly or indirectly receive, or agree to receive, any compensation, gift, reward, or gratuity in any matter or proceeding connected with, or related to, the duties of his office except as may be provided by law.
(e)
No councilmember or member of any board or commission shall enter into any contract with the city except as specifically authorized by state statutes. Any councilmember or member of a board or commission who has a proprietary interest in an agency doing business with the city shall make known that interest in writing to the city council and the city clerk.
(f)
All public funds shall be used for the general welfare of the people and not for personal economic gain.
(g)
Public property shall be disposed of in accordance with Georgia law.
(h)
No city official shall solicit or accept other employment to be performed or compensation to be received while still a city official or employee, if the employment or compensation could reasonably be expected to impair in judgment or performance of city duties.
(i)
If a city official accepts or is soliciting a promise of future employment from any person or entity who has a substantial interest in a person, entity or property which would be affected by any decision upon which the official might reasonably be expected to act, investigate, advise, or make a recommendation, the official shall disclose the fact to the board or commission on which he serves or to his supervisor and shall take no further action on matters regarding the potential future employer.
(j)
No city official shall use city facilities, personnel, equipment or supplies for private purposes, except to the extent such are lawfully available to the public.
(k)
No city official or employee shall grant or make available to any person any consideration, treatment, advantage or favor beyond that which it is the general practice to grant or make available to the public at large.
(Ord. No. 2000-1, 1-4-2000)
State Law reference— Acquisition and disposition of real and personal property generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-62. - Prohibition of conflict of interest.
A city official may not participate in a vote or decision on a matter affecting a person, entity, or property in which the official or employee has a substantial interest; in addition, a city official or employee who serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of directors of a nonprofit entity may not participate in a vote or decision regarding funding by or through the city of the entity. Where the interest of a city official or employee in the subject matter of a vote or decision is remote or incidental, the city official or employee may participate in the vote or decision and need not disclose the interest.
(Ord. No. 2000-1, 1-4-2000)
Sec. 2-63. - Exemptions.
This code of ethics shall not be construed to require the filing of any information relating to any person's connection with or interest in any professional society or any charitable, religious, social, fraternal, educational, recreational, public service, civil or political organization, or any similar organization not conducted as a business enterprise or governmental agency, and which is not engaged in the ownership or conduct of a business enterprise or governmental agency.
(Ord. No. 2000-1, 1-4-2000)
Sec. 2-64. - Reserved.
Sec. 2-65. - Penalty.
Any persons violating any provisions of this policy are subject to:
(1)
Written and oral reprimand by the council, board, commission or committee of which said violator is a member.
(2)
A fine greater than $100.00 but less than $500.00 to be imposed by the council, commission, board or committee of which the violator is a member.
(3)
Request for resignation by the council, board, committee or commission of which the violator is a member.
Each council, board, commission or committee shall have authority to establish rules and regulations to impose said penalties.
(Ord. No. 2000-1, 1-4-2000)
ARTICLE III. - CITY COUNCIL[5]
Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Discretion of governing body as to management and disposition of property, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-2; personal liability of councilmembers and other municipal officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-4; acquisition and disposition of real and personal property generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-1 et seq.; disposition of municipal property generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-6; authority to dispose of public utility plants or properties, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-7; grants of state funds to municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-40-1 et seq.; code of ethics for government service, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-66—2-75. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MEETING ORGANIZATION AND PUBLIC ACCESS[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
State Law reference— Meetings to be open to public, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1; exemptions from open meeting requirements, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-3; due notice requirements for other than regular meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d); requirement to prescribe the time, place and dates of regular meetings of governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).

Sec. 2-76. - Open meetings.
All meetings of the city council shall be held in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq. The public shall at all times be afforded access to all meetings other than executive sessions.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.01, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-77. - Regular meetings and work sessions.
The regular meetings of the city council shall be held at 7:00 p.m., on the first and third Tuesdays of each month. All regular meetings shall be held in the municipal court building, unless an alternate location is decided as needed. A notice containing information described (time and place) in this section shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the general public at city hall. Work sessions can be called by the mayor or three council members prior to any regular meeting, on either or both the first and third Tuesdays of each month. When called, work sessions shall begin at 6:00 p.m. on the same days as the regularly scheduled meetings. Work session time and place must also be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the general public at city hall. No official action may be taken on any issue during a work session.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.14, 1-2-1996; Ord. No. 06(01)-2010, 6-15-2010; Ord. No. 01(01)-2012, 1-17-2012; Ord. No. 002 , 5-17-2022)
Sec. 2-78. - Special meetings and rescheduled regular meetings.
A regular meeting may be canceled, rescheduled or moved to a new location by the mayor for any reason. Other special meetings may be scheduled by the mayor or at the request of three councilmembers. Whenever a rescheduled regular meeting or any other special meeting is to be held at a time or place other than the regularly scheduled time or place, written notice of the change shall be posted for at least 24 hours at the place of the regular meetings. This written notice shall include the purpose of the meeting. In addition, written or oral notice shall be given by the clerk at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting to the legal organ of the county and to each councilmember.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.15, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-79. - Emergency meetings.
When emergency circumstances occur, the council may hold a meeting with less than 24 hours' notice to the public. When such meetings are to be held, the clerk shall provide notice to the legal organ of the county and to each councilmember as soon as possible. The notice shall include the subjects expected to be considered at the meeting. In addition, the minutes shall reflect the reason for the emergency meeting and the nature of the notice given to the media.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.16, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-80. - Executive session.
Executive sessions of the council may be held for the purpose of conducting business excepted from public access requirements as authorized by O.C.G.A. §§ 50-14-2 and 50-14-3. Where a meeting of the council is devoted in part to matters within the authorized exceptions to public access requirements, any portion of the meeting not subject to any such exceptions shall be open to the public. No executive session shall be held except pursuant to a majority affirmative vote of the council taken in a public meeting. The minutes of the public meeting shall reflect the names of the councilmembers present, those voting for the executive session and the specific reasons for the executive session. Minutes of the executive session may be maintained by the city clerk at the direction of the mayor. Any such minutes shall be maintained in a confidential file and shall not be subject to disclosure, except that disclosures of such portions of minutes identifying real estate to be acquired by the council may only be delayed until such time as the acquisition of the real estate has been completed, terminated, or abandoned or court proceedings have been initiated. Voting on any issue shall not take place during a closed meeting but shall be done, if appropriate, in open session following the executive session.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.17, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-81. - Quorum.
A quorum must be present for conducting meetings of the council. A quorum is a majority of all the members of the council then in office. It is the duty of the mayor to enforce this rule. Any councilmember may raise a point of order directed to the mayor if he believes that a quorum is not present. If, during the course of a meeting, a councilmember leaves and a quorum no longer exists, the meeting cannot continue. If a quorum is not attained within 30 minutes, the meeting will be rescheduled by the mayor with the approval of the councilmembers present.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.02, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-82. - Voting majority.
Passage of a motion, resolution or ordinance shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of councilmembers present and voting at a meeting at which a quorum is present.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.03, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-83. - Abstentions.
A councilmember shall vote on all motions unless he has a conflict of interest which could prevent him from making a decision in a fair and legal manner. If a conflict of interest does exist, the councilmember shall explain for the record his decision to abstain on any vote.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.04, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-84. - Mayor.
The mayor shall serve as the chief executive officer of the city. The mayor is responsible for the orderly conduct of the meeting. In order to fulfill this duty, the mayor must enforce the rules of procedure that are adopted by the councilmembers. The mayor shall be impartial and conduct the meetings in a fair manner. The mayor only votes in case of a tie.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.05, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-84.1. - Mayor's emergency powers.
The city has from time to time in the past and will from time to time in the future in all probability have, within its corporate limits, natural disasters, civil disturbances, riots, water and sewer shortages, and electric disturbances and shortages. It is deemed in the best interest of the city to exercise certain emergency police powers necessary and incidental to the maintenance of the safety, health and welfare of the citizenry of the city. These powers shall be placed in the hands of the chief executive of the city and shall be exercised only in the event of an emergency as herein contemplated and shall only be exercised for such periods of time as the actual emergency exists. Said powers shall only be invoked after a declaration and proclamation of an emergency.
(Ord. No. 99-9, § 1, 11-2-1999)
Cross reference— Civil emergencies, ch. 30.
Sec. 2-84.2. - Additional emergency powers.
In addition to the other emergency powers of the city, the mayor, as chief executive of the city, shall have the following additional emergency powers. The mayor shall have the right to declare an emergency to exist when, in his opinion, any one or more of the following conditions exist:
(1)
That there is extreme likelihood of danger of destruction of life or property due to unusual conditions.
(2)
Unusual or extreme weather conditions, making use of city streets or areas difficult or impossible.
(3)
Civil unrest, commotion or uprising is imminent or exists.
(4)
There is a stoppage of loss of electrical power, water or sewer service affecting a major portion of the city.
(Ord. No. 99-9, § 2, 11-2-1999)
Sec. 2-84.3. - Right to exercise powers.
After declaration of such emergency the mayor, as chief executive, shall have the right to exercise any or all of the following powers:
(a)
The power to use employees of the city and special police other than employees of the police department to assist in the safety and preservation of life, limb and property of the citizenry of the city.
(b)
The power to close streets and sidewalks and to delineate areas within the city wherein an emergency exists.
(c)
The power to impose emergency curfew regulations.
(d)
The power to close business establishments within the affected area.
(e)
The power to close any and all municipally owned buildings and other facilities to the use of the general public; and the power in case of water, sewer, and/or electric disturbances/shortages to stop any usage deemed necessary for the well-being of the citizens of the city.
(f)
The power to do any and all acts necessary and incidental to the preservation of life, limb and property of the citizenry of the city.
(g)
No emergency power as set forth herein may be effective for more than 72 hours after the declaration of an emergency by the mayor.
(h)
No emergency period shall extend beyond the next regular or special meeting of the council.
(i)
Violation of any section of this division or of any order of the mayor under this division shall be punishable by a fine of up to $500.00 and/or 30 days or both in the city jail.
(Ord. No. 99-9, § 3, 11-2-1999)
Sec. 2-85. - Mayor pro tempore; duties.
The mayor pro tempore shall fulfill the duties of the mayor if the mayor is not in attendance. If the mayor and the mayor pro tempore are absent and a quorum is present, the remaining councilmembers shall select a councilmember to serve as temporary mayor of the meeting until either the mayor or mayor pro tempore is present at the meeting.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.06, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-86. - Agenda.
The mayor shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. An agenda shall be made available to the councilmembers at least one business day prior to the day of a regularly scheduled meeting. A copy of the agenda and a list of those members present shall be made available to the public for inspection within two business days of the adjournment of any meeting.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.07, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-87. - Minutes.
The city clerk shall promptly record the minutes for each council meeting. The minutes serve as the official written record of the council meeting and shall be open for public inspection once approved as official by the council but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the board. The minutes shall specify the names of councilmembers present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made at the meeting, the councilmember who proposed each motion, the councilmember who seconded each motion, and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll call vote, the name of each councilmember voting for or against a proposal shall be recorded. It shall be presumed that a councilmember has voted in the affirmative unless the minutes show otherwise. More detailed information may be included in the minutes at the request of the council. The council must approve the minutes before they can be considered as an official record of the board. A copy of the minutes from the previous meeting shall be distributed to the councilmembers at least one business day before the following meeting. The minutes of the previous meetings shall be corrected and approved by the council at the beginning of each regular meeting. A majority vote is required for approval. Conflicts about the content of the minutes shall be decided by majority vote. Upon being approved, the minutes shall be attested to by the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.08, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-88. - Order of business.
All regular council meetings shall follow an established order of business. The order is as follows:
(1)
Call to order;
(2)
Approval of minutes;
(3)
Invited guests;
(4)
Reports from committees and departments;
(5)
Old business;
(6)
New business;
(7)
Public comments; and
(8)
Adjournment.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.09, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-89. - Decorum.
All councilmembers must conduct themselves in a professional and respectful manner. A councilmember is not allowed to speak at a meeting until he has been recognized by the mayor. All comments made by a councilmember shall address the motion being discussed. The mayor shall enforce these rules of decorum. If a councilmember believes that a rule has been broken, he can raise a point of order. A second is not required. The mayor can rule on the question or he can allow the council to debate the issues and decide the issue by majority vote.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.10, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-90. - Public participation.
Public participation in meetings of the council shall be permitted in accordance with the following provisions of this section:
(1)
Public comments. The final agenda item of the meetings shall be reserved for comments from the public relating to matters that were either on the published agenda, added to the agenda or the subject of discussion by the mayor and city council at the meeting. Individuals from the public will be allotted five minutes to make their comments and their comments must be limited to their announced topic. Public comment on matters that were neither on the agenda nor discussed at the meeting will not be allowed without a majority vote of the council. These limits can be waived by a majority vote of the council.
(2)
Public participation on agenda items. Public comment on an agenda item at the time the item is being considered by the council is allowed. These comments must be limited to the subject that is being debated. Members of the public may speak for five minutes and may only speak once. This privilege or these limits can be waived by a majority vote of the council. Anyone wishing to speak at any council meeting must be recognized by the mayor before addressing the council.
(3)
Decorum. Members of the public shall not make inappropriate or offensive comments at a council meeting and are expected to comply with the rules of decorum that are established for the mayor and council. Individuals who violate any rules of the council may be ruled out of order by the mayor or on a point of order made by a councilmember. A majority vote of the council will rule on the point of order. Any individual who violates the rules of decorum may be removed from the meeting at the direction of the mayor.
(4)
Public hearings. The council may schedule public hearings for the purpose of soliciting public comment on any subject of interest to the council. Hearings may be held immediately prior to, during, or following a meeting of the council or at such other places and times as the council may determine. No official action shall be taken at any such public hearing unless it is conducted during a regular or called meeting of the council.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.11, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-91. - Parliamentarian.
The mayor shall serve as the parliamentarian for council meetings.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.12, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-92. - Amendments to rules.
Any amendments to these rules of order must be submitted by a councilmember in writing to the city clerk three business days before a regular meeting of the council. The proposed amendment shall be included in the agenda for that meeting and distributed to all councilmembers. All amendments require a majority vote of the council.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.13, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-93. - Suspending the rules of order.
Rules of order may be suspended in the case of an emergency. A motion to suspend the rules requires a second, is debatable and requires a majority vote of the council. Rules governing quorum (section 2-81), voting methods and requirements (sections 2-82 and 2-83), the notification to councilmembers of meetings (sections 2-78 and 2-79) and rules necessary for compliance with state law cannot be suspended.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.18, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-94. - Committees.
The mayor may create committees of members of the council to study any issue before the council. Any such committees may make recommendations to the council, but no committee shall be empowered to make any final decisions on any matter before it for consideration. In addition to councilmembers, committees may include other city officials, staff or citizens at large. Whenever a committee is created, its duties, any limitation of the scope of its duties, and the times, places and periods of time for which the committee may operate shall be determined by the mayor.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.19, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-95. - Visual and sound recordings.
Visual, sound, and visual and sound records shall be permitted for all public meetings.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1.20, 1-2-1996)
Secs. 2-96—2-115. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE

Sec. 2-116. - Main motion.
In order for the council to take any official action on any subject, a councilmember must propose a main motion. A proposed main motion will not be recognized by the mayor until another councilmember agrees to second the motion. A second does not require the councilmember seconding the motion to support the motion. A councilmember may withdraw a main motion that he has made at any time before the council has voted on that motion.
(Ord. No. 96-6, § 1.01, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-117. - Debate.
After the main motion is recognized by the mayor, the council shall debate the motion. The debate shall be managed by the mayor in a manner that is fair to all members of the council. Councilmembers can participate in the debate only when they are recognized by the mayor. During the course of debate, councilmembers may introduce subsidiary motions that propose that the council take a particular action on a motion (section 2-120). There are two classes of subsidiary motions: debatable subsidiary motions and undebatable subsidiary motions. Debatable subsidiary motions consist of motions to postpone indefinitely, amend, refer to committee, and postpone to a time certain. Debatable subsidiary motions require a second before they can be voted on or debated. There are three undebatable subsidiary motions: limit debate, vote immediately, and lay on the table. They require a second and cannot be debated. Councilmembers may also introduce privileged motions (section 2-122). Privileged motions facilitate the running of the meeting and can be introduced during the course of debate. Privileged motions consist of a motion to raise a question of privilege and motions to recess and adjourn. The motions to recess and adjourn require a second. Debate is not allowed on privileged motions.
(Ord. No. 96-6, § 1.02, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-118. - Voting procedure.
Voting on debatable motions and voting on undebatable motions shall take place in accordance with the following provisions:
(1)
Debatable motions. In the case of debatable motions, the vote can be proposed in one of two ways:
a.
If debate has been completed and no other councilmember wishes to speak, the mayor can call for the vote. If there are no objections, then the mayor can proceed with the vote.
b.
If the mayor calls for the vote and there is an objection, a councilmember may move to vote immediately (move the question). If this motion is seconded and approved by a majority vote, debate will stop. The mayor will then read the proposed motion to the council and ask for the votes of the council.
(2)
Undebatable motions. In the case of undebatable motions, the vote shall occur immediately after the motion is recognized by the mayor. The mayor shall read the proposed motion to the council and then call for the vote.
(Ord. No. 96-6, § 1.03, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-119. - Ranking of motions.
Each subsidiary and privileged motion is assigned a specific rank. A motion of higher precedence can interrupt a motion of lower precedence. The higher motion must be decided before the council returns to consider the motion of lower precedence. A main motion has the lowest rank and does not take precedence over any other motion. A motion to adjourn has the highest rank and will take precedence over all other subsidiary and privileged motions. The order of precedence of motions shall be in accordance with this section. Motions at the bottom of the following list take precedence over motions at the top of the list:
(1)
Lowest rank, main motion.
(2)
Subsidiary motions (debatable):
a.
Postpone indefinitely;
b.
Amend;
c.
Refer to committee (commit); and
d.
Postpone to a time certain.
(3)
Subsidiary motions (undebatable):
a.
Limit debate or extend limits;
b.
Vote immediately (previous question); and
c.
Lay on the table (postpone temporarily).
(4)
Privileged motions (undebatable):
a.
Question of privilege;
b.
Recess; and
c.
Highest rank, adjourn.
(Ord. No. 96-6, § 1.04, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-120. - Subsidiary motions.
During the course of debate, councilmembers may introduce motions that propose that the council take a particular action on a main motion. These motions are called subsidiary motions, and they allow the council to reach a conclusion on the main motion. Subsidiary motions require a second before they can be voted on or debated. Three subsidiary motions: amend, limit debate, and vote immediately, can also apply to subsidiary motions.
(1)
Postpone indefinitely. If a councilmember believes that the main motion should not be considered by the council, that councilmember may move to postpone the consideration of the main motion indefinitely. If the motion is successful, consideration of the main motion stops and the main motion is tabled. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(2)
Amend. If a councilmember believes that a main motion that is on the table should be changed in order to make it more acceptable, he can move to amend the motion. Amendments must be closely related to the original motion and must not change the nature of the motion that they amend. Motions to refer, amend, postpone to a time certain, and the motion to recess can also be amended. A motion cannot be amended more than two times. Debate is allowed on a motion to amend only if the original motion is debatable. A majority vote is required for the council to adopt an amendment. If the amendment is adopted, then the council shall consider the amended version of the motion.
(3)
Refer to a committee (commit). If the mayor believes that further information is needed before the council can act on a main motion, the mayor may propose that the motion be referred to a specific committee or department for further study. If an appropriate committee does not already exist, then a committee may be formed as a part of the motion. A motion to refer should specify the date that the committee or department will report back to the council.
(4)
Postpone to a time certain (postpone definitely). A motion to postpone to a certain time may be proposed if a councilmember believes that the main motion should not be considered until a future time. This motion shall set a particular time for the main motion to be considered again. It is debatable and can be amended. If this motion is passed, the mayor will bring the original motion back to the council for consideration at the specified time. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(5)
Limit or extend limits of debate. A motion to limit debate places a time constraint on the length of debate. The details of such a motion are to be decided by the councilmember who makes the motion. This motion can also be used to extend the limits of debate if a limit on debate already exists. Debate is not allowed on this motion and a majority vote is required.
(6)
Vote immediately (previous question). If a councilmember believes that the motion that is being considered should be voted on, the councilmember can move to vote immediately. The motion is undebatable, and a majority vote is required.
(Ord. No. 96-6, §§ 1.05.01—1.05.06, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-121. - Lay on the table (postpone temporarily).
A motion to lay on the table proposes that the consideration of a main motion be postponed until a later time in the meeting. The motion can be brought up for consideration only if a motion to resume consideration is accepted by the council during the same meeting. The motion will die if it is not taken up during the meeting. Debate is not allowed on this motion and the motion is not amendable. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(Ord. No. 96-6, § 1.05.07, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-122. - Privileged motions.
Privileged motions facilitate the running of the meeting. They do not address or relate to a main motion and can be introduced whether or not there is a main motion under consideration. Privileged motions take precedence over all subsidiary motions. Debate is not allowed on the following motions:
(1)
Question of privilege. A formal question addressed to the mayor concerning the rights of a councilmember or of the council as a whole is referred to as a question of privilege. It does not require a second and cannot be debated or amended. The mayor is required to make a ruling on the question.
(2)
Recess. A motion to recess proposes that the meeting be suspended for a particular amount of time. The motion must specify the length of the recess. The motion must also be seconded. Debate is not allowed on this motion, but the motion can be amended. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(3)
Adjourn. In order for a meeting to come to a close, a councilmember must make a motion to adjourn. The motion to adjourn has the highest rank of any motion and as a result it can be introduced at any time. The motion requires a second, but is not debatable or amendable. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(Ord. No. 96-6, § 1.06, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-123. - Incidental motions.
Incidental motions allow councilmembers to exert their right as a councilmember. The following incidental motions can be introduced at any time during a meeting:
(1)
Appeal. If a councilmember disagrees with a decision that is made by the mayor, that councilmember may appeal the decision. If the appeal is seconded, the appeal will be considered by the council. The mayor has the opportunity to explain the ruling that has been challenged. The council may then debate the appeal. The council shall decide by majority vote if the mayor's decision is to be upheld or overturned. An appeal is high in precedence and can only be interrupted by a privileged motion or by a motion to lay on the table.
(2)
Parliamentary inquiry. If a councilmember has a question about the rules of order, he may ask the mayor to give an opinion on that question. This question should take the form of a parliamentary inquiry and should relate to the current business of the council. This motion takes precedence over all motions except privileged motions. This motion does not require a second and is not debatable or amendable.
(3)
Point of order (question of order). If a councilmember believes that a violation of the rules of parliamentary procedure has occurred, he can raise a point of order. A second is not required. The mayor can make a ruling on the question or can allow the council to debate and then rule on the question by majority vote. A point of order can only be interrupted by a privileged motion or a motion to lay on the table.
(4)
Point of information (request for information). If a councilmember has a question about the facts of a particular issue that is being considered, he may ask a point of information. This motion is addressed first to the mayor and then to the appropriate person. A second is not required and the motion is not debatable or amendable.
(Ord. No. 96-6, § 1.07, 1-2-1996)
Sec. 2-124. - Supplementary main motions.
Three motions allow the council to act on a main motion that has either been passed or tabled by the council. The following motions are considered to be main motions but differ from usual main motions in the ways specified:
(1)
Reconsider. The motion to reconsider allows the council to debate whether or not to overturn a decision made at the meeting that is in progress. It allows the council to consider new information that may affect the decision that has already been made. Any councilmember can make a motion to reconsider and any councilmember may second the motion. The motion is debatable but it cannot be amended. A majority vote of the council is required for the motion to pass. If a motion to reconsider is passed, the original decision will be voided and the council will return to debate and vote the original motion.
(2)
Rescind. A motion to rescind proposes that the council overturn a motion passed at a previous meeting. A motion to rescind can be made by any councilmember. It is in order as long as the original motion has not been implemented. An announcement of the intention to rescind a motion may be made at the meeting where the decision was made, or the councilmember seeking to rescind may place the matter on the agenda for the next meeting pursuant to section 2-86. The motion to rescind will then be placed on the agenda for the next meeting. At the next meeting, the motion to rescind will formally be made. If it is seconded, then the council shall debate and vote on rescission. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass. If a motion to rescind is passed, the original decision will be voided.
(3)
Resume consideration. The motion to resume consideration allows the council to consider a motion that has been temporarily postponed. This motion requires a second and is not debatable or amendable. It is a main motion but ranks higher than any debatable motion. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(Ord. No. 96-6, § 1.08, 1-2-1996)
