Chapter 26 - CEMETERIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Vegetation, ch. 70.
State Law reference— Georgia Cemetery and Funeral Services Act of 2000, O.C.G.A. § 10-14-1 et seq.; criminal trespass and damage to property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-20 et seq.; disposition of unclaimed dead bodies, O.C.G.A. § 31-21-20 et seq.; abandoned cemeteries and burial grounds, O.C.G.A. § 36-72-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - Rules and regulations.
The following rules and regulations shall be observed in the use of the city cemetery:
(1)
The City of Jackson, Georgia, a municipal corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Georgia, (herein referred to as city) and owner and operator of the city cemetery does, in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia and its governing body, reserve the right to refuse admission to the cemetery and the use of its facilities at any time and to any person or persons whom the management may deem objectionable to the best interest of the cemetery.
(2)
Deeds to cemetery lots, columbarium niches, and mausoleum crypts will be withheld until the sale price of such lot or crypt is paid in full.
(3)
No lot, niche, or crypt shall be used for any other purpose than for the burial of the human dead.
(4)
No more than one body shall be buried in any one grave space or mausoleum crypt; however, for cemetery deeds issued prior to August 7, 2007, a grave space may be equally divided into two, five feet by five feet spaces to allow for the burial of cremation urns only. Only one urn may be buried in each five-foot by five-foot grave space.
(5)
Lots of various sizes are available and requests for lot subdivision will not be considered justifiable.
(6)
The right to enlarge, reduce, replat, or change the boundaries or grading of the cemetery, or a section or sections, from time to time, including the right to modify or change the location of, or remove or replace roads, drives, or walks, or any part thereof is hereby reserved. The right to lay, maintain and operate, or alter or change pipe lines or gutters for sprinkling systems, drainage, et cetera, is also expressly reserved, as well as is the right to use cemetery property not sold to individual plot owners for cemetery purposes, including interment of the dead, or for anything necessary, incidental or convenient thereto. The city reserves to itself and to those lawfully entitled thereto a perpetual right of ingress and egress over plots for the purpose of passing to and from plots.
(7)
The city will take all reasonable precautions to protect lot, niche, and crypt owners and the property within the cemetery, but the city distinctly disclaims all responsibility for loss or damage from causes beyond its reasonable control, and especially from damage caused by the elements, an act of God, common enemy, thieves, vandals, strikers, malicious mischief makers, explosions, unavoidable accidents, invasions, insurrections, riots, or order of any military or civil authority, whether the damage be direct or collateral, other than as herein provided.
(8)
The city reserves, and shall have, the right to correct any errors that may be made in measurements, description, interments, disinterments or removals or transfer or conveyance of any interment property. Such collections shall be made either by cancellation, substitution, refund, or such other action as is deemed practical.
(9)
Once a casket containing a body is within the confines of the cemetery, no funeral director, nor his embalmer, assistant, employee, or agent, shall be permitted to open the casket or to touch the body without the consent of the legal representative of the deceased or an order signed by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(10)
In order to maintain a high standard of care and to eliminate sunken graves caused by the collapse of wooden boxes, it is required that all materials be made, of reinforced concrete. All such containers must be made and installed so as to meet specifications established by the city.
(11)
Owners of cemetery lots, niches, and crypts shall not allow interments to be made in their lots, niches, or crypts for recommendation; nor shall any transfer or assignment of any lot, niche, or crypt or any interest therein, be valid without the consent, in writing of the City of Jackson, Georgia or its authorized representative. The written endorsement must appear on the writing of transfer or assignment of such document shall be considered invalid.
(12)
Trees, shrubs, or plants will not be planted, altered, or removed without the express consent of the city.
(13)
If any trees or shrubs situated in any lot shall, by means of their roots or branches become detrimental to the adjacent lots, unsightly, or inconvenient to the setup for a funeral service the city shall have the right to enter the said lot and remove the said trees and shrubs, or such parts as shall be determined detrimental, unsightly, or inconvenient.
(14)
All lot enclosures of any kind whatever are prohibited except in sections 1 through 10.
(15)
All grave preparers must obtain burial permits from city hall prior to commencement of work for burial, entombment, or disinterment. The person or firm requesting such permit may be required to furnish satisfactory evidence of their ability to properly perform the work proposed and furnish the city with a current certificate of Insurance. Preparers are responsible for settling of grave space for six months after interment.
(16)
All memorials and markers are restricted by the city as to size, material, design, lettering, location, and installations. All persons installing these memorials and markers must obtain a permit for such installation at city hall prior to commencement of work. The person or firm requesting such permit may be required to furnish satisfactory evidence of their ability to properly perform the work performed and furnish the city with a current certificate of insurance.
a.
Material: All monuments and/or markers and benches must be of first quality marble or granite. All monuments and markers are to be guaranteed for a period of five years against sap and components which cause rust stains, and from natural faults which might cause checks or cracks. If such defects appear from subquality material, improper finishing or lettering, the manufacturer will replace the fault stone without cost to the city or lot owner. Grave, lot markers and crypt doors shall be finished to the design normally considered standard for the type of stone used, and lettered incisely only (cut in). Inscriptions on the crypt doors shall be only three-inch block letters and contain small symbols which must be approved by the superintendent of the cemetery or other representative of the City of Jackson prior to such inscriptions. All such lettering to be cut on crypt doors must conform to the style, size and spacing of the lettering which has already been cut on crypt doors, which doors are already in place on the mausoleum. In the event such future lettering does not conform to the above specification, a new crypt door must be provided with the lettering to conform to these specifications. Niche doors will be lettered by a contractor with the city, as lettering (name, date of birth, and date of death) is included in the price.
b.
Placement: Monument builders shall set monuments and markers in accordance with the trade standards of proper handling and settling, and according to city specifications. Any fault resulting from improper settling within five years from date of placement in the cemetery shall be rectified by the dealer without cost to the city or lot owner. Grave markers shall not be less than four inches, or more than five inches above the ground elevation. Corner markers shall be no more than one inch above the ground elevation. No family memorial shall be placed on any lot having a dimension of less than ten feet to either width or depth.
c.
Foundations: Foundations for all monuments and markers will be installed by the monument erector.
d.
Size of monuments and markers: Individual grave markers for adults shall be a minimum of 12 inches in width and 24 inches in length. Infant markers shall be a minimum of ten inches in width and 18 inches in length. Grave markers shall be no less than four inches nor more than six inches in thickness. Corner markers shall not exceed six inches in width and breadth, and eight inches in height.
e.
Memorial sizes: Monuments on individual lots shall not exceed 36 inches in length. Monuments on double lots shall not exceed 84 inches in length.
f.
Right to remove: Should any monument, marker, effigy, enclosure, or inscription, in the opinion of the city, be considered offensive or improper; or become unsightly, dilapidated, or a menace to safety, the city reserves the right to either correct the condition or remove the same at the expense of the owner. Metal markers, ornaments, chairs, or similar articles of any construction are not permitted, and the right to remove them is reserved.
(17)
Religious, fraternal, military symbols or other appropriate markings are allowed and encouraged as a part of the monumental inscriptions.
(18)
Flowers and floral designs are allowed but must be kept immediately adjacent to headstones. During the time of year for the cemetery to be mowed, care must be taken to ensure that flowers do not interfere with the mowing of the cemetery. Caution should be given in choosing artificial flowers as some dyes run and can deface monuments. Decorations/trinkets may be removed if they interfere with mowing. No holes are to be dug in the ground. The city reserves the right to remove any flowers, wreaths, flower pots, vases, trees, shrubs or objects of any kind, if, in the opinion of the city they become unsightly, or a menace to safety.
(19)
The city hereby expressly reserves the right to adopt additional rules and regulations, as amend, alter or repeal any rule, regulation, article, section, paragraph or sentence in these rules and regulations, at any time, and without notice.
(20)
No person shall be entombed in a city-owned or privately-owned above ground mausoleum or columbarium until the deceased's body has either been embalmed or cremated.
(Ord. of 1-2-1996; Amend. of 2-5-2008; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Sec. 26-2. - Additional regulations.
The following cemetery regulations shall also be observed:
(1)
Use of bicycles, skates, skateboards or other such vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to bring a bicycle, skates, skateboard, or other recreational wheeled device into any area set aside for the interment of human remains within the city.
(2)
Loitering or causing noise and disturbance. It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, make noise, or in any way create a disturbance in the area of any place within the city which is set aside for the interment of human remains.
(3)
Restrictions on gatherings of persons. It shall be unlawful for any group of persons to gather in any area set aside for the interment of human remains within this city for any purpose other than preparation of spaces for interment, funeral services, memorial services, or other such gatherings specifically related to some decedent interred in such cemetery, niche, or mausoleum.
(4)
Penalty for violation of section. Any person violating this section shall be issued a citation for appearance before the judge of the municipal court. For the first violation, an offender shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $200.00, confinement not to exceed 30 days, or both. For the second and any subsequent violation by the same person, the penalty shall be a fine not to exceed $500.00, confinement not to exceed six months, or both. For purposes of this section, each act constituting a violation of this section shall be considered a separate offense punishable separately, and any violation of this section which occurs after the issuance of a citation for a previous violation shall be considered a second or subsequent violation.
(Ord. No. 95-2, §§ A—D, 5-8-1995; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Secs. 26-3—26-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BURIALS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 26-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Approved burial space preparer or preparer means a person approved by the city clerk to dig graves and prepare burial spaces for the interment of human remains in burial spaces provided or maintained by the city.
Funeral director means a person legally licensed and empowered by the state to practice the profession of funeral directing as defined under the terms of O.C.G.A. § 43-18-1.
Grave preparation/entombment permit or permit means a written permit obtained either by a funeral director or an approved burial space preparer specifying a burial or entombment space and granting permission for either the digging of a grave or the opening of a niche or mausoleum space.
Permit fee means the fee established by the city council and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, the payment of which shall be required prior to the issuance of a grave preparation/entombment permit.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § IV, 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 26-32. - Delegation of clerical or bookkeeping duties by city clerk.
The city clerk may delegate any clerical or bookkeeping duties contained in this article but shall retain all power and authority granted in this article.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § IV, 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Secs. 26-33—26-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BURIAL SPACE PREPARERS

Sec. 26-51. - List of approved preparers to be maintained.
The city clerk shall maintain at the city hall a list of approved burial space preparers which shall be updated on at least an annual basis. Permits shall only be issued to funeral directors or to funeral space preparers currently in good standing with the city and currently upon the approved list.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § II(A), 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Sec. 26-52. - Qualifications for approval.
In order to qualify for inclusion upon the city's approved list of preparers, a party must meet the following qualifications:
(1)
A preparer must provide to the city clerk satisfactory written proof of adequate training and expertise sufficient to assure the city that the preparer has a working understanding of all state law and local rules and regulations relating to the preparation of burial spaces for the interment of human remains and preparation of mausoleum or columbarium spaces for the entombment of human remains.
(2)
A preparer must supply written certificate of insurance coverage sufficient to insure against any damage done by the preparer to any property of the city or property the maintenance of which is undertaken by the city.
(3)
The preparer must sign a written guarantee that he shall be financially responsible to the city for any such damage done by the preparer, its agents or employees.
(4)
Any funeral director shall be qualified to act as a preparer, provided he provides the guarantee of financial responsibility and certificate of insurance described in subsection (2) of this section.
(5)
No person may be placed upon the approved list or remain upon the approved list while such person is delinquent in its payment to the city of any fee, account, fine, interest or other legal charge owed to the city.
(6)
No person may be placed upon the approved list or remain upon the approved list unless such person or entity maintains a valid business license.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § II(B), 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Sec. 26-53. - Insurance required.
The city council shall from time to time specify by resolution the type and amount of insurance coverage required, and the city clerk shall provide such information to all preparers on the current approved list and all applicants for approval.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § II(C), 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Sec. 26-54. - Review of application for approved status; approval or denial; appeal for review; final decision.
The city clerk shall approve or deny any application for approved status within five business days following application. Any person denied approval by the city clerk may appeal the decision to the city council by submitting a request for review to the city council in writing within ten days of denial of approved status by the city clerk. The city council shall give its final decision within the next two regular meetings of the city council following receipt of a written request for review. Any decision made by the city council, while exercising its review powers under this article, shall be in writing and shall state specific reasons for the decision.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § II(D), 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Sec. 26-55. - Removal from list; sufficient causes enumerated.
Any preparer or funeral director may be removed from the approved list by the city clerk, or council designee, for cause, provided the city clerk shall provide notice of such action and the reason by certified mail to the last known address of such party, and further provided that the party so removed from the list shall have a right to have the decision of the city clerk reviewed by application in writing delivered to the city council within ten days of receipt of the notice of removal, or within 15 days of the mailing of the notice by certified mail, whichever shall first occur. The city council will review the decision of the city clerk and give its final decision within the next two regular meetings of the city council following the receipt of written application for review. Any of the following shall be sufficient cause for removal from the approved list:
(1)
Failure to satisfy all financial accounts with the city relating to funeral services prior to breaking ground upon a grave site or opening a mausoleum or columbarium space;
(2)
Failure to abide by any state law or local rule or regulation the violation of which results in a detriment to the city;
(3)
Failure to maintain current proof of financial responsibility and a certificate of insurance as required by this article;
(4)
Any act by any principal, agent or employee of any preparer or funeral director in or around any cemetery or mausoleum of the city which shall have an unreasonably derogatory affect upon the peace, dignity or aesthetic appeal of same; or
(5)
Any other reason that the city council decides is a sufficient cause and is fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § II(E), 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Secs. 26-56—26-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PREPARATION/ENTOMBMENT AND DISINTERMENT PERMITS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, adopted July 20, 2010, changed the title of division 3 from "Preparation/Entombment Permits" to "Preparation/Entombment and Disinterment Permits."

Sec. 26-71. - Application; separate permit required for each grave or space; contents.
The city clerk, or council designee, may issue permits to any preparer or funeral director currently in good standing upon proper application. A separate permit shall be required for each grave, crypt, or mausoleum space. The permit shall plainly state the location of the burial or entombment or disinterment space and shall grant the preparer or funeral director a right of access to same. Application for disinterment permit must be accompanied with a permit for disposition of human remains (obtained from vital records service). All permit applications must include full name (including maiden name) date of birth and date of death. Signature of the funeral director is required on all permits.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § III(A), 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Sec. 26-72. - Applicant qualifications and status to be checked prior to issuance.
Prior to issuance of any permit, the city clerk, or council designee, shall check the records of the city to ensure that the applicant is currently upon the approved list, is currently maintaining all qualifications required, has no outstanding balance owed for any prior funeral services, and has paid the proper fee for the permit.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § III(B), 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Sec. 26-73. - Fee schedules.
The city council shall from time to time establish by resolution fee schedules for the issuance of permits under this article. Fee schedules shall be maintained at city hall. The city council shall be empowered to change fees at any time without notice or grace period, and any applicant for a permit must pay the fee in effect on the day the permit is actually issued.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § III(C), 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Sec. 26-74. - Period of validity; refunds.
Any permit issued under this article shall be effective for no more than ten days after the date of issuance. If the burial or entombment space is not disturbed within such time period, the holder of the permit may apply to the city clerk for a refund. Within ten days following application for a refund, the superintendent of the city department with responsibility for the cemetery shall inspect the burial or entombment space and certify to the city clerk as to whether or not the space has been disturbed. If the space has not been disturbed and the original permit is delivered to the city clerk for cancellation, the city clerk shall be authorized to refund the permit fee, less the administrative fee established by the city council upon its fee schedule. If the party to whom the permit was issued owes the city any fee or account for any purpose, the city clerk will be authorized to apply that portion of the permit fee which is refunded first to payment of any fee, account, fine, interest or other charge against the party to whom the permit was issued. The balance, if any, shall be remitted to the party to whom the permit was issued within five business days after the day upon which the superintendent certifies to the city clerk that the space has not been disturbed.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § III(D), 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Secs. 26-75—26-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - MONUMENTS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 26-91. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Approved monument installer (installer) means a person approved by the city clerk, or council designee, to install monuments, headstones, footmarkers or other markers at burial spaces provided or maintained by the city.
Funeral director means a person legally licensed and empowered by the state to practice the profession of funeral directing as defined under the terms of O.C.G.A. § 43-18-1.
Monument installation permit or permit means a written permit obtained either by a funeral director or an approved monument installer specifying a burial or entombment space and granting permission for installation of a monument.
Permit fee means the fee established by the city council, the payment of which shall be required prior to the issuance of a monument installation permit.
(Ord. No. 94-10, § I, 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 26-92. - Delegation of clerical or bookkeeping duties of city clerk.
The city clerk may delegate any clerical or bookkeeping duties contained in this article but shall retain all power and authority granted in this article.
(Ord. No. 94-10, § IV, 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Secs. 26-93—26-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MONUMENT INSTALLERS

Sec. 26-111. - List of approved installers to be maintained.
The city clerk, or council designee, shall maintain at the city hall a list of approved monument installers which shall be updated on at least an annual basis. Permits shall only be issued to funeral directors or to monument installers currently in good standing with the city and currently upon the approved list.
(Ord. No. 94-10, § II(A), 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Sec. 26-112. - Qualifications for approval.
In order to qualify for inclusion upon the city's approved list of installers, a party must meet the following qualifications:
(1)
An installer must provide to the city clerk, or council designee, satisfactory written proof of adequate training and expertise sufficient to assure the city that the installer has a working understanding of all state law and local rules and regulations relating to the installation of monuments.
(2)
An installer must supply written certification of insurance coverage sufficient to insure against any damage done by the installer to any property of the city or property the maintenance of which is undertaken by the city.
(3)
The installer must sign a written guarantee that he shall be financially responsible to the city for any such damage done by the installer, its agents or employees.
(4)
Any funeral director shall be qualified to act as an installer, provided he provides the guarantee of financial responsibility and certificate of insurance described in subsection (2) of this section.
(5)
No person may be placed upon the approved list or remain upon the approved list while such person is delinquent in his payment to the city of any fee, account, fine, interest or other legal charge owed to the city.
(6)
No person may be placed upon the approved list or remain upon the approved list unless such person maintains a valid business license.
(Ord. No. 94-10, § II(B), 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Sec. 26-113. - Insurance required.
The city council shall from time to time specify by resolution the type and amount of insurance coverage required, and the city clerk shall provide such information to all installers on the current approved list and all applicants for approval.
(Ord. No. 94-10, § II(C), 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Sec. 26-114. - Review of application for approved status; approval or denial; appeal for review; final decision.
The city clerk, or council designee, shall approve or deny any application for approved status within five business days following application. Any person denied approval may appeal the decision to the city council by submitting a request for review to the city council in writing within ten days of denial of approved status. The city council shall give its final decision within the next two regular meetings of the city council following receipt of a written request for review. Any decision made by the city council, while exercising its review powers under this article, shall be in writing and shall state specific reasons for the decision.
(Ord. No. 94-10, § II(D), 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Sec. 26-115. - Removal from list; sufficient causes enumerated.
Any installer or funeral director may be removed from the approved list by the city clerk, or council designee, for cause, provided the city clerk shall provide notice of such action and the reason by certified mail to the last known address of such party, and further provided that the party so removed from the list shall have a right to have the decision of the city clerk reviewed by application in writing delivered to the city council within ten days of receipt of the notice of removal or within 15 days of the mailing of the notice by certified mail, whichever shall first occur. The city council will review the decision of the city clerk and give its final decision within the next two regular meetings of the city council following the receipt of written application for review. Any of the following shall be sufficient cause for removal from the approved list:
(1)
Failure to satisfy all financial accounts with the city relating to monument installation prior to doing work at a grave site or mausoleum space;
(2)
Failure to abide by any state law or local rule or regulation the violation of which results in a detriment to the city;
(3)
Failure to maintain current proof of financial responsibility and a certificate of insurance as required by this article;
(4)
Any act by any principal, agent or employee of any installer or funeral director in or around any cemetery or mausoleum of the city which shall have an unreasonably derogatory affect upon the peace, dignity or aesthetic appeal of same; or
(5)
Any other reason that the city council decides is a sufficient cause and is fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
(Ord. No. 94-10, § II(E), 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Secs. 26-116—26-130. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - INSTALLATION PERMITS

Sec. 26-131. - Application; separate permit required for each grave or space; contents.
The city clerk, or council designee, may issue permits to any installer or funeral director currently in good standing upon proper application. A separate permit shall be required for each grave, niche, or mausoleum space. The permit shall plainly state the location of the burial or entombment space and shall grant the installer or funeral director a right of access to same.
(Ord. No. 94-10, § III(A), 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Sec. 26-132. - Applicant qualifications and status to be checked prior to issuance.
Prior to issuance of any permit, the city clerk, or council designee, shall check the records of the city to ensure that the applicant is currently upon the approved list, is currently maintaining all qualifications required, has no outstanding balance owed for any prior installation, and has paid the proper fee for the permit.
(Ord. No. 94-10, § III(B), 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Sec. 26-133. - Fee schedules.
The city council shall from time to time establish by resolution fee schedules for the issuance of permits under this article. Fee schedules shall be maintained at city hall. The city council shall be empowered to change fees at any time without notice or grace period, and any applicant for a permit must pay the fee in effect on the day the permit is actually issued.
(Ord. No. 94-10, § III(C), 12-20-1994; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
Sec. 26-134. - Period of validity; refunds.
Any permit issued under this article shall be effective for no more than 30 days after the date of issuance. If the burial or entombment space is not disturbed within such time period, the holder of the permit may apply to the city clerk for a refund. Within ten days following application for a refund, the superintendent of the city department with responsibility for the cemetery shall inspect the burial or entombment space and certify to the city clerk as to whether or not the space has been disturbed. If the space has not been disturbed and the original permit is delivered to the city clerk for cancellation, the city clerk shall be authorized to refund the permit fee, less the administrative fee established by the city council upon its fee schedule. If the party to whom the permit was issued owes the city any fee or account for any purpose, the city clerk will be authorized to apply that portion of the permit fee which is refunded first to payment of any fee, account, fine, interest or other charge against the party to whom the permit was issued. The balance, if any, shall be remitted to the party to whom the permit was issued within five business days after the day upon which the superintendent certifies to the city clerk that the space has not been disturbed.
(Ord. No. 94-10, § III(D), 12-20-19; Ord. No. 07(01)-2010, 7-20-2010)
