Chapter 58 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Payment of city taxes by credit card, § 2-2; subdivisions, ch. 54.
State Law reference— Taxation power of municipal and county governments, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ I.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 58-1—58-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - HOTEL-MOTEL EXCISE TAX[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted on September 15, 2020 , repealed and replaced Art. II to read as set out herein. Former Art. II, §§ 58-31—58-45, pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from Ord. No. 95-1, § § I—XIV, adopted January 17, 1995.

Sec. 58-31. - Ordinance name.
"Hotel-Motel Excise Tax Ordinance of the City of Jackson."
(Ord. of 9-15-2020 , § I)
Sec. 58-32. - Intent, purpose, and authorization to levy excise tax.
(a)
The intent of this article is to levy an excise tax on rooms, lodgings, and accommodations to provide additional funding for the promotion of tourism, conventions, and trade shows in the City of Jackson, Georgia.
(b)
The purpose of this ordinance is to enact an excise tax upon the furnishing for value to the public of any room or rooms, lodgings, or accommodations furnished by any person or the City of Jackson for operating within the special district a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, rental cabin or any other place in which rooms, lodgings, or accommodations are regularly furnished for value.
(c)
This excise tax shall be imposed under the authorization of Act 393 (SB 328) of the 2020 Regular Session of the Georgia General Assembly, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(b).
(Ord. of 9-15-2020 , § II)
Sec. 58-33. - Definitions.
The following terms, for the purposes of this ordinance, shall be defined as follows:
The City of Jackson means the territorial limits of the City of Jackson, Georgia under the governing authority of the city council and mayor.
City clerk means the duly appointed city clerk, or his/her designee.
Destination marketing organization means a private sector nonprofit organization or other private entity which is exempt from federal income tax under Section 501(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 that is supported by the tax under this article, government budget allocations, private membership, or any combination thereof and the primary responsibilities of which are to encourage travelers to visit their destinations, encourage meetings and expositions in the area, and provide visitor assistance and support as needed (O.C.G.A. §48-13-50.2(1))
Due date means the 20th day after the close of the monthly period for which tax is to be computed. (O.C.G.A. §48-13-53.2(a))
Estimated tax liability means the lodging provider's prospective tax liability based upon the average monthly tax remittance in the prior fiscal year, as adjusted for change in tax rate or substantial change in circumstances due to damage to the hotel. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-53.2(b))
Finance director means the duly appointed administrator of finances for the City of Jackson, Georgia.
Folio means the primary documentation produced by a hotel or other facility that demonstrates interaction between the operator and the occupant, and which, at a minimum, reflects the name and address given by the occupant, the date(s) of occupancy, the amount of rent charged for each date together with the amounts of applicable excise tax(es) and the method(s) of payment.
Guestroom means accommodations occupied, or intended, arranged, or designated for transient occupancy of not more than 30 continuous days (O.C.G.A. §48-13-51(h)(4)), by one or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use.
Hotel means includes any hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, campground, or any other place in which rooms, lodgings, or accommodations are regularly furnished for value and shall apply to the furnishing for value of any room, lodging, or accommodation. (O.C.G.A. §48-13-51(a)(1)(B))
Innkeeper/lodging provider/operator means any person who is subject to taxation under this article for the furnishing for value to the public any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations. (O.C.G.A. §48-13-50.2(2))
Monthly period means any calendar month of any year.
Occupancy means this use or possession, or the right to use or possession, of any room or apartment in a hotel or motel, or the right to use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use the possession of the room or apartment.
Occupant means any person (or persons utilizing as a single unit) who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right to use or possess, any room or hotel or motel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license, agreement or otherwise.
Permanent resident means any occupant who as of a given date shall be occupied, or has or shall have the right of occupancy, of any guest room in a hotel for more than 30 consecutive days.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, nonprofit corporation or cooperative nonprofit membership, estate, trust, business, trust receiver, trustee, syndicate, business entity, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, to include the plural as well as the singular number, excepting, however, the United States of America, the State of Georgia, and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the governing authority of the City of Jackson, is without power to impose a tax herein provided.
Private sector non-profit organization means a chamber of commerce, a convention and visitors bureau, a regional travel association, or any other private group organized for similar purposes which is exempt from federal income tax under Section 501(C)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; provided, however, that a county or municipality which has prior to April 1, 1990 contracted for a required expenditure under this Code section with a private group which is exempt from federal income tax under provisions of Section 502(c) of the Internal Revenue Code other than Section 501(c)(6) may continue to contract for required expenditures which such a private group. (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.2(3))
Promoting tourism, conventions, and trade shows means planning, conducting, or participating in programs of information and publicity designed to attract or advertise tourism, conventions, or trade shows. (O.C.G.A. 48-13-50.2(4))
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the lodging provider to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
State authority means any authority created by state law which serves a state-wide function, including, but not limited to, the Georgia Agricultural Exposition Authority, Georgia Aviation Authority, Georgia Building Authority, Georgia Development Authority, Georgia Environmental Finance Authority, Jekyll Island Authority, Lake Allatoona Preservation Authority, Georgia Medical Center Authority, Georgia Ports Authority, Georgia Regional Transportation Authority, State Road and Tollway Authority, Sports Hall of Fame Authority, Georgia Technology Authority, and Georgia World Congress Center Authority, but shall not mean an authority created for support of a local government or a local purpose or function and shall not include authorities such as area planning and development commissions and any organizational entities they may create, regional commissions and any organization entitles they may create, or local water and sewer authorities. (O.C.G.A. § 48.13.50.2(5))
Tax means the excise tax of eight percent on occupants imposed by this ordinance, as provided for by O.C.G.A. § 48.13.51(b).
Tax administrator means the individual appointed by the governing body of the City of Jackson; or the individual of any office of the City of Jackson government which many in the future be designated as the administrative entity to collect, administer, and complete required annual reporting of the tax.
Tourism product development means the expenditure of funds for the creation or expansion of physical attractions which are available and open to the public and which improve destination appeal to visitors, support visitors' experience, and are used by visitors. Such expenditures may include capital costs and operating expenses. Tourism product development may include: (A) Lodging for the public for no longer than 30 consecutive days to the same customer; (B) Overnight or short-term sites for recreational vehicles, trailers, campers, or tents; (C) Meeting, convention, exhibit, and public assembly facilities; (D) Sports stadiums, arenas, and complexes; (E) Golf courses associated with a resort development that are open to the general public on a contract or fee basis; (F) Racing facilities, including dragstrips, motorcycle racetracks, and auto or stock car racetracks or speedways; (G) Amusement centers, amusement parks, theme parks, or amusement piers; (H) Hunting preserves, trapping preserves, or fishing preserves or lakes; (I) Visitor information and welcome centers; (J) Wayfinding signage; (K) Permanent, nonmigrating carnivals or fairs; (L) Airplanes, helicopters, buses, vans, or boats for excursions or sightseeing; (M) Boat rentals, boat party fishing services, rowboat or canoe rentals, horse shows, natural wonder attractions, picnic grounds, river-rafting service, scenic railroads for amusement, aerial tramways, rodeos, water slides, or wave pools; (N) Museums, planetariums, art galleries, botanical gardens, aquariums, or zoological gardens; (O) Parks, trails, and other recreational facilities; or (P)Performing arts facilities. (O.C.G.A. § 48.13.50.2(6))
(Ord. of 8-4-2020 , § III)
Sec. 58-34. - Tax rate.
(a)
There is hereby set and levied on the occupant of a guest room of any hotel/motel/cabin/residence/lodge located within the special district a tax in the amount of eight percent of the gross rent for such occupancy.
(Ord. of 9-15-2020 , § IV)
Sec. 58-35. - Effective date.
This article shall take effect on the 15th day of September, 2020.
(Ord. of 9-15-2020 , § V)
Sec. 58-36. - Exemptions.
(a)
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48.13.51(h), the tax imposed by this ordinance shall not apply to (1) Charges made for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided to any persons who certify that they are staying in such room, lodging, or accommodation as a result of the destruction of their home or residence by fire or other casualty; (2) The use of meeting rooms and other such facilities or any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided without charge; (3) Any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations furnished for a period of one or more days for use by Georgia state or local governmental officials or employees when traveling on official business. Notwithstanding the availability of any other means of identifying the persons as a state or local government official or employee, whenever a person pays for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations with a state or local government credit or debit card, such rooms, lodgings, or accommodations shall be deemed to have been furnished for use by a Georgia state or local government official or employee traveling on official business for purposes of the exemption provided by this paragraph. For purpose of the exemption provided under this paragraph, a local government official or employee shall include officials or employees of counties, municipalities, consolidated governments, or county or independent school districts; or (4) Charges made for continuous use of any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations after the first 30 days of continuous occupancy. (O.C.G.A. § 48.13.51(h))
(Ord. of 9-15-2020 , § VI)
Sec. 58-37. - Use of revenue.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(b)(5)(A), an amount equal to not less than 50 percent of the total amount of taxes collected that exceed the amount of taxes that would be collected at the rate of five percent shall be expended for promoting tourism, conventions, and trade shows by the destination marketing organization, as defined in section 58-33 of this article, designated by the governing body of the City of Jackson; and
(b)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48.13.51(b)(5)(B), the remaining amount of taxes collected that exceed the amount of taxes that would be collected at the rate of five percent which are not otherwise expended under section 58-37(a) of this article shall be expended for tourism product development as defined in section 58-33 of this article; and
(c)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. §48.13.51(a)(3), the amount of taxes that would be collected at the rate of five percent, as referenced in section 58-37(a) and (b) of this article, and amount equal to the amount by which the total taxes collected under this Code section exceed the taxes which would be collected at a rate of three percent for the purpose of: (A) Promoting tourism, conventions, and trade shows; (B) supporting a facility owned nor operated by a state authority for convention and trade show purposes or any other similar or related purposes; (C) supporting a facility owned or operated by a local government or local authority for convention and trade show purposes or any other similar or related purposes, if a written agreement to provide such support was in effect on January 1, 1987, and if such facility is substantially completed and in operating prior to July 1, 1987; (D) supporting a facility owned or operated by a local government or local authority for convention and trade show purposes or any other similar or related purposes if construction of such facility is funded or was funded prior to July 1, 1990, in whole or in part by a grant of state funds; (E) supporting a facility owned by a local government or local authority for convention and trade show purposes and any other similar or related purposes if construction of such facility is substantially funded or was substantially funded on or after February 28, 1985, by a special county one percent sales and use tax authorized by Article 3 of Chapter 8 of this title, as amended and if such facility was substantially completed and in operating prior to December 31, 1993; or (F) for some combination of such purposes. Amounts so expended shall be expended only through a contract or contracts with the state, a department of state government, a state authority, a convention and visitors bureau authority created by local Act of the General Assembly for a municipality, or a private sector nonprofit organization, or through a contract or contracts with some combination of such entities, except that amounts expended for purposes (C) and (D) may be so expended in any otherwise lawful manner.
(Ord. of 9-15-2020 , § VII)
