ARTICLE XII. - COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS, CAMPGROUNDS AND RENTAL CABINS

12.1 - Commercial Recreational Vehicle Parks.
Any recreational vehicle park in Troup County will require zoning to that district. The CRVP zoning district shall encompass CRV parks, campgrounds and rental cabins. CRV parks are for the convenience of tourists, transient visitors to Troup County and are not intended to provide permanent housing for citizens of the county. Therefore, no RV shall be set up at any residence for occupancy on a permanent basis. Camp sites may be a part of a commercial recreational vehicle park or a campground may be developed separate from a CRV park. The camp sites and campground as a whole shall adhere to the same standards as those for a CRV park.
12.2 - Recreational Vehicles.
Recreational vehicles are allowed as a temporary residence. They shall be placed in a recreational vehicle park only and residents that own recreational vehicles shall not be allowed to rent RV's on property zoned for single-family residences. RV's may be located on site of single-family residences in an enclosed area or garage or carport and hooked to electricity for recharging batteries. RV's shall not be located in Manufactured Home Parks and rented as a permanent residence.
12.3 - Site Plan Requirement.
Any proposed CRV Park shall submit to the board of zoning appeals/planning commission for approval a site plan that shall conform to the regulations set forth in Article [section] 11.3-1. In addition the following standards are required.
12.4 - Land Disturbance Permit.
A permit shall be required prior to any grading, installation of facilities or advertising of proposed park. Land disturbance permits may be obtained from the Troup County Planning and Zoning office during normal business hours.
12.5 - Development Standards.
All RV Parks located in unincorporated Troup County shall conform to the following development standards.
12.6 - Lot Area.
Each individual space for use by a RV shall be 1,000 square feet. The lot area shall be graded and gravel inserted and surrounded on three sides by landscape timbers or other similar material, to ensure space provided for the RV to park is level and capable of sedimentation and erosion control. The maximum density for RV parks shall not exceed 20 units per acre.
12.7 - Minimum Lot Size.
For the purpose of the development of a CRV Park the minimum lot size shall be ten acres. The road frontage required for CRV parks, campgrounds or cabins is 300 feet.
12.8 - Shower Facilities.
Any CRV Park shall provide one shower and restroom facilities for every six rental spaces or every six campsites. This does not apply to cabins as each cabin should contain a minimum of one bathroom.
12.9 - Electrical.
Each individual space shall provide electrical hookup for the RV in accordance with current National Electrical Code as amended.
12.10 - Water.
Each individual space shall provide a water source for the RV to fill water storage tanks. Cabins shall be supplied with running water from an individual well, community water system or public water system.
12.11 - Individual Spaces.
Individual space in the park shall include a concrete picnic table, benches and a charcoal grill constructed of wrought iron or other similar material, permanently attached to a concrete pad.
12.12 - Streets.
Streets that provide access to the individual spaces shall be constructed to Troup County standards and shall be curb and gutter. The street system shall be maintained by park owner and is not the responsibility of Troup County. Each space shall be assigned and display an address for emergency response purposes. Street names and address assignment and display shall comply with the Troup County Comprehensive Address Assignment and Display Guide.
12.13 - Solid Waste.
Each CRV Park, campsite or cabin shall be provided with a sanitary method of solid waste collection and disposal. Collection facilities shall be either in the form of bulk containers (dumpsters) of sufficient size and adequately distributed throughout the park to meet the needs of the park residents, or at least two individually covered refuse containers having a capacity of 30 gallons or more for each occupied lot. Bulk containers shall be enclosed with a minimum of four feet high chain link fence and placed upon a concrete pad, extending at least 18 inches around each container perimeter. If individual containers are utilized, stands must be provided to hold the refuse containers upright. Collection services shall be provided at least once weekly and conveyed to the nearest approved sanitary landfill. Refuse areas shall be maintained in a clean, sanitary manner so as not to attract, harbor or breed insects, rodents or any manner of vermin or pest.
12.14 - Frontage.
The CRV park, campsite or cabin shall position individual spaces lots so the parcel has reverse frontage to U.S., State, county or local roads, with street system constructed and maintained by park owner. Interior street system for park shall be constructed to county standards and approved by the county engineer.
12.15 - Waste Water Treatment Facility.
All CRV parks shall construct a minimum of one wastewater treatment disposal system approved by the Troup County Health Department or the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division. Each park shall have an approved on site waste water treatment system, either individual septic tanks, or onsite decentralized system approved in compliance with Troup County standards.
12.16 - Service Buildings.
Accessory structures and community service facilities are hereby permitted for the convenience and well being of park guests. Such structures shall conform to the Georgia State Building Codes adopted by Troup County, as amended, and may include, but are not limited to the following uses:
Park management offices and storage;
Community postal facilities;
Indoor community recreation areas;
Other similar uses that may be necessary to meet the needs of guests as listed in the permitted use table for non-residential districts table 7.4.
Any structure or use of a commercial nature shall be submitted with the site plan at the time of rezoning. If the property is already zoned for CRV park then the site plan approval by the board of zoning appeals/planning commission is required prior to any issuance of a land disturbance permit.
12.17 - Rental Cabins.
Each cabin area that is dependent on individual septic systems shall be approved by the Troup County Health Department for lot size. The size of the lot shall be the minimum required by the soil tests conducted by the health department, but in no case shall be less than 10,000 square feet.
12.18 -
Cabins shall be separated from each other by not less than 20 feet.
12.19 -
Cabin rentals shall comply in all buffer requirements as set forth in this section for CRV parks.
12.20 -
Cabin rentals shall comply with all development standards as set forth in this section for CRV parks.
12.21 -
Any area where cabins are built for rental on a temporary basis shall comply with the appropriate development standards as applicable in this section for CRV parks.
