Chapter 78 - UTILITIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; buildings, construction and related activities, ch. 18; environment, ch. 34; floods, ch. 38; historical preservation, ch. 42; manufactured homes, ch. 46; connecting utilities, § 46-35; occupational licenses, taxes and regulations, ch. 50; planning, ch. 58; roads and streets, ch. 66; utility facility encroachments and road crossings, § 66-71 et seq.; solid waste disposal, ch. 70; zoning, app. A; subdivisions, app. C.
State Law reference— Water Resources Center, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-1 et seq.; adoption of ordinances, rules and regulations relating to payment for street improvements and construction of water, gas and sewer connections, payment of costs of connections, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-7; authority to provide stormwater, sewage collection and disposal systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(6).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 78-1—78-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WATER SYSTEM EXPANSION

Sec. 78-31. - Definitions.
The definitions of words, terms and phrases used in this article shall be as interpreted in O.C.G.A. §§ 12-5-170—12-5-193 and chapter 391-3-5 "Rules for Safe Drinking Water" or the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Appropriate authority means persons designated by the board of commissioners.
Developer means any person, including any agent or construction contractor, who wishes to construct new water lines in the unincorporated areas of the county.
Document means this article, and the county water expansion map as prepared by Tribble & Richardson, Inc., and any subsequent amendments thereof.
Drinking water means water supplied for domestic use or human consumption, meeting the maximum contaminant levels established by the state.
EPD means the state environmental protection division, department of natural resources.
Government owned public water system means the system which provides piped water to the public for human consumption. Such term includes any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facility, located in the unincorporated areas of the county and owned by and authorized by governmental agencies.
Groundwater means water obtained from wells and used as a source of water supply.
Operation, maintenance and replacement costs means the costs of operations and maintenance, to keep the water supply treatment works and distribution system in good repair and at design specifications. This includes labor, supplies, utilities, chemicals, contractual services and general expenses, including installation and/or repair of equipment, accessories or appurtenances necessary during the service life of the system.
Person means as defined in section 1-4 of this Code, specifically including any individual, corporation, company, association, partnership, county, municipality, state agency or other entity.
Privately owned public water system means any system which provides piped water to the public for human consumption. Such term includes any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facility serving 15 or more units being owned and operated by an entity other than an authorized governmental agency.
Professional engineer means a person registered to practice professional engineering in the state in accordance with the provisions of the act governing the practice of professional engineering in the state.
Service line means a water line extending from a water main to the property line of premises to be served.
Source of water supply means the waters of the state from which raw water is taken into a public water system to be treated and distributed.
Spring means a surface water where water naturally issues forth for the first time from rock or soil onto the land or into a body of water.
Standard methods means the publication "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Sewage," as published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
Supplier of water or supplier means any person who owns or operates a public water system.
Surface waters means all rivers, streams, branches, creeks, ponds, tributary streams and drainage basins, natural lakes, and artificial reservoirs or impoundments.
Water main means a common water line, owned and/or controlled by an authorized agency, owned by private parties, or by the public.
Water system means water source, treatment works, distribution system and related appurtenances.
Well means any excavation that is cored, bored, drilled, jetted, dug, or otherwise constructed for the purpose of locating, testing, or withdrawing groundwater.
(Code 1987, § 7-60)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-4.
Sec. 78-32. - Applicability of article provisions.
This article shall apply to the development of all water systems constructed in unincorporated areas within the boundaries of the county.
(Code 1987, § 7-61)
Sec. 78-33. - Withholding of construction or building permit until compliance with article provisions effected.
The county may withhold the issuance of any construction or building permit and/or occupancy or use permit in any subdivision, development or improvement to which this article applies, until there is compliance with the regulations and specifications contained in this article.
(Code 1987, § 7-62)
Sec. 78-34. - Water review board.
(a)
Established. The water review board is hereby established.
(b)
Composition; terms. The water review board shall consist of five members. Initially, one member shall be appointed for a term of one year, a second member shall be appointed for a term of two years, a third member shall be appointed for a term of three years, a fourth member shall be appointed for a term of four years, and a fifth member shall be appointed for a term of five years. The term of each member shall end on June 30 of his expiration year. The five members shall elect one of their number to serve as chairman of the water review board.
(c)
Authority; responsibilities. The water review board shall have the following authority and responsibilities:
(1)
To review all applications for new and/or expansion of existing water lines and systems in the unincorporated areas of the county;
(2)
To provide to the board of commissioners recommendations for the approval of or denial of applications pertaining to water systems in the unincorporated areas of the county;
(3)
To offer any recommendations regarding matters concerning water systems, regulations, and/or finances;
(4)
To work with the various cities located within the county in the improvement of water service in the unincorporated areas of the county;
(5)
To have the authority to recommend that the board of commissioners make variances, when it is feasible or necessary, from this article; and
(6)
To work with the various county offices and state agencies to ensure an adequate and improved water system for the citizens of the county.
(d)
Reception of construction plans and specifications. The water review board shall be the authorized officer of the county to receive construction plans and specifications as contemplated and required by section 78-37.
(Code 1987, § 7-63)
Sec. 78-35. - Statement of intent and purpose of article.
(a)
It is the intent of the board of commissioners to provide the citizens of the unincorporated county areas with a sufficient water supply for the purpose of their health, safety, welfare and convenience. It is also the intent of the board of commissioners that water expansion progress in an orderly fashion for the purpose of providing the most water at the least cost. Consideration for service will be based on the need for water and the feasibility of providing service.
(b)
It is the purpose of this article to ensure that all public and private water systems, constructed in the unincorporated areas of the county, satisfy all existing and future county, state and federal regulations. Both public and privately owned water systems in the unincorporated areas of the county shall be constructed only after the plans have been approved as outlined in this article and a construction permit has been granted. Only systems approved and constructed in accordance with this article will be allowed to operate in the county.
(Code 1987, § 7-64)
Sec. 78-36. - General design standards.
General design requirements for both government owned and privately owned public water systems are set out herein. The county intends to maintain a class 6 fire insurance rating, and will, therefore, require an average of 500 gpm at a residual pressure of 20 psi at all fire hydrants. Where named products and materials are offered in this article, substitute products and materials may be used, but only with the approval of the county manager or the manager's authorized designated representative.
(1)
The developer shall be required to install an adequate water supply system to, and with the area to be developed including service lines to each lot as shown, of the development.
(2)
Water mains proposed along existing frontage roads or proposed main thoroughfares shall be sized consistent with the county water expansion map, designated as the master map dated 1987.
(3)
All water mains shall be six inches in size or larger, except for short (500 feet or less), dead-end or connecting street in residential areas.
(4)
Dead-end lines shall be minimized by looping of all mains when possible.
(5)
Minimum horizontal distances between water and sewer lines shall be ten feet. The distances between water and sewer lines, when crossed, shall be 18 inches with the water line above the sewer line. Minimum horizontal and vertical distances between water lines and other underground utilities or structures shall be two feet.
(6)
Design for all creek crossings shall be approved by an authorized representative of the county.
(7)
All crossings of paved streets shall be by the bore method, unless otherwise approved prior to installation. All pipe six inches and larger in diameter shall require casing to be carried with the bore. A county street may be open cut, or bored without casing, only after written permission has been received from the designer. All pipe placed in open cut trenches or uncased bores under paved streets shall be ductile iron. All pipe shall have a minimum cover of four feet from finish grade of street or road.
(8)
All crossings of driveways shall be by means of uncased bore or open cut as may be determined by the county representative. Where open cut method is required, existing concrete and asphalt driveways shall be sawed and the debris removed prior to trenching. When pipe installation is complete, the driveway shall be backfilled, tamped, and damaged areas replaced with material consistent with the driveway as soon as possible.
(9)
Tees, crosses, valves and other necessary fittings shall be provided at all major intersections and at all points required by the water review board to provide for future expansion.
(10)
Magnetic detection tape shall be placed directly over all nonmetal pipe at a maximum depth of two feet from finished grade.
(11)
Fire hydrants serving residential areas shall be located at intervals not to exceed 1,000 linear feet along the street right-of-way.
(12)
Generally, fire hydrants serving commercial, industrial, or multifamily residential areas shall be located at intervals not to exceed 500 linear feet along the street right-of-way.
(13)
All fire hydrants shall be located on the right-of-way and shall have a valve installed between the main and the fire hydrant.
(14)
All fire service lines and connections with private fire hydrants, hand hose connections, sprinkler heads, and any supply other than domestic lines shall have installed an underwriter approved double detector check valve.
(15)
Shutoff valves shall be installed along the main line at intervals not greater than 2,000 feet.
(16)
Shutoff valves shall be installed on all branch lines as well as on each side of the branch as close to the intersection as possible.
(17)
Flush valves are required on dead-end water mains that do not have a fire hydrant at the end.
(18)
Each underground valve shall include a valve box placed vertically to allow operation of the valve. Valve boxes not located in roadways shall have a precast concrete collar placed level around the top for protection.
(19)
Service lines shall be provided to all residential lot property lines. Lines shall be three-fourths-inch minimum diameter and furnished with meter box, curb and corporation stops.
(20)
Water services for commercial, industrial, or multifamily residential shall be adequate to provide for the specific needs of the installation, including adequate fire protection.
(21)
Location of service laterals shall be indicated precisely on drawings. Services shall extend from the water main to the property line of each lot. Each line shall have a meter stop placed on its end and stubbed into a meter box set by the developer.
(Code 1987, § 7-65)
Sec. 78-37. - Submittal and approval standards.
(a)
It is the purpose of the standards of this section to establish the minimum requirements for the information to be submitted to and approved by the board of commissioners or their designee.
(b)
The developer shall submit to the authorized officer of the county two sets of construction plans and specifications for approval. Approval of the plans and specifications may be given by the appropriate authority. Work shall not begin until all approvals regarding materials, methods of construction, environmental impact, railroad permits, department of transportation permits and other required approvals are received from the respective approving agencies.
(c)
The information shall be submitted to the board of commissioners or their designee for approval at least 60 days prior to the start of construction. The information submitted with the plans shall include the following in addition to the construction plans and specifications:
(1)
Number of customers to be served.
(2)
Location and depth of water mains.
(3)
Tap-on fees to be charged.
(Code 1987, § 7-66)
Sec. 78-38. - Paying cost of main relocation for road work.
The owner of any water system located on road rights-of-way of the county shall pay all cost of relocation of any water mains and appurtenances within the public rights-of-way which is necessary for roadway improvements.
(Code 1987, § 7-67)
Sec. 78-39. - Construction standards.
The standards to be used in the design, material, implementation, etc., of any water system located in the unincorporated area of the county shall meet or exceed the standards for design, material implementation, etc., then in effect for the City of LaGrange. All questions regarding such matters shall be submitted to the water review board whose determination shall be final.
