ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Necessity of regulations.
In accordance with the laws of the state, it is necessary and expedient for the county to exercise its police powers to establish and promulgate certain standards and regulations in regard to the sale, tax and control of packaged malt beverages and/or wine, as well as the sale for consumption on the premises of malt beverages and/or wine, in the unincorporated areas of the county. The business of manufacturing, distributing, selling, handling, and otherwise dealing in or possessing malt beverages and/or wine, as well as the business of selling malt beverages and/or wine for consumption on the premises, is declared to be a privilege, not a right, and such privilege shall not be exercised in the county except as licensed under the terms of this chapter. This chapter does not permit the sale of distilled spirits by the drink or otherwise for consumption on the premises. Such sale of distilled spirits by the drink or otherwise for consumption on the premises is expressly prohibited. Except as otherwise specifically provided for herein, this chapter does not permit the sale of any alcoholic beverages for consumption off the premises of the licensee. Licensing shall be solely for the unincorporated areas of the county.
( Ord. No. 2014-02 , § I(Exh. A), 11-5-2013)
Sec. 6-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever means processed.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, liquors, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages, wine, or fortified wine.
Authorized catered function means a function in the unincorporated portions of the county for which an event permit has been issued by the county.
Bed and breakfast home means a residential structure occupied as principal residence by the owner(s) of record wherein lodging or lodging and breakfast only is provided to guests for compensation.
Bed and breakfast inn means a building or dwelling unit, not necessarily owner-occupied, that offers transient lodging accommodations and breakfast for four or more guest rooms for compensation provided.
Charitable organization means a nonprofit organization created for charitable purposes, which has received and maintained approval from the United States Internal Revenue Service as a bona fide section 501(c)(3) organization.
Church means a building where persons regularly assemble for religious worship intended primarily for purposes connected with such worship.
Distilled spirits means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume including, but not limited to, all fortified wines.
Farm winery means a winery which makes at least 40 percent of its annual production from agricultural produce grown in the state and:
(1)
Is located on premises, a where minimum of 20 percent is used for agricultural purposes, including the cultivation of grapes, berries, or fruits to be utilized in the manufacture or production of wine by the winery; or
(2)
Is owned and operated by persons who are engaged in the production of 20 percent of the agricultural produce used in its annual production.
Food caterer means any person who prepares food for consumption off the premises, possesses a valid occupational tax certificate, and meets all Troup County Environmental Health regulations.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "fortified wine" includes, but is not limited to, the term "brandy."
Gallon and wine gallon means a United States gallon of liquid measure equivalent to the volume of 231 cubic inches or the nearest equivalent metric measurement.
Golf course means a tract of land publicly or privately owned that is a minimum of two acres designed and laid out for playing the game of golf, and improved with tees, greens, fairways, hazards, practicing and playing and driving range and may include a club house with dressing rooms, dining facilities, professional shop and meeting space.
Host means the person who organizes the catered event and who will be responsible, along with the licensed alcohol beverage caterer, for compliance with the rules set forth in this chapter. In the event that the host is an organization rather than an individual, the organization will designate one individual who will be the host for the purposes of this chapter.
Importer means any person who imports an alcoholic beverage into this state from a foreign country and sells the alcoholic beverage to another importer, broker, or wholesaler and who maintains a stock of the alcoholic beverage.
License means the authorization by the board of commissioners to engage in the retail sale of malt beverages and/or wine, either in unbroken packages not for consumption on the licensed premises (also referred to hereinafter as a "package license") or for consumption only on the licensed premises (also referred to hereinafter as a "pouring license").
Licensed alcoholic beverage caterer means any retail dealer who has been licensed by the state to sell alcoholic beverages pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 3, ch. 4, art. 2, O.C.G.A. ch. 5, art. 2 , or O.C.G.A. ch. 6, art. 2.
Licensed location means the place where a licensed alcoholic beverage caterer maintains its principal place of business within the county.
Licensee means any person who has been issued a license by the board of commissioners to engage in the retail sale of malt beverages and/or wine in unbroken packages not for consumption on the licensed premises (also referred to hereinafter as a "package licensee") or for consumption only on the licensed premises and not for resale (also referred to hereinafter as a "pouring licensee").
Lounge means a separate room where malt beverages and/or wine are served by the drink which is either connected with or part of a restaurant (as defined herein) and operated in conjunction therewith and under the same management as the restaurant operations. Lounges shall not be permitted.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Manufacturer means any maker, producer, or bottler of an alcoholic beverage. Manufacturer also means; in the case of malt beverage, any brewer; in the case of wine, any wine maker.
Meal means the delivery and service of food in individual portions or by means of a self-service buffet to individual patrons of a place of business. The service of food to a patron shall not constitute a meal if payment for same is combined with payment of a cover charge or entrance fee or if payment for same is in fact merely ancillary to the service of malt beverages and wine. All meals must be prepared in the place of business for which the license is issued.
Minor means any person under the age of 21 years, or as defined in O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23 or by other state laws.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel or other original consumer container.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, cooperative, nonprofit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary, or other entity, group or combination acting as a unit, body politic, or political subdivision, whether public, private, or quasi-public.
Place of business means the premises described in the license issued pursuant to this chapter. For the purposes of this chapter, a "place of business" shall consist of one physical building and shall not include any adjacent structures that are not physically attached to the premises by heated and cooled space. Two or more separate, detached structures may not be combined to meet the requirements of this chapter. Outdoor patios or decks which are completely enclosed by a fence or wall and are accessible only through an enclosed building shall be considered as a part of a place of business.
Premises means the location where the licensee is authorized to sell malt beverages and/or wine.
Private club means a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state, actively in operation within the county at least one year immediately prior to the application for a license hereunder, having at least 100 members regularly paying monthly, quarterly or semiannual dues, organized and operated exclusively for pleasure, recreation and other nonprofit purposes, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any shareholder or member, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or space therein for the reasonable use of its members with suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment and maintaining and using a sufficient number of employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals at least five days a week for its members and guests. Such club shall also be an organization which has received and has maintained approval from the United States Internal Revenue Service as a bona fide section 501(c)(3) organization. The building of such club shall be air-conditioned. To qualify as a private club under this chapter, no member or officer, agent or employee of the club may be paid, or directly or indirectly receive, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages by the club to its members or guests beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed by its members at any annual meeting or by its governing board out of the general revenue of the club. No license shall be issued to any location or maintained at any location that does not have adequate on-premises parking as required by the then applicable parking regulations of the board of commissioners.
Restaurant means any public or private place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the general public as a place where meals are served and where meals are actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations. Such place shall be air-conditioned and contain adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and seating capacity for at least 50 people, and have employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its patrons. At least two distinct and separate meals per day shall be served at least five days a week, with the exception of holidays, vacations and periods of redecorating or renovation. The serving of such meals and food shall be the principal business conducted, with the serving of malt beverages and/or wine to be consumed on the premises as only incidental thereto.
Retailer or retail dealer means, except as to distilled spirits, any person who sells alcoholic beverages, either in unbroken packages or for consumption on the premises, at retail only to consumers and not for resale. With respect to distilled spirits, the term means any person who sells distilled spirits in unbroken packages at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
School means a building, publicly or privately owned, which is used for teaching or giving instruction in any subject to pupils of the school. The term "school" shall not mean a private residential dwelling in which a child receives home schooling from a parent or other person.
Tasting room means an outlet for the promotion of a farm winery's wine manufacturer by providing samples of such wine or malt beverage to the public and for the sale of such wine or malt beverage at retail for consumption on the premises and for sale in closed packages for consumption off the premises. Samples of wine or malt beverage can be given complimentary or for a fee.
Wholesaler means any person who sells malt beverages and/or wine to other wholesale or retail dealers, or licensees.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this chapter.
( Ord. No. 2014-02 , § I(Exh. A), 11-5-2013)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
Sec. 6-3. - Incorporation of federal and state law and regulations.
The federal and state statutory laws and/or regulations relating to the sale and/or distribution of alcoholic beverages within the state and the United States of America are hereby incorporated herein and made a part of this chapter as if fully set out herein.
( Ord. No. 2014-02 , § I(Exh. A), 11-5-2013)
Sec. 6-4. - Sale on election days.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this chapter, the sale of alcoholic beverages on local election days is hereby authorized and permitted so long as such sales are in compliance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20.
( Ord. No. 2014-02 , § I(Exh. A), 11-5-2013)
Secs. 6-5—6-25. - Reserved.
