ARTICLE 5. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 5-1. - Application.
For the purposes of this ordinance, certain terms, words or phrases used herein shall be defined, and requirements, restrictions or limitations shall be applied as defined in this ordinance.
Sec. 5-2. - General.
A.
The following words, or groups of words, shall have certain meanings as indicated below when used in this ordinance, except as clearly indicated by context or stated intent.
1.
Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the singular include the plural and words in the plural include the singular.
2.
The word building includes the word "structure", and includes the words "intended, designed or arranged to be used or occupied".
3.
The word land includes the words "water, marsh, or other wetland".
4.
The word lot includes the words "plot" or "parcel".
5.
The word map or zoning map means the "Official Map of the City of Pine Lake, Georgia".
6.
The word shall, the word will, and the word must is always mandatory.
7.
The word person includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust company or corporation as well as an individual.
8.
The word used or occupied, as applied to any land or building, shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged or designated to be used or occupied".
Sec. 5-3. - Definitions.
Except as specifically defined herein, all words used in this ordinance have their customary dictionary definitions. For the purpose of this ordinance, certain words or terms used herein are defined as follows:
Accessory building: A subordinate building, such as a garage or workshop, the use of which is incidental to that of the principal building on the same lot.
Accessory dwelling: A secondary dwelling unit located on the same lot as the principal dwelling unit. An accessory dwelling unit must be one of the following dwelling types:
a.
In-home accessory dwelling: Located within a principal single-family dwelling, including a unit above an attached garage.
b.
Garage accessory dwelling: Located above a detached garage.
c.
Outbuilding accessory dwelling: Located in an accessory building that is not a garage.
Accessory structure: A structure that is subordinate to the principal dwelling and accessory buildings, such as outdoor cooking facilities, patios, gazebos, arbors, fireplaces, trash receptacle enclosures and other such accessory structures, as opposed to accessory buildings that are enclosed by building walls and a roof for the protection of persons and property from the elements.
Accessory use: A use customarily incidental and subordinated to the principal use of a building and located on the same lot with such principal use of a building.
Alley: A private or public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property, located along the rear or side yard of such property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
Assisted living facilities: A facility licensed by the State for the residency of elderly and/or disabled persons in which individual assistance or supervision is provided to residents with medication, and with essential activities of daily living such as eating, bathing, grooming, dressing and toileting. See also: Personal care home
Auto parts and accessory store: A store that sells new automobile parts, tires and accessories. Minor parts installation may occur only in service bays where such are included within the store.
Bar: An eating or drinking establishment where sales of alcoholic beverages consumed on-premises are more than 25 percent of the total income derived from such business. See eating and drinking establishments.
Basement: That portion of a building that is partly or completely below grade and has a height of at least six and one-half feet.
Block: A parcel of land whose perimeter is bounded on all sides by street rights-of-way without an intervening street, not including alleys.
Block face: A portion of a block perimeter that is located between two intersecting streets.
Building: Any structure with a roof, permanently attached to the ground or set upon permanent footings, and intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels.
Building facade: The exterior wall of a building, not including any roof area, and not including attached chimneys, eaves or other protruding features that are permitted to extend into required yard setbacks in the district in which the building facade is located.
Building height: See Height.
Building line: Within R districts, a line establishing the minimum allowable distance between the building street facade and the nearest street curb.
Building, principal: A building in which is conducted the main or principal use of the lot on which the building is situated.
Building street facade: (Also see Street facade) The exterior wall of a building that faces the street, not including any roof area; and not including attached chimneys, eaves, porches, stoops and steps or other protruding features that are permitted, in certain areas, to extend into required front yard setbacks or supplemental front yards.
Build-to-line: Within the Commercial district and other districts other than R districts, a line that marks the maximum distance between the building street facade and the nearest street curb, which is established by the maximum sidewalk area width requirements for that street. The build-to-line extends along the back of the required sidewalk, adjacent to the sidewalk supplemental front yard.
Street facade requirements apply to building facades along the build-to-line. Where public or private open space is adjacent to the sidewalk area, the build-to-line shall extend around the perimeter of such open space.
Business service centers: An establishment providing services to business establishments on a fee or contract basis, including but not limited to advertising services, business equipment and furniture sales or rental, or protective services. The term includes but is not limited to an employment agency, photo copy center, commercial photography studio, or mailing service.
Car wash: An establishment for washing and cleaning of passenger vehicles, recreational vehicles, or other light duty equipment.
Centerline of street: That line surveyed and recorded as the centerline of the street, or if such centerline has not been surveyed, it shall be that line running midway between the outside curbs or ditches of such street.
Code enforcement officer: An employee of the City of Pine Lake, who is charged with issuing building code and zoning code zoning citations, and with enforcing the city's building code and zoning code requirements.
Convenience store: A retail store generally containing less than 2,500 square feet of gross floor area that is designed and stocked to sell primarily food, beverages, and other household supplies to customers. It is designed to attract a large volume of stop and go traffic.
Curb extension: An area where the sidewalk has been extended out into the street, often at an intersection to shorten the crosswalk distance, and provide for better visibility for the pedestrian. Sometimes referred to as sidewalk bulb-outs, or sidewalk extensions, curb extensions do not involve the loss of a lane but may narrow the lane or road width as a whole. Curb extensions are subject to an administrative approval.
The following applications of curb extensions, when located on a public street or a private street that functions as a public street, require mayor and council approval.
1.
Choker: A choker is two opposite curb extensions that narrow the road width. A choker that reduces the effective number of traffic lanes requires mayor and council action.
2.
Chicane: Chicanes consist of staggered curb extensions or parking areas that create a curve or horizontal shift in the traffic lanes to slow motor vehicle travel speed. Chicanes require mayor and council action.
Day care facility: (See personal care home for extended care facilities.) Day care facility includes nursery/kindergarten schools and includes facilities whose primary purpose is the care and/or training of children or adults, regardless of age, outside of their home for less than 24 hours a day. Such facility may or may not be operated for profit.
Day care facilities also include adult day care for those persons who do not require 24 hour per day institutional care, but who, because of physical and/or mental disability, are not capable of full-time independent living, and who may require daily medical supervision, nursing and other health care support, psychosocial assistance, or appropriate socialization stimuli or a combination of these.
The numbers of persons enrolled in a day care facility define the type of facility. The following are types of day care facilities.
• Family day care: Enrolls six or fewer persons.
• Group day care center: Enrolls seven through 18 persons.
• General day care: Enrolls more than 18 persons.
Day spa: A commercial establishment that employs professional, licensed therapists whose services include massage and body and facial treatments. Make-up consultation and application, manicure and pedicure services, yoga, exercise, and other classes may be provided as additional services.
Drive-through service window: An opening in the wall of a building or structure designed and intended to be used to provide for sales to and/or service to patrons who remain in their vehicles.
Dwelling, multiple family: A building designed to be occupied by three or more families living independently of each other in separate dwelling units, and cooking in their individual units.
Dwelling, single-family: A building containing only one dwelling unit designed to be occupied by not more than one family.
Dwelling, townhome: Attached single-family residential dwelling units erected in a row as part of a single building consisting of three or more dwellings on adjoining lots, where no residential unit is above or below another residential unit, and where each residential unit is separated from adjoining units by an approved fire-resistant party wall or walls extending from the basement or foundation through the roof.
Dwelling, two-family (duplex): A building containing two dwelling units and not more than two kitchens, designed to be occupied by not more than two families living independently of each other, and where neither unit is an in-home accessory dwelling.
Dwelling unit: A dwelling or portion thereof, which provides facilities for one or more persons living as a non-profit, single, housekeeping unit.
Duplex: See Dwelling, two-family.
Eating and drinking establishments: An establishment such as a restaurant, cafe, coffee shop or similar establishment, where the primary business is the sale of food and beverages offered for sale to the public for consumption at tables or counters on-premises either inside or outside the building, or where a take-out service of food and beverages for off-site consumption is provided. See bar.
Easement: An incorporeal interest in land owned and legally titled by another, permitting its limited use or enjoyment on, over, or under said land without actual occupancy.
Façade: The exterior wall of a building, not including any roof area, and not including attached chimneys, eaves or other protruding features that are permitted to extend into required yard setbacks.
Fenestration: The design and placement of windows in a building. Fenestration area is always calculated separately for each building facade, and includes glass within facade doors, but not sky lights located on a roof area.
Fence: A structure forming a physical barrier or enclosure, which is so constructed such that more than 35 per cent of the vertical surface is open to permit the transmission of light, air, and vision through such vertical surface in a horizontal plane.
Where fences are placed on a retaining wall the following shall apply:
1.
To the extent that a retaining wall extends above the grade level of a retained surface, that additional height shall be counted towards the allowed height of any fence placed upon a retaining wall.
2.
The portion of a retaining wall extending above grade shall be including in calculating the maximum allowed vertical closed surface of any fence placed upon such retaining wall.
Fitness center: A facility designed for the major purpose of physical fitness or weight reduction which includes, but is not limited to, such equipment as weight resistance machines, cardiovascular equipment, whirlpools, saunas, showers, and lockers. Personal trainers may be available in some facilities for clients.
Floodplain: That area within the intermediate regional flood contour elevations subject to periodic flooding as designated by the DeKalb County Roads and Bridges Director based upon the U.S. Corps of Engineers' Floodplain Information Reports and other federal, state or county hydraulic studies.
Family: One or more persons occupying a single dwelling or lodging unit, provided that, unless all members are related by blood, marriage, civil union or adoption, no such family shall contain over four persons, with the following exceptions.
• In a single-family and duplex dwelling unit, a maximum of two rooms that do not contain independent kitchen facilities may be occupied by a total of two or less roomers per room, who may also board with the family who may be compensated for accommodating the roomer, for any period, including daily, weekly or monthly periods.
• Accessory dwellings, as permitted under R Districts and other districts, are considered a separate dwelling, which are permitted to house no more than three persons unrelated by blood, marriage, civil union or adoption; and may not house boarders in addition to the family.
• Group homes meeting the definition of this ordinance are considered a "family"
• The term "family" shall not be construed to mean fraternity, sorority, club, student center, and similar uses, and is distinguished from persons occupying lodging in a hotel, inn or boarding/rooming house as herein defined.
Front facade: The building street facade, which in R districts is nearest to the required front yard, and which in districts other than R districts is nearest the required sidewalk area, or adjacent to the supplemental zone. See sidewalk area.
Garage, private: An accessory building or a portion of a main building used for the parking or storage of automobiles of the occupants of main building, with a roof and fully enclosed with a minimum of three fixed sides and one side that can be closed and secured. When such building is not fully enclosed, it is considered a carport.
Gasoline and fuel stations: Any building, structure, or area of land used for the retail sale of automobile fuels, oils, and accessories, and where repair service, if any, is incidental to the sale of fuels, and conducted only in bays inside an enclosed building.
Group living: A residential establishment holding a license by the State and which provides resident services to no more than six individuals of whom one or more are unrelated. The individuals are handicapped, aged, or disabled, are undergoing rehabilitation or extended care, and are provided specialized services to meet their needs. See also Personal care home.
Habitable space: Covered and conditioned building floor area utilized for any principal permitted use except parking, storage, digital industry switchboards, power generators, and other relay equipment.
Height: The vertical distance of a structure other than a building measured from the average elevation of the finished grade surrounding the structure to the highest point of the structure.
Height of a building: The vertical distance measured from the average elevation of the finished grade at the front of the building to the highest point of the roof. The term "building height" does not include steeples, cupolas, decorative towers, antennas and mechanical equipment attached to a building.
Home occupation: Any occupation or activity carried on by a member of a family residing on the premises, in connection with which no sign is used other than a name plate not more than two square feet in area or no display that will indicate from the exterior that the building is being utilized in part for any purpose other than that of a dwelling; there is no commodity sold on the premises; there is no group instruction, assembly or activity of more than three persons; no person is employed other than members of the immediate family residing on the premises and one other person; no noise is created which can be heard beyond any property line; no dust, odor, smoke, vibrations, glare, electric disturbances or other disturbance is created that is perceptible beyond any property line.
Interior floor area: The interior floor area includes any interior heated space and any air-conditioned space, including interior lofts and, as such, includes basements, attics and garages that have either heat or air conditioning.
Junked motor vehicle: Any vehicle which is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, or inoperative, or is without current registration.
Landscaping: Trees, shrubs, ground covers, mulch, grass and other planting materials, which are installed and are permanently maintained.
Live/work unit: A residential occupancy, by a single housekeeping unit, of one or more rooms or floors in a building which includes (1) cooking space and sanitary facilities in conformance with city building standards; and (2) adequate work space accessible from the living area, reserved for and regularly used by one or more persons residing therein.
Lodging: Living quarters for a family which are rented, leased, or otherwise provided by the owner for a definite period of time, which includes hotels, inns, and rooming/boarding houses, and is not permitted in any R-district. This definition shall exclude the limited lodging permitted under the definition of "family". See Family.
1.
Hotel: A building containing one or more guest rooms offering transient lodging accommodations, available at daily rental rates, to the general public. For purposes of this definition, "transient lodging accommodations" shall mean temporary sleeping accommodations, with or without independent kitchen facilities, offered to persons traveling from one place to another, stopping overnight or otherwise in need of a temporary place to stay. Accessory uses, such as restaurants, meeting rooms, reception facilities, banquet facilities, and recreational facilities, may be provided, except where such accessory uses are prohibited in the regulations of a particular district.
2.
Inn: A type of hotel, with a maximum of 20 rooms for temporary lodging, and which may provide meals to the lodgers, but to no other guests. Adjunct eating and drinking establishments are permitted only when otherwise permitted in the district in which it is located. Independent kitchen facilities are not permitted.
3.
Rooming house/lodging house/boarding house: An establishment, other than a hotel or motel, that rents rooms for a definite period of time, and a minimum stay of one week, and which has between three and 20 lodging rooms, and may provide meals as part of the lodging fee. A rooming house is not permitted to provide independent kitchen facilities, nor meals to non-lodgers, nor meetings rooms.
Lot: A parcel of land, which is a lot of record or a combination of lots of record, and which can be described by metes and bounds. Unless otherwise indicated, the term "lot" as used in this ordinance shall mean a conforming lot.
Lot, conforming: A conforming lot is a parcel of land meeting the requirements of this ordinance as to dimensions, frontage and access.
Lot width: The shortest distance between the side lot lines, measured at the midpoint of the building line.
Non-conforming use: A use, which lawfully occupies a structure or land, and which use does not conform to the use regulations of the district in which it is situated.
Massage therapist: Any person who, licensed by the state to do so, administers massages for good or valuable consideration in accordance with standards established by the state.
Mixed use development: means any development, building or project that blends a combination of residential with commercial, office, cultural or institutional uses, and where those functions are physically and functionally integrated, including pedestrian connectivity.
Multifamily: See Dwelling, multiple family.
One and one-half story home: A residential structure that is designed such that it appears that a half-story living space has been created in the attic space of a one-story single-family home, in the space between top of the first-floor ceiling joists and the roof rafters, and which may also have a basement or elevated foundation, and which is further regulated in the R-1 district.
Open space: Private open space and public open space appropriately improved for pedestrian use and amenity and not including areas used for motorized vehicles, except for incidental service, maintenance, or emergency actions only. Open space shall be exterior and computed as the total square footage of said spaces. Open space shall meet the requirements of at least one of the following types.
Permitted open space types:
1.
Private open space: Open space that is private courts, fields, lawns, gardens, terraces, or balconies, which restrict access to residents of adjacent development.
2.
Public open space: A park, plaza, or hard surface trail that is open to the public during normal city park hours; street medians and street islands; and public sidewalk area that is located on private property. Visibility into public open space from adjacent sidewalks and streets shall be maximized as much as possible.
3.
Park: A park shall have streets along a minimum of thirty (30) percent of its perimeter, shall be completely landscaped, and shall have no more than 20 percent of its area covered with impervious surfaces with the exception of hard surface trails. A park provides recreation amenities and gathering places.
4.
Plaza: An open space that is fronted by buildings, either civic or private, and is available for public activities, but may have public access limited for the purposes of providing outdoor dining areas. A plaza shall have adjacent streets with sidewalks along a minimum of 20 percent of its perimeter and shall have clear views in to the plaza from all such points along adjacent streets. A plaza shall be completely landscaped utilizing durable pavement, and trees and other plant materials.
5.
Square: A public open space that has streets along 100% of its perimeter. A square shall be completely landscaped and may or may not consist of durable pavement.
6.
Street medians and street islands: A public open space that is surrounded by a street and located entirely within a public right-of-way and is not intended for active or passive recreational use. Such area is landscaped and may contain sculpture, fountains, flags, or similar features.
7.
Hard surface trail: Hard-surface, multi-use trails for use by pedestrians and non-motorized vehicles. Hard surface trails shall have minimum requirements as established and approved by the city.
8.
Preferred open space: Open space that is so designated by the mayor and council, and which may be counted towards open space requirements when acquired and dedicated to the city, in accordance with the city's adopted regulations.
Outbuilding: See Accessory building
Parcel: A legal lot of record.
Parking structure: A structure of one story or more used for the temporary storage of vehicles whether located above or below grade.
Parking lot: A parcel of land utilized for an at-grade temporary storage of vehicles.
Parking facility: A parking structure and/or a surface parking lot.
Park-for-hire facility: Any facility for the parking of motorized vehicles, for which service the operator thereof charges a fee.
Pawn shop: Any business engaged in whole or in part in the business of lending money on the security of pledged goods, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property on the condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property from persons or sources other than manufacturers or licensed dealers as part of or in conjunction with the business activities described in this definition. Business licensed as title pawn businesses under State law are included within the definition of pawn shop.
Personal care home: A facility within which is provided two or more beds and other facilities and services, including room, meals and personal care, for non-family ambulatory persons that require personal care. Caretakers are on the premises on a 24 hour basis. This term does not include facilities that are devoted to independent living units, boarding and lodging houses that do not provide personal care, or institutions devoted primarily to the provision of chronic or convalescent care including medical and nursing services. Personal care homes shall be licensed and/or permitted by appropriate governmental regulatory agencies.
1.
Family personal care home: A home in a family-type residence, non-institutional in character, which offers care to two through six persons and has house parent(s) who occupy and assume responsibility for the premises on a 24 hour basis.
2.
Group personal care home: A home in a residence, non-institutional in character, which offers care to seven through 15 persons.
3.
Congregate personal care home: A home offering care to 16 or more persons.
Planned street: Proposed new streets as indicated on the controlling plan.
Primary structure: The primary building on a lot, or the building that houses the primary use on a lot. Within the R-1 District, a single-family dwelling is the primary structure, and garage accessory dwellings and outbuilding accessory dwellings are secondary structures.
Private club: Buildings and facilities owned and operated by a corporation or association of persons for social or recreational purposes, but not operated primarily for profit or to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business.
Professional office: A building or portion of a building used primarily for services rendered by occupations with specialized knowledge or expertise such as architects, engineers, lawyers, doctors, bankers, realtors, financial and insurance services, and similar services, as opposed to buildings used for manufacturing, storage or sale of goods.
Religious institution: A building, together with its accessory buildings and grounds, where persons regularly assemble for religious purposes and related social events and which building, together with its accessory buildings and associated grounds, is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain religious ceremonies and purposes.
Residential front yard: Within R districts, a residential front yard is an area between a street right-of-way and the primary dwelling. For new homes on corner or through lots, such street is the same as the street address. For existing grandfathered homes on corner or through lots, such street is the street the front door is facing or, if not facing, the street nearest the front door or from which an entry area to the front door is defined. Changes to front door orientation on corner or through lots require that all other code requirements for the new front and side yards are met, and are subject to approval by the mayor and council for a change of residential front yard street orientation.
Regulating plan: An area map, or series of maps, which illustrates a plan for the location or alignment of desired new public amenities, such as streets, blocks, alleys, trails and parks.
Restaurant: A place of business authorized to prepare, cook and sell food (including nonalcoholic beverages) for immediate consumption either on or off the premises, and where the preparation and sale of alcoholic beverages for immediate consumption on the premises, may be incidental to the sale of such food, for adequate pay.
Restaurant, fast-food: An establishment that offers quick food service, accomplished through a limited menu of items for which payment is generally made at time of ordering. Orders are not generally taken at the customer's table, and food is generally served in disposable wrapping or containers.
Restaurant, full-service: An establishment primarily engaged in providing food services to patrons who order and are served by wait staff and pay after eating.
Restaurant, limited-service: An establishment primarily engaged in providing food services (except snack and nonalcoholic beverage bars) where patrons generally order or select items and pay before eating. Food and drink may be consumed on premises, taken out or delivered to the customer's location.
Retail sale: The sale of any goods to the general public, such as food, drink, clothing, gasoline, or other tangible items, not including service establishments or wholesale businesses.
Roadside stand: A structure used for display and sale of farm products, artisanal foods, art and crafts.
Roof, flat: A roof having a pitch of not more than 1-5 inches in 12 inches.
Self-storage: A facility used for the storage of household and personal property, with no commercial transactions permitted other than the rental of the storage units.
Sidewalk arcade: An arched or covered passageway that is supported by columns and is located adjacent to the sidewalk. Sidewalk arcades shall have minimum width of six feet, not including column width.
Sidewalk area: An area that begins at the street curb, includes intervening driveways, and consists of a contiguous sidewalk landscape zone, sidewalk clear zone, and sidewalk supplemental front yard as described below.
Sidewalk landscape zone: The portion of a sidewalk area adjacent to the street curb and reserved for the placement of trees, groundcover, and street furniture including utility poles, waste receptacles, fire hydrants, traffic signs, traffic control boxes, tree grates, newspaper boxes, bus shelters, sandwich boards as defined under the sign ordinance, bicycle racks, and similar elements in a manner that does not obstruct pedestrian access or motorist visibility.
Sidewalk clear zone: The portion of a sidewalk area that is reserved for pedestrian passage and is unobstructed by permanent objects to a height of eight feet including but not limited to steps and stoops, traffic control boxes, and utility structures. The sidewalk clear zone shall be adjacent to and between the sidewalk landscape zone and the sidewalk supplemental front yard and shall have a consistent cross-slope not exceeding two percent.
Sidewalk supplemental front yard: (Also referred to as the Supplemental front yard or Supplemental yard). The area located between the back of the sidewalk clear zone and the build-to-line. Adjacent to storefront treatments, the sidewalk supplemental front yard may be used for pedestrian amenity elements such as benches, merchandise display, potted plants, and decorative fountains. Outdoor dining is permitted only when adjacent to permitted bars/eating premises and establishments. Public access may be restricted only for areas adjacent to residential treatment, and for permitted outdoor dining areas.
Elements that are prohibited in the supplemental front yard include: Parking and drives; recreation areas and facilities such as swimming pools and tennis courts; fences and walls greater than 48 inches in height; service elements such as large trash and garbage containers often called dumpsters; loading docks and similar elements; and mechanical features. Adjacent to required storefront treatments, or on designated storefront streets, no element shall be attached to the sidewalk supplemental front yard in any way.
Single-family dwelling: A single residence, also called a home, on a fee-simple lot, which may also include a maximum of one accessory dwelling unit as defined in this section.
Street: A public or private thoroughfare, not less than 30 feet wide, which is open to the public and which affords the principal means of access to abutting property and to alleys that provide such access.
Street facade: See Building street facade.
Street, major: A street designated as an arterial or collector street by DeKalb County.
Street facade: The exterior wall of a building, not including extruding structures such as porches, stoops, or bay windows, which is facing the street and located along the build-to-line, and without an intervening building or street wall.
Street facade frontage: The percent of street facade along the build-to-line.
Street wall: A wall, which is no less than 75 percent opaque and built along the build-to-line and coplanar with the street facade, often for the purpose of masking a parking lot from the street. Street Walls shall be a minimum of 42 inches in height and consist of dense evergreen hedge or constructed of a material matching the adjacent street facade. Street walls shall be discontinued no more than necessary to allow automobile and pedestrian access. Street walls greater than 54 inches in height shall have other individual openings not exceeding four square feet in area each, at a height not less than 42 inches.
Structure: Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to something on the ground. Structures include buildings.
Subdivision: The process of dividing a parcel of land into smaller buildable sites. The result of such division is also called a subdivision, which may include blocks, streets, open space and public areas and the designation of the location of utilities and other improvements as required by code and includes all divisions of land involving a new public or private street to which the public has access.
Supplemental front yard: See Sidewalk supplemental front yard.
Tire stores: See Auto parts and accessory stores.
Townhouse: See Dwelling, townhome
Vehicle repair services: The replacement or repair of any part of an automobile or other motor vehicle or trailer, excluding body work, frame work, welding and major painting services.
Vehicle servicing area: A hard surface work area associated with a gasoline and fuel station or car wash, and on which minor servicing of vehicles occurs, such as fueling operations, washing of windshields, vacuuming, tire inflation and polishing of vehicles following a carwash. Repair work and replacement of vehicle parts in vehicle servicing areas is prohibited.
Wall: Any structure forming a physical barrier or enclosure, which is so constructed that 50 percent or more of the gross vertical surface is closed and prevents the passage of light, air and vision through said surface in a horizontal plane.
Wall, retaining: A structure whose primary function is to contain earth so as to provide a stable surface at a grade higher than the adjacent grade level.
Yard: An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot lines, unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided herein. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard or the depth of a rear yard, the minimum horizontal distance between the lot line and the main building shall be used.
Yard, front: A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side yard lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street line and the main building or any projections thereof other than the projections of uncovered steps, uncovered balconies or uncovered porches. On corner lots, the front yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least dimension.
Yard, rear: A yard extending across the rear of a lot between the side lot lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and the rear of the main building or any projections thereof, other than the projections of uncovered steps, or un-enclosed balconies, provided that said projections be at least ten feet from the rear lot lines. On all corner lots the rear yard shall be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
Yard, side: A yard between the main building and the side line of the lot, extending from the front lot line to the rear yard, being the minimum horizontal distance between a side lot line and the side of the main building or any projections thereto.
Visibility triangle: At street corners where two projecting street right-of-way lines intersect, the area bounded by the first 20 feet of each such intersecting lines, and a line connecting the ends of such intersecting lines, is the visibility triangle. Similarly, where the edge of commercial or multi-family driveway intersects with a street curb or the edge of the street including any on-street parking, the area outside of the driveway that is bounded by the first 20 feet of such intersecting lines, and a line connecting the ends of such intersecting lines is the visibility triangle.
Nothing shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as to impede visibility from a street or driveway, between the heights of two and one-half feet above the grade of the adjoining sidewalk and right-of way, or driveway surfaces, for a distance of eight feet within the visibility triangle.
Zoning code: The zoning code of the City of Pine Lake, Georgia
Zoning official: A permanent or contract employee of the City of Pine Lake, who is responsible for administering the city's zoning code.
