ARTICLE VI. - LITTER CONTROL

Sec. 22-151. - Findings.
Litter found throughout our community often finds its way into our streams, rivers and lakes and detracts from our quality of life. Pollutants carried into our streams, rivers and lakes by litter, diminish the quality of our water and its aquatic resources. Litter control ordinances provide a prohibition against littering and provide an enforcement mechanism with penalties for dealing with those found littering.
(Code 1986, § 6-1-14D(1))
Sec. 22-152. - Purpose and intent.
The purpose of this article is to protect the public health, safety, environment and general welfare through the regulation and prevention of litter. The objectives of this article are:
(1)
Provide for uniform prohibition throughout the city of any and all littering on public or private property; and
(2)
Prevent the desecration of the beauty and quality of life of the city and prevent harm to the public health, safety, environment and general welfare, including the degradation of water and aquatic resources caused by litter.
(Code 1986, § 6-1-14D(1.1))
Sec. 22-153. - Applicability.
This article shall apply to all public and private property within the city.
(Code 1986, § 6-1-14D(1.2))
Sec. 22-154. - Compatibility with other regulations.
This article replaces in its entirety section 50-60, but is not intended to interfere with, abrogate or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, stature, or other provision of law. The requirements of this article should be considered minimum requirements, and where any provision of this article imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall be considered to take precedence.
(Code 1986, § 6-1-14D(1.3))
Sec. 22-155. - Violations, enforcement and penalties.
(a)
Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this article. Any person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this article, may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section or may be restrained by injunction or otherwise sentenced in a manner provided by law.
(b)
Evidence.
(1)
Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane or other conveyance in violation of this article, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of the conveyance has violated this article.
(2)
Except as provided in subsection (b)(1) of this section, whenever any litter which is dumped, deposited, thrown or left on public or private property in violation of this article is discovered to contain any article, including but not limited to letters, bills, publications or other writing which display the name of the person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the article belongs or belonged to such person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person has violated this article.
(c)
Penalties. Any person who violates this article shall be guilty of a violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows:
(1)
As provided by section 1-9;
(2)
In addition to the fine set out in subsection (c)(1) of this section, the violator shall reimburse the city for the reasonable cost of removing the litter when the litter is or is ordered removed by the city; and
(3)
a.
In the sound discretion of the court, the person may be directed to pick up and remove from any public street or highway or public right-of-way for a distance not to exceed one mile any litter he or she has deposited and any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone else prior to the date of execution of sentence; or
b.
In the sound discretion of the court, the person may be directed to pick up and remove any and all litter from any public property, private right-of-way, or with prior permission of the legal owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, any private property upon which it can be established by competent evidence that he or she has deposited litter. Pick up and removal shall include any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone prior to the date of execution of sentence; and
(4)
The court may publish the names of persons convicted of violating this article.
(d)
Enforcement. All law enforcement agencies, officers and officials of this state or any political subdivision thereof, or any enforcement agency, officer or any official of any commission of this state or any political subdivision thereof, are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to enforce compliance with this article.
(Code 1986, § 6-1-14D(5))
Sec. 22-156. - Prohibition against littering public or private property or waters.
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw or leave or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter on any public or private property in this city or any waters in this city unless:
(1)
The property is designated by the state or by any of its agencies or political subdivisions for the disposal of such litter, and such person is authorized by the proper public authority to use such property;
(2)
The litter is placed into a receptacle or container installed on such property; or
(3)
The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, or has first obtained consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession, or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant, all in a manner consistent with the public welfare.
(Code 1986, § 6-1-14D(3))
Sec. 22-157. - Vehicle loads causing litter.
No person shall operate any motor vehicle with a load on or in such vehicle unless the load on or in such vehicle is adequately secured to prevent the dropping or shifting of materials from such load onto the roadway.
(Code 1986, § 6-1-14D(4))
Secs. 22-158—22-183. - Reserved.
