ARTICLE 9. - MANUFACTURED HOMES

Sec. 9.1. - Purpose.
The purpose of the article is to provide standards and regulations to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the City of Luthersville. The City of Luthersville recognizes that manufactured housing meets the needs of many county residents for affordable housing and is compatible with site-built housing if developed in accordance with comparable standards. These regulations shall govern the use and operation of all manufactured homes for permanent residential occupancy in the incorporated area of the City of Luthersville, Georgia. It is the intent of these regulations to empower the City of Luthersville Planning Commission, the Meriwether County Health Department, and the Building Inspections Department to review the development of manufactured home sites within the incorporated areas of the City of Luthersville for the purposes stated in this appendix.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, ยง 9.1, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 9.2. - Manufactured homes.
9.2-1.
Nonconforming use. Nonconforming mobile/manufactured home parks lawfully existing at the time of adoption of this appendix may be continued, but if such nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of six months, the manufactured home park shall be made to conform with the requirements of these regulations prior to its being occupied again.
9.2-2.
Location disclosure and decal requirement. Every person holding title to or possession of a manufactured home which is placed or located within the limits of City of Luthersville, shall report the location of, and obtain a location decal for, said manufactured home from the Tax Commissioner of Meriwether County annually, no later than April 1 of each year. Such location decal shall be designed in such manner and affixed to the manufactured home in such manner as to cause it to be easily visible for inspection.
9.2-3.
Issuance of permit. Any owner of a manufactured home, whether locating or relocating said manufactured home, shall obtain a permit from the city indicating compliance with all applicable codes before any person or persons are authorized to occupy any newly installed manufactured home.
9.2-4.
Permit application procedures. A manufactured home permit to move a manufactured home into or within the county shall not be issued by the city until the following conditions have been met in accordance with established administrative procedures:
1.
A valid location decal must be issued from the tax commissioner's office and attached to the manufactured home.
2.
All manufactured homes located in the City of Luthersville shall have been manufactured not more than five years prior to date of such permit applications.
3.
All manufactured homes must be located on a residential lot and shall meet all of the requirements of this appendix.
4.
A sanitary permit must be obtained from the Meriwether County Health Department for on-site sewage disposal.
5.
For purposes of this section, the tax commissioner shall issue the aforementioned location decal, the city shall issue the aforementioned building permit, and the health department shall mention the aforementioned sanitary permit. Upon issuance of the required permits, a manufactured home may be moved into the city or within the city and installed for occupancy.
6.
All manufactured homes located on individual lots will adhere to the appearance standards set forth in article 5. The type of appearance standard required will depend on the zoning district where the manufactured home is located.
9.2-5.
Exception to the issuance of a building permit. A building permit shall be required to locate a manufactured home in [the] City of Luthersville except under the following condition:
1.
Manufactured homes may be brought in the county and located on a sales lot of a state-approved dealer, as listed in the office of the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner, for sale without a building or sanitary permit. However, under no exceptions shall any manufactured home which is located on a sales lot be occupied unless all permit requirements in these regulations are met. Installation must comply with the Rules and Regulations for Manufactured Homes, chapter 120-3-7, appendix A, made and promulgated by the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner pursuant to authority set forth in O.C.G.A.
9.2-6.
Provision for temporary power after the issuance of a building permit. The city, after inspection, is authorized to permit the applicable power company to provide temporary power not to exceed 120 volts for the express purpose of completing necessary construction and installation of the manufactured home. This provision specifically does not authorize permanent power hook-up or occupancy of the manufactured home. It shall be unlawful for temporary power to be utilized on a permanent basis or for occupancy of said home.
9.2-7.
Minimum construction standards. Each newly installed manufactured home in the City of Luthersville shall conform to the minimum construction standards required by U.S. Housing and Urban Development (HUD), as required by the National Mobile Home and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 USC ยง 5401 et seq., before that manufactured home is entitled to receive any utility service to said manufactured home. It is the intent of this section of this appendix to prohibit moving manufactured homes into the City of Luthersville that do not conform to the applicable Housing and Urban Development Construction Standards, as expressed in 42 USC ยง 5401 et seq., and regulations established pursuant to that Act. To that end, no manufactured home shall be allowed to locate or relocate for permanent or temporary occupancy in this city unless that manufactured home complies with the minimum construction standards required by HUD, which compliance must be evidenced by the affixation of a permanent label or tag certifying the compliance. Manufactured homes which do not display certification compliance shall not be eligible for a City of Luthersville building and/or occupancy permit. Any manufactured home in the City of Luthersville which legally exists at the time of adoption of this appendix that does display certification compliance shall not be required to have certification. However, any manufactured home which does not display certification shall be considered a nonconforming structure and shall not be relocated to any other site within the county.
9.2-8.
Installation requirements. All newly installed manufactured homes shall be permanently connected to water, sewerage and electrical service in compliance with applicable health codes and chapter 120-3-7, Rules and Regulations for Manufactured Homes, plus appendix A of this document, made and promulgated by the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner. All manufactured homes shall be installed on an approved pier system and secured with approved tie-downs devices, an approved plumbing system, an approved electrical system and an approved landing at each exit, as required by the aforementioned rules and regulations and in compliance with appearance standards for the appropriate zoning district. Each manufactured home shall be installed such that the finished floor level of the manufactured home shall not exceed an average height higher than 80 inches in elevation from the finished grades, in accordance with chapter 120-3-7, appendix A. All manufactured [homes] shall be installed to meet the manufacturer's regulations. At the time of inspection, the space beneath each manufactured home shall be enclosed, with the exception of ventilation and access openings, and according to the appearance [standards] in section 5 it must be in compliance with (type I, II or III). The residential zone of each manufactured home will dictate which type it must meet (see Table 5.3 Permitted Uses). At the time of request for a building permit, the number of ventilation openings shall be set by the city. The standards are more specifically explained in the Rules and Regulations for Manufactured Homes. The enclosing materials shall extend from the lower edge of the exterior walls of the manufactured home to the ground surface level of the pad on which it is located. All ventilation and access openings shall be covered with wire mesh screen or its equivalent.
9.2-9.
Inspection for manufactured homes. The following requirements shall pertain to the installation of manufactured homes on individual lots or in parks:
1.
Foundation. The city shall require the foundation to be inspected to ensure compliance with the Rules and Regulations for Manufactured Homes, as may be subsequently revised. These Rules and Regulations for Manufactured Homes are incorporated as a part of this appendix by reference. Until the foundation is inspected and approved by the city, no additional work will be approved.
2.
Plumbing. The city shall require the external plumbing system to be inspected, including water and sewage hook-ups, to ensure compliance with [the] Rules and Regulations for Manufactured Homes and the appropriate, applicable, accepted plumbing codes used by the city for site-built homes. Until the plumbing system is inspected and approved by the city, no additional work will be approved.
3.
On-site sewerage. Where individual on-site sewerage systems are installed with public or community water systems, the minimum lot size shall be no less than required in the zoning district in which the home is located. All on-site sewerage systems shall be subject to the Meriwether County Health Department approval. Where individual on-site sewerage systems are installed in conjunction with private water systems, the minimum lot size shall be no less than 40,000 square feet.
4.
Stairs and landings. The city shall require stairs and landings to comply with section 1108, Stairway Construction, of the International Building Code, as amended, and also to section P, appendix A of the Rules and Regulations for Manufactured Homes, as amended.
5.
Electrical. The city shall require inspection of the electrical system to ensure compliance with the Rules and Regulations for Manufactured Homes and the current National Electrical Code, as amended.
6.
Gas. The city shall require inspection of the gas system to ensure compliance with the current International Fuel Gas Code, as amended.
7.
[Inspection required prior to use.] Until these inspections have been made and the manufactured home is found to be in compliance with all applicable codes, no permanent power may be installed, and no occupancy shall be permitted. Evidence of compliance will be shown by written documentation provided to the applicant and a sticker attached to the electrical meter base.
9.2-10.
Occupancy of recreational vehicles. No recreational vehicle shall be permanently occupied within any manufactured home park development nor connected to permanent water or electrical power and no manufactured home location permits shall be issued for recreational vehicles.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, ยง 9.2, 4-10-2001)
