ARTICLE 8. - SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS

Sec. 8.1. - Lots of record.
Any lot of record which is legal on the date of the first published notice of this appendix, may be used subject to the following exceptions and modifications:
8.1-1.
Use of substandard lots. Where the owner of a lot, at the time of the adoption or amendment of this appendix, does not own sufficient area and width to enable him to conform to the dimensional requirements of this appendix may be used as a building site for a structure or use permitted in that zone; provided, however, that the same side yard, setback, open space, and other dimensional requirements are met that would be required for a standard lot except as stipulated in table 5.1.
8.1-2.
Residential use of substandard lots. In addition to section 8.1-1, in any residential district, any lot of record existing at the time of adoption or amendment of this appendix which has a width or area less than that required by this appendix, may be used as a building site for a single-family dwelling only. In the case of such a lot, when it is not possible to provide the required side yards and at the same time build a minimum width single-family dwelling, the planning commission is empowered to hear the request for a side yard variance, provided there is a ten-foot side yard. If a minimum ten-foot side yard is not possible, then a minimum width for single-family dwelling may be requested.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 8.1, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 8.2. - Area, yard and height regulations.
8.2-1.
Lot area. Hereafter, no lot shall be reduced in size so that lot width, size of yards, lot area per family or any other requirement of this appendix is altered except when a portion of a lot is acquired for a public purpose.
8.2-2.
Yards and open space.
1.
Whenever a lot abuts upon a public alley, one-half of the alley width may be considered as a portion of the required yard.
2.
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky so that projections, such as sills, window air conditioning units, chimneys, cornices and ornamental features, may not extend into a required yard.
3.
Other provisions of this appendix notwithstanding, fences, walls, hedges, driveways and buffer areas may be permitted in any required yard or along the edge of any yard, provided that no fence, wall or hedge along the street sides of corner lots shall violate the corner visibility provisions of this appendix.
8.2-3.
Front yards.
1.
Where an official line has been established for the future widening or opening of a street or major thoroughfare upon which a lot abuts, the depth of a front or side yard shall be measured from such official line to the nearest line of the building.
2.
On through lots, the required front yard shall be provided on each street.
3.
Corner lots shall meet the minimum front yard requirements on the side adjacent to both streets and the remaining yards shall be considered side yard requirements.
4.
Open, unenclosed porches, platforms or paved terraces, which are not covered by a roof or canopy and do not extend above the level of the first floor of the building, may extend or project into the required setback area if it is less than six feet.
5.
Within the same block and zoning district, when 25 percent or more of the existing buildings are located within 200 feet on each side of a lot have less than the minimum required setback, the required front setback of such lot should not exceed the average of the existing front setbacks.
8.2-4.
Side yards.
1.
For the purposes of the side yard regulations, a group of commercial buildings separated by common or party walls shall be considered as one building occupying one lot.
2.
The minimum width of side yards for schools, libraries, churches and other public or semi-public buildings in residential districts shall be 25 feet. Where a side yard is adjacent to a business or commercial district, then the width of that yard shall be as required for the district in which the building is located.
8.2-5.
Fences and walls. No fence or freestanding wall in a required yard other than a retaining wall shall be more than eight feet in height.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 8.2, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 8.3. - Corner visibility.
No sign, fence, wall, hedge, planting or other obstruction to vision, extending to a height in excess of three feet above the established street grade, shall be erected, planted or maintained within the area of a corner lot that is included between the lines of the intersecting streets and a straight line connecting them at points 25 feet distant from the intersection of the street lines.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 8.3, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 8.4. - Accessory uses and structures.
8.4-1.
An accessory structure shall not be permitted in any required front yard, except as specified in section 8.4-8.
8.4-2.
No accessory building or structure shall be erected beyond a required yard line along any street.
8.4-3.
Residential accessory structures, such as garages, greenhouses or workshops, shall not be rented or occupied for commercial use purposes.
8.4-4.
All residential accessory buildings must be located at least ten feet from the principal building.
8.4-5.
Areas in which the accessory storage of a boat, boat trailer or travel trailer is permitted shall not include the required front yard.
8.4-6.
Gasoline station pumps and pump islands where permitted may occupy the required yards, provided that they shall not be less than 15 feet from street lines; canopies, whether attached or detached from the principal building must be at least 14 feet in height and the outermost edge shall be five feet from any property line.
8.4-7.
All nonresidential accessory buildings shall only be used by the owners, employees, lessee or tenants of the premises, and shall meet the setback requirements of the principal building.
8.4-8.
An open or unenclosed swimming pool may occupy a required rear or side yard, provided that the pool is not located closer than six feet to a rear lot line or ten feet to an interior side lot line. A three-foot wide walk space shall be provided between pool walls and protective fences or barrier walls.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 8.4, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 8.5. - Residential home occupations.
The conduct of business in residential units may be permitted in the R-45 and R-66 zoned districts under the provisions of this section. It is the intent of this section to ensure the following:
1.
Compatibility of home occupations with other uses permitted in residential zoning districts.
2.
Maintain and preserve the character of residential neighborhoods and provide peace, quiet and domestic tranquility within all residential neighborhoods.
3.
Within the district, in order to guarantee all residents freedom from excessive noise, traffic, nuisance, fire hazard, and other possible effects of commercial uses being conducted in this district.
Residential home occupations, where permitted, must meet the following special requirements:
8.5-1.
A home occupation is subordinate to the use of a dwelling unit for residential purposes. No more than 25 percent of the floor area of the dwelling unit may be used in connection with a home occupation or for storage purposes in connection with a home occupation.
8.5-2.
No more than one home occupation shall be permitted within a single dwelling unit.
8.5-3.
A home occupation shall be carried on wholly within the principal structure. No home occupation nor any storage of goods, materials, or products connected with a home occupation shall be allowed in accessory buildings or garages which are attached or detached.
8.5-4.
The residential home occupation is limited to employment of residents of the property and not more than one additional person.
8.5-5.
A home occupation shall produce no noise or obnoxious odors, vibrations, glare, fumes, or electrical interference detectable to normal sensory perceptions outside the principal structure.
8.5-6.
No traffic shall be generated by such home occupations in greater volume than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood and any need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be met by providing off-street space and located in rear or side yard.
8.5-7.
On the premises, retail sales are prohibited except for the retail sales of products or goods produced or fabricated on the premises as a result of the home occupation.
8.5-8.
There shall be no exterior indication of the home occupation or variation from the residential character of the principal structure.
8.5-9.
No on-street parking of business related vehicles (either marked or commercially equipped) shall be permitted at any home. No business related vehicles larger than a van, panel truck or pick-up truck is permitted to park overnight on the premises. The number of business related vehicles is one.
8.5-10.
No commercial telephone directory listing, newspaper, radio or television service shall be used to advertise the location of a home occupation to the general public.
8.5-11.
Permitted residential home occupations:
1.
Architectural services.
2.
Art studio.
3.
Consulting services.
4.
Data processing.
5.
Direct sale product distribution (Amway, Avon, Jaffra, Mary Kay, Tupperware, etc.), provided there is no production on premises.
6.
Drafting and graphic services.
7.
Dressmaking, sewing, tailoring, contract sewing (one machine).
8.
Electronic assembly.
9.
Engineering service.
10.
Financial planning or investment services.
11.
Flower arranging.
12.
Home office.
13.
House cleaning service.
14.
In-home child care, but not more than six children at a time, including the caregiver's own pre-school children.
15.
Insurance sales, broker or appraiser.
16.
Interior design.
17.
Laundry and ironing service.
18.
Locksmith.
19.
Real estate sales, broker or appraiser.
20.
Telephone answering, switchboard call forwarding.
21.
Tutoring, including all indoor and outdoor instructional services limited to two students at a time.
22.
Writing, resume services, computer programming.
23.
Surveyor (office only).
24.
Medical transcription.
25.
Legal office.
26.
Barber shops.
27.
Event centers for special events, provided that the parcel is not less than three acres and that the event center can be used for not more than 200 persons.
8.5-12.
Prohibited residential home occupations:
1.
Ambulance service.
2.
Restaurants, food preparation.
3.
Automobile repair, parts sales, upholstery, or detailing, washing services.
4.
Veterinary services (including care, grooming and boarding).
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 8.5, 4-10-2001; Ord. No. 2005-03, § 2, 7-12-2005; Ord. No. 2014-01, § 1, 6-9-2014)
Sec. 8.6. - Rural home occupations.
Rural home occupations in the rural development districts shall be permitted under the provisions of this section. It is the intent of the section to ensure the compatibility of rural home occupations with other uses permitted in the Rural Development (RD) districts; maintain and preserve the rural character of the area and not create a nuisance for residents in the area by exceeding traffic, smoke, noise or be a fire hazard. The purpose of rural home occupations is to provide a means for residents in the larger lot, rural development districts to participate in the type of businesses permitted in residential districts, be able to conduct home occupations in an accessory building where necessary, and to park, on-site, vehicles required for home occupations. Rural home occupations, where permitted, must meet the following special requirements:
8.6-1.
The minimum lot size is two acres. For lots less than two acres, the home occupation is limited to the provisions of section 8.5.
8.6-2.
The rural home occupation shall be clearly subordinate to the principal use of the parcel and shall not change the residential and/or agricultural character of the area.
No more than 25 percent of the floor area of the principal dwelling shall be used in connection with the home occupation or storage purposes.
8.6-3.
The rural home occupation shall be conducted within a dwelling or within an accessory building provided all structure uses are harmonious in appearance with the zoning district in which rural home occupation is located.
8.6-4.
One accessory building not exceeding the minimum yard requirements of the district in which it is located may be used in connection with the rural home occupation.
8.6-5.
The business of selling stocks of merchandise, supplies or products shall not be conducted on premises except under the following circumstances:
1.
Orders previously made by telephone or at sales parties may be filled on premises; and
2.
Incidental retail sales may be in connection with the permitted home occupation.
8.6-6.
The existence of the rural home occupation shall not be apparent outside the dwelling or accessory building in which the rural home occupation is conducted, except that one display sign limited to nine square feet of sign area shall be permitted.
8.6-7.
No outside storage of equipment or materials used in the conduct of the rural home occupation, other than trade vehicles, is permitted.
8.6-8.
The rural home occupation is limited to residents of the property and not more than two additional persons.
8.6-9.
No additional points of access to any street shall be permitted, unless necessary to provide safe and proper access to the proposed use.
8.6-10.
Permitted rural home occupations:
1.
All occupations permitted in section 8.5.
2.
Appliance repair.
3.
Auto repair.
4.
Barber shops/beauty shops (limited to two stations).
5.
Cabinet making.
6.
Ceramics.
7.
Contracting, masonry, plumbing or painting.
8.
Tow truck services.
9.
Upholstery.
10.
Veterinary services.
11.
Antique shop.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 8.6, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 8.7. - Special density lots for the use of family homesteads.
In order to perpetuate the family homestead in rural areas, each parcel in single ownership may be subdivided for use solely as a homestead by an individual who is the grandparent, parent, stepparent, adopted parent, sibling, child, stepchild, adopted child or grandchild of the person who conveyed the parcel to said individual, at a density not to exceed one unit per acre. This provision supersedes other land use district density requirements, except that it may not be used within a platted subdivision. In order to qualify for the use of family homestead, the following criteria shall be met:
1.
The property being transferred must be used as the primary residence of the grantee.
2.
The deed for transferred property must state the relationship of the grantee to the grantor.
3.
Transferred property may be deeded in the heir's (grantee's) name or jointly deeded in the grantor/grantee names. The transferred property may not be deeded solely in the grantor name.
4.
This special density provision may be utilized on only one occasion per eligible individual grantee. The grantor may exercise this special density provision for other eligible individual grantees, so long as the maximum allowable density for the property transferred from the original parcel can be met.
5.
An individual wishing to obtain a manufactured home or conventional building permit under these special density provisions shall make application to the city. Upon verification of the eligibility of the applicant by the planning commission, a permit may be issued.
6.
Should the transferred property be subsequently sold or otherwise transferred to another party, including a non-family party, these special density provisions shall remain.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 8.7, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 8.8. - Reserved.
Sec. 8.9. - Cemeteries.
All proposed cemeteries, whether public, private or in conjunction with a religious institution, shall not be located in a floodplain area, as delineated by FIRM maps for City of Luthersville, or located on a lot or parcel less than five acres in area.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 8.9, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 8.10. - Property maintenance.
To ensure the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of City of Luthersville, the following regulations shall be established for the maintenance of property in the town:
8.10-1.
Non-functioning appliances shall be stored in an enclosed accessory or principal building. Any non-functioning appliances, such as refrigerators, freezers, stoves, etc., shall have doors removed prior to storage.
8.10-2.
Any major auto repairs, such as building motors, transmissions or heavy body work, shall be done in an enclosed accessory building or on a section of property nor visible from the public street.
8.10-3.
Non-licensed and/or inoperable vehicles shall be stored in an enclosed accessory building. No more than two non-licensed and/or inoperable vehicles shall be stored on property unless application for a junkyard has been approved by the City of Luthersville City Council or unless the property owner has a valid reason for temporarily storing vehicles on his or her property. Temporary storage shall be considered a duration of not more than 60 days.
8.10-4.
Yard sales shall last for a specified duration only. There shall not be any continuous yard sales in [the] City of Luthersville. Storing of yard sale items shall be in an enclosed accessory or principal building and shall not be on display in any yard except during the hours of the yard sales. Yard sales may last eight hours a day no more than three days a week at the same residence.
8.10-5.
No abandoned mobile or manufactured homes shall be used as a storage or accessory building. Abandoned mobile/manufactured homes shall be removed from property at the owner's expense and upon notification by the city that the said mobile/manufactured home is abandoned and is causing a health or safety hazard to surrounding property owners.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 8.10, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 8.11. - Junkyards, junk business or salvage operation.
To ensure the safety, health and welfare of the citizens of [the City of Luthersville], the following shall state the regulations necessary for junkyards, junk businesses and salvage operations:
8.11-1.
The minimum lot area for a junkyard, junk business or salvage operation shall be ten acres.
8.11-2.
All junkyards, junk businesses or salvage operations shall be buffered by an eight-foot chain link or similar material fence and either a vegetated buffer of 200 feet or a non-vegetated buffer of 500 feet.
8.11-3.
Junkyards, junk dealers, or junk businesses as defined in article 3 of this appendix shall require application to the City of Luthersville for approval by the city council. Application fee shall be posted in the city hall. All applications for junkyards or junk businesses shall include a site plan which details the size of the site, fencing which will be put in place and required buffer areas. Site plans shall show whether the buffer will be vegetated or non-vegetated and shall include the property owner's buffer maintenance plan.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, § 8.11, 4-10-2001)
