ARTICLE VIII. - DEDICATIONS AND RESERVATIONS

Section 800. - Improvements.
The final responsibility for the installation of the improvements required by this Ordinance at the standards imposed rests with the subdivider. Upon proper installation of these improvements, the subdivider shall take the final steps to dedicate the improvements and have them accepted by the City Commission.
Section 801. - Effect of Recording.
Recording the approved final plat constitutes a dedication of all public roads to public use, a dedication of all neighborhood parks and other public areas to public use, and a reservation for possible future public acquisition of such additional areas as may be required by the Planning Commission or the City Commission.
Section 802. - Effect of Offers of Dedication.
The offer to dedicate roads, parks or other areas or portions of them, does not impose any obligation upon the City Commission concerning maintenance or improvements until the City Commission has made actual appropriation by ordinance, by entry, or by improvement.
If land is dedicated for public use and such use is not imminent, the subdivider may be permitted to dedicate the land with the privilege of using the surface rights until the City Commission is ready to use the land. Such dedication with the temporary privilege of use shall be noted on the final plat.
Section 803. - Effect of Land Reservation.
On sites reserved for eventual public acquisition, no building development is permitted during the period of reservation. The Planning Commission may require the reservation of such sites in addition to land to be dedicated for public use. The reservation period shall not be longer than eighteen (18) months, unless with the consent of the subdivider. Land reserved for public acquisition, along with the period of reservation, shall be indicated on the final plat.
Section 804. - Dedication of Local Recreation Sites.
Where a proposed park, playground, open space, or other local or neighborhood recreation site is shown on the Comprehensive Plan, or where the Planning Commission considers that a local recreation site is necessary to carry out the purpose of these regulations, the Planning Commission may require the dedication of all or a portion of such site in accordance with the following standards:
(A)
The land to be dedicated shall be of suitable size, dimensions, topography, access, and general character for the proposed use; and
(B)
The amount of land so required for this purpose shall not be less than five percent (5%) of the total area of the subdivision.
Section 805. - Fee In Lieu of Required Dedication.
Where the area required for dedication for recreation or open space use would result in a site too small to be usable, or if the Comprehensive Plan calls for such local recreation site to be located elsewhere, or if a suitable local recreation site cannot be properly located in the subdivision, as determined by the Planning Commission, a payment of a fee in lieu of dedication of such land is required. The following procedure shall be followed:
(A)
The amount of the fee shall be substantially equal to the value of the land that would be set aside if the standards specified in Section 804 were to be applied;
(B)
The fee shall be paid to the City of Brunswick, Georgia, prior to the approval of the final plat; and
(C)
All money paid to the City in this manner shall be kept in a special capital reserve fund and shall be used only for the acquisition of land for recreation and open space purposes.
Section 806. - Alternative Method of Providing Local Recreation Sites.
In lieu of requiring the dedication of a recreation site, or a fee for this purpose, the Planning Commission may permit a private site to be used under the following conditions:
(A)
If in the judgment of the Planning Commission the purposes of this Ordinance regarding recreation and open space land will be accomplished; and
(B)
If the private site is permanently devoted to recreation use and adequately secured for such use by proper deed covenants or other private restrictions.
Section 807. - Drainageways.
Where a subdivision is traversed by a water course, stream, channel, or other drainageway, the subdivider shall provide a drainage easement conforming substantially with the line of the drainageway. The easement shall be of a width adequate to preserve the unimpeded flow of natural drainage, to allow for the widening, deepening, relocation, improvement, or protection of the drainageway, and to allow installation of a storm water sewer.
Any change in an existing drainageway must first be approved by the City Engineer.
(Ord. No. 568, ยง 807, 9-18-1968)
