ARTICLE III. - INTERPRETATIONS AND DEFINITIONS

Section 300. - Interpretations.
For the purposes of this Ordinance, all words used in the present tense include the future tense. All words in the plural number include the singular number, and all words in the singular number include the plural number.
The words "shall" and "must" are mandatory, while the words "should" and "may" are permissive.
The terms "Brunswick" or "City" refer only to the land within the Corporate Limits of the City of Brunswick, Georgia.
The term "Planning Commission" refers to the Brunswick Planning and Appeals Commission.
The term "City Commission" refers to the Commissioners of the City of Brunswick, Georgia.
The term "County Health Officials" refers to the official representatives of the Glynn County Health Department charged with the responsibility of inspecting and reviewing existing and proposed sewer and water facilities. The term "State Health Officials" refers to those official representatives of the State of Georgia Health Department charged with the responsibility of inspecting and reviewing existing and proposed sewer and water facilities.
(Ord. No. 1055, § 4, 3-21-2018)
Section 301. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this Ordinance, the following definitions are included here because they are deemed essential to avoid misunderstanding the intent of the provisions. Terms not specifically defined herein shall have their customary dictionary definitions when not inconsistent with the context.
301.1 Lot. A lot is a portion or parcel of land separated from other portions or parcels by description as on a subdivision plat, or on a survey map, or as described by metes and bounds, and intended for transfer of ownership or for building development. For the purposes of this Ordinance the term "lot" does not include any portion of a dedicated right-of-way.
301.2 Plan, Comprehensive. This term refers to the Comprehensive Development Plan for the City of Brunswick, Georgia as amended. The Comprehensive Plan was originally adopted by the Planning Commission on May 15th, 1962, and by the City Commission on August 1st, 1962.
301.3 Plan, Major Thoroughfare. This term refers to the portion of the Comprehensive Plan dealing with the long-range development of the major roads in Brunswick as a part of a total, planned transportation system.
301.4 Plan, Sketch. A sketch plan is an informal plan, not necessarily to exact scale, indicating the existing features of a tract proposed for subdivision, as well as its surroundings, and including a general layout of the proposed subdivision.
301.5 Plat. A plat is a diagrammatic plan or map showing the boundaries which result from the division of any tract of land into two (2) or more parcels.
301.6 Plat, Final. A final plat is a complete and exact plan of a subdivision prepared for official recording as required by law.
301.7 Plat, Preliminary. A preliminary plat is a tentative subdivision plan, in lesser detail than a final plat, indicating the approximate proposed layout of a subdivision as a basis for consideration prior to preparation of a final plat.
301.8 Road. A road is a pathway for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a street, avenue, boulevard, thoroughfare, highway, expressway, lane, alley, circle, cul-de-sac, or other such classification. For the purposes of this Ordinance "Roads" are divided into the following categories:
A)
Major Arterial—to provide for the continuous movement of traffic at moderately high speed from one area of the community to another, as shown on the Major Thoroughfare Plan;
B)
Major Collector—to carry traffic between minor local roads and major arterials;
C)
Minor Local Road—to provide access to abutting properties, but not intended to serve through traffic or intersect with arterials;
D)
Alley or Service Drive—a minor way used for service access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on a road;
E)
Cul-de-Sac—a minor way with only one outlet and terminating at the other end in a vehicular turn-around; and
F)
Marginal Access Road—a minor road generally parallel and adjacent to a major road providing access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
301.9 Subdivider. A subdivider is a person, firm, or corporation having such a proprietary interest in the land to be subdivided as will authorize the maintenance of proceedings to subdivide such land under this Ordinance, or the authorized agent of such person, firm or corporation for the purpose of proceeding under this Ordinance.
301.10 Subdivision. A subdivision means all divisions of a tract of land into two (2) or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or building development, and includes all division of land involving a new road or a change in existing roads, and includes resubdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided; provided, however, that the following are not included within this definition:
A)
The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the standards of the County; and
B)
The division of land into parcels of five (5) acres or more where no new road is involved.
(Ord. No. 1055, § 4, 3-21-2018)
