ARTICLE XIV. - UTILITY IMPROVEMENTS AND STANDARDS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Utilities, Ch. 22.

Section 1400. - Sewer and Water Facilities Feasibility Report.
The subdivider must submit to the Planning Commission a feasibility report on sewer and water facilities to serve the proposed subdivision. The report should be prepared by a registered professional engineer and shall be submitted to the City Engineer, the County Health Officials, and the State Health Officials for review prior to submission to the Planning Commission. The report, together with the comments of the appropriate agencies, shall accompany and be a part of the preliminary plat application.
If sewer and water facilities are available and adequate to meet the anticipated needs of the subdivision, the requirement for a feasibility report may be waived, provided however that the proposed water and sewer service arrangements be mutually agreed upon among the subdivider, the City Manager, the appropriate utility agency or agencies, the County Health Officials, and the State Health Officials.
1400.1 Existing Systems. A report on the feasibility of connecting the subdivision to an existing approved sewerage system and/or an existing approved water supply system shall be made. The study shall include the distances from the subdivision to the nearest public utilities and the capacity of the existing systems to handle the proposed additional loads.
1400.2 Separate Sewerage System. If connection to an existing sewerage system is not deemed feasible, the feasibility of constructing a separate sewerage system and treatment facility shall be investigated. This study shall give the location of the treatment facility, the receiving stream, the degree of treatment, and the design population.
1400.3 Separate Water System. If connection to an existing water supply system is not deemed feasible, the possibility of constructing a separate water supply system shall be investigated. The study shall give the location and nature of the water source, the degree of treatment, and the design population.
1400.4 Priorities. The Planning Commission shall give consideration to the method of waste disposal and water supply in the following order of preference:
(A)
Connection to an approved public sewerage system and an approved public water supply system;
(B)
Connection to an approved public water supply system and an approved private community sewerage system;
(C)
Connection to an approved public sewerage system and individual water supply system; and
(D)
Connection to an approved private community sewerage system and individual water supply system.
1400.5 Approval of Systems. In the event it proves feasible to either connect to existing systems or construct separate community systems, a formal application must be submitted to the County Health Officials and the State Health Officials. Evidence of the approval of these applications must accompany the feasibility report submitted to the Planning Commission. No construction shall take place on any water and sewer facilities before the proper permits are obtained from the County Health Officials and the State Health Officials.
1400.6 On-Site Disposal. For reasons of protecting present sources of water supply and safeguarding the health of the public from possible contamination by improper methods of sewage disposal, the Planning Commission will approve on-site, subsurface sewage disposal systems only when the feasibility study indicates the following:
(A)
Justification of the project necessitates consideration of this method;
(B)
The soil absorption is satisfactory; and
(C)
On-site disposal will not endanger ground water supplies below the level of the absorption system.
1400.7 Percolation Tests. In the event it is necessary to install on-site subsurface sewage disposal systems, soil absorption and water table determination tests shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of the County Health Officials.
Section 1401. - Water Supply Requirements.
Based on the results of the feasibility report required in Section 1400, the subdivider shall be required to either install or have installed by the appropriate agency an adequate, approved water supply system as follows:
1401.1 Existing System. Where there is an existing public water supply system on or near the proposed subdivision, a complete water main supply system connected to the existing public water supply system is required.
1401.2 Separate Community System. Where there is no existing public water supply system on or near the subdivision, a separate community water supply system approved by the City Engineer and the County Health Officials may be required, along with satisfactory provision for its future maintenance.
1401.3 Individual Lot Supply. Where there is no existing public water supply system available and a separate community water supply system is not feasible, each lot in a subdivision must be provided with an individual water supply system in accordance with the requirements of the County Health Officials.
1401.4 Fire Hydrants. Fire hydrants must be installed as an integral part of any public water supply system, in accordance with the requirements of the City Engineer and the State Fire Marshal.
Section 1402. - Sanitary Sewerage Requirements.
Based on the results of the feasibility report required in Section 1400, the subdivider shall be required to either install or have installed by the appropriate agency an adequate, approved sanitary sewerage disposal system as follows:
1402.1 Existing System. Where there is an existing public sanitary sewer system on or near the subdivision, a complete sanitary sewage disposal system must be installed and connected to the existing system.
1402.2 Planned Public System. Where there is no existing public sanitary sewer system on or near the subdivision, but a public sanitary sewer is to be installed on or near the subdivision within a reasonable time, as determined by the Planning Commission, a complete sanitary sewage collection system must be installed and
(A)
Connected to a community treatment facility until such time as the planned public sanitary sewer system is complete and adequate connection is provided thereto; or
(B)
Capped, and on-site subsurface sewage disposal systems provided, if it is determined that a temporary community treatment facility is not feasible.
1402.3 Separate Community System. Where there is no existing public sanitary sewer system, a separate community sanitary sewer system and treatment facility are required, if possible. Separate community sewerage facilities must be installed in accordance with the requirements of the City Engineer, the County Health Officials, and the State Health Officials, and must receive their written approval. Satisfactory provision must be made to insure future maintenance of the separate community system.
1402.4 On-Site Disposal. Where there is no existing public sanitary sewer system and a community sanitary sewer system and treatment facility are not feasible, on-site subsurface sewage disposal systems shall be installed on individual lots in accordance with the requirements of the City Engineer, the County Health Officials, and the State Health Officials. An appropriate County Health Department official must inspect and approve each private on-site disposal system.
1402.5 Connection Prior to Development. If it is determined by the County Health Officials or the State Health Officials that on-site subsurface sewage disposal systems are not feasible, connections to an approved public or community sanitary sewer system must be made prior to the development of the subdivision.
1402.6 Sewer Pipe. All sewer mains must be at least eight (8") inches in diameter and all sewer laterals must be at least four (4") inches and stubbed out to the road right-of-way lines. Sanitary sewers shall not be used as storm sewers.
Section 1403. - Storm Drainage Requirements.
modified
Storm sewers and other related facilities which comprise complete storm drainage system shall be designed and installed in accordance with City standards in each subdivision as necessary to permit the unimpeded flow of natural water courses, to insure the drainage of all low points along the line of roads, and to intercept storm-water runoff along roads. In addition, storm sewers and other related facilities shall be designed not only for the anticipated peak discharge from the property being subdivided, but also for the anticipated run-off that will occur when all other property in the drainage area is fully developed.
1403.1 Responsibility of Subdivider. The subdivider shall be responsible for installing, at his own expense, all improvements necessary to provide proper drainage for his property and to tie the drainage system of the subdivision into the existing City drainage system. All drainage improvements must be completed and approved by the City Engineer prior to the development of the subdivision.
1403.2 Abutting Properties. In the design of storm sewers and other related facilities, special consideration shall be given to preventing excess run-off onto adjacent developed or undeveloped land. When a storm drainage outlet will abut another property, the subdivider should secure the approval, in writing, of the adjoining affected owners.
1403.3 Storm Water Drainage from Roads. A road must be designed so as to provide for the discharge of surface water from its right-of-way. The slope of the crown of a road shall not be less than one-eighth (⅛) of an inch per foot. Adequate facilities must exist along all roads to properly intercept and carry away storm water drainage.
Section 1404. - Utility Easements.
When easements are required in the design of a subdivision, they must be a minimum of ten (10) feet wide and, to the fullest extent possible, be adjacent to, or centered on, rear or side lot lines. All easements shall be designed in accordance with City standards.
Every effort should be made in new subdivisions to install electric and telephone facilities underground and/or along rear lot lines, whenever possible.
When a subdivision is traversed by a water course, drainage way, channel, or stream there shall be provided a storm-water or drainage easement of adequate width. Parallel streets may be required by the Planning Commission on either side of such easements where necessary to facilitate both drainage and circulation.
Section 1405. - Utility System Plans.
The plans for the installation of a water supply system, a sanitary sewer system, and a storm drainage system must be prepared by a registered professional engineer. Such plans shall be prepared with the cooperation and approval of the appropriate utility agency, the City Engineer, the County Health Officials, and the State Health Officials. Upon completion of the water, sewer, and storm drainage systems, copies of the plans as built and approved shall be filed with both the Planning Commission and the City Commission.
Section 1406. - Improvement Expenses.
The subdivider shall be required to install all improvements required in these regulations at his own expense, as follows:
(A)
By arrangement with the appropriate department or public agency to make the installation as a part of its regular work program; or
(B)
By private contract with the written approval of the appropriate department or public utility agency.
