Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Brunswick, Georgia" or "the Brunswick Code" and may be so cited.
(Code 1953, § 1.1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the interpretation and construction of this Code and of all ordinances of the city, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless they are inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city commission:
Charter. The words "Charter" or "the Charter" shall mean and refer to the Charter of the City of Brunswick, Georgia, as printed in Part I of this volume.
City. The words "the city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the words "of Brunswick" followed.
Code. Whenever the words "Code" or "this Code" are used they shall mean and refer to the Code of Ordinances of Brunswick, Georgia as designated in section 1-1.
Commission. Wherever the term "commission" is used, the same shall be held to mean the commission of the City of Brunswick, Georgia.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided in O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6, when a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, only the first or last day shall be counted; and if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the following day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty; however, when the following day is a Saturday or Sunday, the party shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty.
State Law reference— Similar construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(3).
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean Glynn County, Georgia.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Health officer. Wherever the words "health officer" or "city health officer" are used in this Code they shall mean the health officer of Glynn County.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper, proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
Land, real estate. "Land" and "real estate" include rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
Oath. The word "oath" includes affirmation. When an oath is required or authorized by law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken. An affirmation has the same force and effect as an oath.
O.C.G.A.. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." shall mean the latest edition of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. "Personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as herein defined.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. "Property" includes real, personal and mixed estates and interests.
Public place. The term "public place" shall include any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto, any lake or stream, or any place which from its public character, members of the general public frequent, or where they may be expected to congregate at any time as a matter of common right; also, any place at which, even though it is privately owned or controlled, a number of persons have assembled through common usage or by general or indiscriminate invitation, expressed or implied.
Real property. "Real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature, subscription. "Signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the city.
Tenant, occupant. The words "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies, the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Written, in writing. "Written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 1953, § 1.2)
State Law reference— Construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect. The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1953, § 1.4)
Sec. 1-4. - Notes and catchlines of sections not part of law.
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, the descriptive headings or catchlines immediately preceding or within the text of the individual sections of this Code, except the section numbers included in the headings or catchlines immediately preceding the text of such sections, and title and chapter analyses do not constitute part of the law and shall in no manner limit or expand the construction of any section of this Code. All historical citations, title and chapter analyses, and notes set out in this Code are given for the purpose of convenient reference and do not constitute part of the law.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city commission that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the city commission without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section.
(Code 1953, § 1.6)
Sec. 1-6. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a sentence of confinement up to six months, a fine up to $1,000.00 or both or such alternative punishment as permitted by law.
(b)
Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
Sec. 1-7. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
Effect. Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the city commission to make the same a part hereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated in this Code so that reference to "The Code of the City of Brunswick, Georgia," shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
(b)
Manner. All ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the city commission.
(c)
Cite. All sections, articles, chapters or other provisions of this Code desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section number, article number, chapter or other number, as the case may be.
(d)
Language. Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code should be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section _____ of The Code of the City of Brunswick, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: …." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(e)
New sections. If a new section not heretofore existing in this Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Ordinances of the City of Brunswick, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section, article, chapter or other designation as the case may be, to be numbered _____, which reads as follows: …." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(f)
New material. In lieu of subsection (e), when the city commission desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature embracing a subject not previously existing in this Code, which the council desires to incorporate into the Code, a provision in substantially the following language may be made part of such ordinance: "It is the intention of the city commission, and it is hereby ordained, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made part of the Code of the City of Brunswick, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
Sec. 1-8. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the city commission. A supplement to the Code shall include substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city commission or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code, and shall also include all amendments to the Charter during the period. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier, meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement, may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____," inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code;
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but, in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-9. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinances adopting this Code shall affect any of the following when not inconsistent with this Code:
(1)
Any ordinance which is temporary, although general in effect, or special, although permanent in effect;
(2)
Any ordinance adopted for purposes which have been consummated;
(3)
Any ordinance assessing a fee;
(4)
Any right or franchise granted by the city commission to any person, firm or corporation;
(5)
Any administrative ordinance of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
(6)
Any ordinance fixing salaries of officers or employees of the city;
(7)
Any ordinance, resolution, policy or procedure pertaining to the regulation, retirement or pensioning of city personnel;
(8)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(9)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(10)
Any ordinance making any act or failure to do any act an offense against the city, when such ordinance is authorized under the state law;
(11)
Establishing any one-way street, traffic device, signal or marking, any parking regulation, or any limitation placed upon the use of any specific street for vehicles or pedestrians;
(12)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(13)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the grades of any street in the city;
(14)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city or providing regulations for the same;
(15)
Any ordinance fixing ad valorem taxes, or providing for the levying or collecting thereof;
(16)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor;
(17)
Any ordinance annexing real property to the city;
(18)
Any ordinance adopted after March 6, 1991;
and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code. These ordinances are on file in the city clerk's office.
(Ord. No. 905, § 1, 11-6-1991)
