ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 23-1-1. - Preamble.
This chapter establishes comprehensive zoning regulations for the City of Brunswick, creates various zoning districts within the city, regulates the development and use of land parcels according to the character of each district and provides for the administration, enforcement and amendment of this chapter. The provisions were enacted by Ordinance No. 877 on April 19, 1989, which shall be deemed to be the date of enactment. Amendments after said date shall have a date of enactment corresponding to the date of adoption of each such amending ordinance.
(Ord. No. 1006, § 1, 11-19-2008)
Sec. 23-1-2. - Short title.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as "The Zoning Ordinance of the City of Brunswick, Georgia."
(Ord. No. 1006, § 1, 11-19-2008)
Sec. 23-1-3. - Interpretation.
In the interpretation of this chapter, all words used in the present tense include the future tense. All words in the plural number include the singular number, and all words in the singular number include the plural number, unless the natural construction of the wording indicates otherwise. The word "building" includes the term "structure." The word "person" includes a firm, company, partnership, association, public or private authority, or corporation. The word "shall" is mandatory, and the word "may" is permissive. The word "used" shall be deemed also to include "designed, arranged or intended to be used or occupied." The term "planning staff" refers to employees of the City of Brunswick Department of Planning, Development and Codes. The term "building official" refers to the person designated and employed as such by the City of Brunswick or to his authorized subordinate employee. The term "city commission" refers to the governing authority of the City of Brunswick.
Certain words and terms are defined for purposes of this chapter as set forth hereinafter. Words and terms which are not defined herein shall have their generally accepted meaning as shall be determined by the officials responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. Appeals of interpretative decisions may be made to the planning and appeals commission.
(Ord. No. 1006, § 1, 11-19-2008; Ord. No. 1055, § 2, 3-21-2018)
Sec. 23-1-4. - Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply to words used in this chapter:
Abandonment: The voluntary discontinuance of a use for a continuous period of at least 365 days, either by vacating the site, by cessation of operations, or by conversion to a different use.
Accessory use or structure: A use or structure customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or structure and located on the same premises with such principal use or structure.
Alley: A secondary way which affords access to the side or rear of abutting property.
Alteration of building: Any change in the supporting members of a building (such as bearing walls, columns, or girders), any addition or reduction to a building; any change in use; or any relocation of a building from one location or position to another.
Automobile service station: Buildings and premises on any parcel or lot where gasoline, oils, and greases, batteries, tires and automobile accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail (or as an operation accessory to another business), where no part of the premises is used for the storage of dismantled or wrecked vehicle parts, and also where the following services, but none other, may be rendered:
(a)
Sale and servicing of spark plugs, batteries, and distributors;
(b)
Tire repair and servicing, but no re-capping;
(c)
Replacement of mufflers and tail pipes, water hose, fan belts, brake fluid, transmission fluid, light bulbs, floor mats, seat covers, wiper blades, windshield wipers, grease retainers, and wheel bearings;
(d)
Radiator cleaning and flushing;
(e)
Washing and polishing;
(f)
Greasing and lubrication;
(g)
Exchanging fuel pumps and installing fuel lines;
(h)
Minor servicing and replacing of carburetors;
(i)
Emergency wiring repairs;
(j)
Adjusting and repair of brakes;
(k)
Minor adjustment of engines, not involving removal of the head and/or crankcase, or racing the motor;
(l)
Sale of cold drinks and packaged foods, as accessory only to the principal operation.
Boarding house: A dwelling in which at least four persons are provided with meals for compensation.
Buffer: An area used to visually separate one use from another or to shield or block noise, lights, or other characteristics or features of one use from another.
Building: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
Building line: That line which represents the distance a building or structure must be set back from a lot boundary line or a street right-of-way line or a street centerline according to the terms of this chapter. In all cases the building lines of a lot shall run parallel to such other lines.
Building official: The person designated as such by the city manager, and any subordinate, assistant or substitute employed by the city.
Building, principal: A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which said building is situated.
Care home: A rest home, nursing home, convalescent home, or similar use established and operated on a profit or non-profit basis to provide lodging and/or meals and/or domiciliary care for aged, infirm, chronically ill or convalescent persons.
Child care facility: A licensed establishment where seven or more children, other than members of the family occupying the premises, are kept and given care.
City: The City of Brunswick, Georgia, a municipal corporation, or the area located within the corporate limits of the City of Brunswick.
Clinic: An establishment where medical or dental patients who are not lodged therein overnight are admitted for examination or treatment.
Commission: The governing authority of the City of Brunswick, that is, its city commission.
Conditional use: A use specifically designated as such in this chapter, that would not be appropriate for location generally or without restriction throughout a given zoning district, but which, if controlled as to number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would in the opinion of the city commission promote the public health, safety, morals, order, comfort, convenience, appearance, prosperity or general welfare. Sometimes referred to as a "special exception."
Density: The number of dwelling units per acre of land developed or used for residential purposes. Unless otherwise clearly stated, density requirements in this chapter are expressed in dwelling units per net acre - that is, per acre of land devoted to residential use exclusive of land utilized for streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, school grounds or other public uses.
Drug care facility: A care home, group dwelling, half-way house, rehabilitation center or other facility for the care or treatment of drug or alcohol dependency.
Dwelling: A building or portion of a building arranged or designed to provide living quarters for one or more families.
Dwelling, one-family: A detached dwelling other than a mobile home designed for or occupied exclusively by one family.
Dwelling, two-family: A detached or semi-detached dwelling designed for or occupied exclusively by two families in separate dwelling units living independently of each other on a single lot.
Dwelling, group: A building or portion of a building occupied or intended for occupancy by several unrelated persons or families, but in which separate cooking facilities are not provided for such resident persons or families. The term ``group dwelling'' includes but is not limited to a rooming house, apartment hotel, fraternity or sorority house, Y.M.C.A. or Y.W.C.A. A hotel, motel or tourist home shall not be deemed to be a group dwelling as herein defined.
Dwelling, multi-family: A dwelling or dwellings on a single lot, designed for or occupied by three or more families living independently of each other, with the number of families in residence not exceeding the number of dwelling units provided.
Dwelling, townhouse or row house: One of a series of three or more attached one-family dwelling units on separate lots which may or may not have a common roof, shall not have a common exterior wall and are separated from each other by fire resistive party wall partitions extending at least from the lowest floor level to the roof.
Dwelling unit: One or more rooms connected together and constituting a separate, independent housekeeping establishment for use on a basis involving owner occupancy or rental or lease on a weekly, monthly or longer basis, with provision for cooking, eating and sleeping, physically set apart from any other rooms or dwelling units in the same structure.
Drive-in: A retail or service enterprise oriented to automobile-driving patrons wherein service is provided to consumers on the outside of the principal building. The term ``drive-in'' includes drive-in restaurants, banks, laundries, food stores, liquor stores or car washes.
Family: One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided that unless all members are related by blood or marriage, no such family shall contain over five persons, but further provided that domestic servants employed on the premises may be housed on the premises.
Family day care home: A home operated by any person who receives pay for caring for six or fewer children (other than members of the family occupying the premises) for day-time supervision and care. Such a use shall be considered a home occupation.
Garage, private: An accessory building or portion of a principal building used only for the private storage of motor vehicles as an accessory use.
Garage, public: Any garage other than a private garage which is used for storage, minor repair, rental, servicing, washing, adjusting or equipping of automobiles or other vehicles.
Garage, repair: Building and premises designed or used for purposes indicated under ``automobile service station'' and/or major commercial repairs, provided that body work and painting shall be conducted within fully enclosed buildings and provided further that self-propelled vehicles not in safe operating condition shall be stored in fully enclosed buildings.
Guest house: Living quarters situated within a detached or semi-detached accessory building located on the same premises with the principal building. Such quarters shall contain no cooking facilities, shall be used only by bona fide non-paying guests or by relatives of the occupants of the premises, and shall not be rented or otherwise occupied as a separate dwelling.
Home occupation: An occupation or profession conducted within a dwelling for pecuniary gain by members of a family residing in the dwelling, but not including the operation of a tourist home or boarding house; provided that physicians, surgeons, dentists and other members of the medical professions operating as home occupations must receive approval of their sanitary facilities by the Glynn County Board of Health.
Hotel: A facility offering transient lodging accommodations in ten rooms or more to the general public. The word ``hotel'' includes the terms ``motel,'' ``inn'' and ``tourist court.''
Junk or salvage yard: A place used for the storage, keeping, abandonment, sale or resale of junk, salvage or scrap material or for the dismantling, demolition, storage or abandonment of automobiles and other vehicles, machinery or equipment, or parts thereof.
Loading space, off-street: Space logically and conveniently located for pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used, and accessible to such vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are filled.
Lot: A parcel of land of varying size, which is designated as a single unit of property. Unless clearly indicated otherwise, the word ``lot'' when used alone in this chapter shall mean a ``zoning lot'' as herein defined.
Lot, corner: A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets or bounded on two or more adjacent sides by street right-of-way lines.
Lot depth: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines, measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
Lot, interior: A lot other than a corner lot or through lot.
Lot of record: An area designated as a separate and distinct parcel of land on a legally recorded subdivision plat or in a legally recorded deed as filed in the official records of the Clerk of Glynn Superior Court.
Lot, through: A lot having frontage on two nonintersecting streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
Lot width: The distance between side lot lines measured at the front building line.
Lot, zoning: A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a principal use or uses, together with such accessory uses, yards and open spaces as are permitted or required under the provisions of this chapter, having frontage on an officially accepted public street and having not less than the minimum area required by these regulations for a lot in the zoning district within which the parcel of land is located. A lot of record may or may not be a zoning lot.
Mobile home or manufactured home: A structure built on a permanent chassis, transportable in one or more sections, which is at least ten feet wide and has at least 600 square feet of floor area, with plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein, and which is designed to be used as a dwelling when connected to the required utilities.
Mobile home park: Premises where spaces are set aside or offered for sale or rent to accommodate four or more mobile homes for use as dwellings.
Mobile home space: A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for the accommodation of one mobile home.
Nonconforming use: A building, structure or parcel of land lawfully occupied by a use that does not conform to the regulations of the zoning district in which it is situated.
Nonconforming structure: Any structure that exists lawfully under these zoning regulations at the effective date of its adoption or amendment that could not be built under these zoning regulations by reason of restrictions on lot area, lot coverage, height, yards, location on the lot, or requirements other than use concerning the structure.
Parking, dedicated on-street: A parking space located directly in front of, or along the side or rear of a parcel that can primarily be used to serve the uses on the abutting, subject parcel. A dedicated on-street parking space can be used to count towards a parcel's minimum parking requirement when:
(a)
The parking space can clearly be devoted to the abutting parcel,
(b)
At least 50 percent of the parking space is located along the front, side or rear of the parcel,
(c)
The parking space is unobstructed by dumpsters or other semi-permanent obstructions, and
(d)
The parking space will not obstruct city operations.
Patio house: A single-family dwelling unit in which a portion of the area required for rear and side yards may be consolidated into one or more garden court spaces within the walls of the dwelling unit, on the condition that a minimum of five feet separates the property lines from the patio house along the side and rear lot lines.
Planning staff: The city employees or contractors designated by the city manager to process applications for re-zonings, conditional uses and variances.
Professional: A use or occupancy by persons engaged in rendering personal, executive, or administrative services, including accountants, architects, engineers, land surveyors, doctors and other healthcare professionals, lawyers, insurance offices and administrative offices considered professional in character.
Sign: A term which means and includes every sign, billboard, poster panel, free-standing ground sign, roof sign, projecting sign, pylon sign, illuminated sign, sign painted on a wall, window, marquee, awning or canopy, and including any announcement, declaration, demonstration, display, ribbon, banner, illustration or insignia used to advertise or promote the interests of any person when the same is placed in view of the general public traveling along a public street right-of-way.
Sign area: The area of the face of the sign formed by a perimeter consisting of a series of straight lines enclosing all parts of the sign. The area of a free-standing sign structure is the area of the face on one side only.
Sign, business identification: A sign which identifies the name of the business enterprise located on the same premises as the sign and the nature of the business conducted there. Not more than one-third of the area of a business identification sign may be devoted to commodity or service advertising.
Sign, business identification pylon: A sign erected on a pole or poles, which identifies only the name or the nature of the business conducted on the premises on which it is located.
Sign, directional: A sign containing directional information about public places owned or operated by state, federal or local governments or their agencies, publicly or privately owned natural phenomena, historic, cultural, scientific, educational, or religious sites, or areas having natural scenic beauty or being naturally suited for outdoor recreation, deemed to be in the interest of the travelling public.
Sign, illuminated: A sign illuminated by neon, fluorescent or incandescent lighting.
Sign, mobile or portable: A sign structure having no permanent attachment to a building or to the ground and which because of its design and use is not intended to become a permanent fixture on the premises where located. Such signs are manifestly designed to be moveable or transportable, whether by wheels, trailer or other means, and are frequently characterized by provisions for changeable copy.
Special exception: A use so specifically designated in this chapter, that would not be appropriate for location generally or without restriction throughout a given zoning district but which, if controlled as to number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would in the opinion of the board of zoning appeals promote the public health, safety, morals or general welfare.
Story: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
Story, half: A story in which one or more exterior walls intersect a sloping roof not more than two feet above the floor of such story.
Street: A public way for vehicular traffic which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
Street centerline: That line surveyed and monumented by the governing body as the centerline of a street, or in the event that no centerline has been so determined, that line running midway between and parallel to the general direction of the outside right-of-way lines of the street.
Structure: Anything constructed or erected which requires a fixed location on the ground or which is attached to something having a fixed location on the ground, including but not limited to buildings, mobile homes, signs, walls and fences.
Tourist home: A dwelling in which sleeping accommodations in fewer than ten rooms are provided or offered for the use of guests in return for compensation and in which meals may or may not be offered. Any dwelling in which such accommodations are offered in ten or more rooms shall be deemed to be a ``hotel'' as herein defined. The use of a dwelling as a tourist home shall not be considered an accessory use or a customary home occupation.
Trailer: Any vehicle or structure capable of moving or being moved over streets and highways on its own wheels or on a flat bed or other carrier, which is designed or utilized to provide temporary or permanent quarters for the conduct of a business, profession, trade or occupation, serve as a carrier of people, new or used goods, products or equipment, or be used as a selling, advertising or display device.
Travel trailer: A mobile travel unit on wheels, excluding a mobile home, which is designed to be pulled by or carried on a wheeled mobile vehicle. Included in this definition are pick-up campers, converted or factory assembled camper buses, tents and/or tent trailer or other similar mobile devices.
Travel trailer park or campground: Any site, lot, parcel or tract of land upon which travel trailers, travel units or tents are placed in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
Variance: A modification of the strict terms of this chapter granted by the board of zoning appeals where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not as the result of any action on the part of the property owner, a literal enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
Yard: A required open space located on the same lot as the principal building which is unoccupied and unobstructed from ground to sky except for tree or shrub growth and fences or walls subject to height limitations as indicated, except where encroachments, utilities and accessory uses are expressly permitted.
Yard, front: A yard situated between the front building line and the front lot line extending the full width of the lot.
Yard, rear: A yard situated between the rear building line and the rear lot line and extending the full width of the lot.
Yard, side: A yard situated between a side building line and a side lot line and extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
(Ord. No. 1006, § 1, 11-19-2008)
