ARTICLE XVII. - MH MOBILE HOME DISTRICT

Sec. 23-17-1. - Intent of district.
The intent of the MH mobile home district is to provide a sound and healthy residential environment sufficient to meet the unique needs of inhabitants living in mobile homes, to protect mobile home parks from encroachment by incompatible uses and to encourage the consolidation of mobile homes into mobile home parks. Any mobile home and/or mobile home park within the City of Brunswick shall henceforth be located in conformance with the regulations set forth herein.
(Ord. No. 1006, § 1, 11-19-2008)
Sec. 23-17-2. - General provisions.
Unless otherwise set forth herein, mobile homes shall be permitted only in an officially approved MH district for which a certificate of occupancy has been issued in accordance with the requirements of the building code of the City of Brunswick. In addition to mobile homes, other uses may be permitted in MH zoning districts as may be needed, in the opinion of the commission, to serve the residents of that particular MH district exclusively.
(Ord. No. 1006, § 1, 11-19-2008)
Sec. 23-17-3. - Mobile home park plan.
The mobile home park shall conform to the following requirements:
(a)
The park shall be no less than four acres in size and shall be located on a well-drained site properly graded to insure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water.
(b)
The mobile home park shall not contain more than 15 mobile home units per acre.
(c)
Mobile home spaces shall be provided consisting of an average of not less than 2,800 square feet of area, each space to be at least 30 feet wide and clearly defined.
(d)
Mobile homes shall be so harbored on each space that there shall be a minimum of 15 feet of clearance between mobile homes, provided that with respect to mobile homes parked end-to-end, the end-to-end clearance may be less than 15 feet but shall not be less than ten feet. No mobile home shall be located closer than ten feet from any building within the park or from an property line bounding the park.
(e)
Mobile homes shall be so harbored on each space so that there will be a minimum front yard setback of not less than 20 feet between the mobile home and the abutting driveway.
(f)
In addition to the space requirements for each mobile home unit as noted in subsection (c) above, each mobile home park shall have a minimum area of 20,000 square feet set aside for common open space; in the case of a park larger than the minimum four acres or in the case of expansion of the park, 2,000 square feet of common open space shall be added for each mobile home unit after the one-hundredth unit.
(g)
All mobile home spaces shall abut upon a paved surface driveway of not less than 20 feet in width, which shall have unobstructed access to a street; all mobile home spaces shall be serviced with all-weather-surface walkways of not less than three feet in width.
(h)
A suitable buffer screen shall be located along the lot lines of the park meeting the same density and screening requirements set forth in section 23-3-21.
(i)
Off-street parking, loading and other requirements shall conform to the standards set forth in article III.
(j)
Plans for driveways, drainage and utilities shall be reviewed by the city engineer, who shall advise the planning staff and the commission of his findings in writing.
(k)
Plans for an MH district shall be submitted to the Glynn County Board of Health for review and comment prior to recommendation by the planning staff. An application for an MH zoning district classification shall not be granted unless the board of health determines that all local and state codes pertaining to health and environmental sanitation in mobile home parks have been met by the applicant.
(Ord. No. 1006, § 1, 11-19-2008)
Sec. 23-17-4. - Mobile home subdivisions.
If spaces within a proposed mobile home park are to be offered for sale, lots proposed for sale must be recorded in compliance with the subdivision ordinance of the City of Brunswick. Application for subdivision may be processed in conjunction with the administrative review procedure required under this chapter to obtain authorization to develop the mobile home park. Whether spaces are proposed for sale, rental, or lease, the design of the park shall comply with the standards set forth in this article.
(Ord. No. 1006, § 1, 11-19-2008)
Sec. 23-17-5. - Revocation of license.
The city manager may revoke any license to maintain and operate a mobile home park when the licensee has been found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction of violating any provision of this chapter. after such conviction, the license may be reissued if the circumstances leading to conviction have been remedied and the park is being maintained and operated in full compliance with the law.
(Ord. No. 1006, § 1, 11-19-2008)
Sec. 23-17-6. - Posting of certificate of occupancy.
The certificate of occupancy shall be conspicuously posted in the office or on the premises of the mobile home park at all times.
(Ord. No. 1006, § 1, 11-19-2008)
Sec. 23-17-7. - Existing mobile home parks.
(a)
Mobile home parks existing at the time of the effective date of Ordinance No. 492 of the City of Brunswick, adopted February 3, 1965, as amended by Ordinance No. 517, adopted June 15, 1966, must comply at a minimum with the requirements for mobile home parks as set forth in said ordinance or the same shall be subject to removal, except that under the procedures set forth for processing special exceptions, under section 23-24-5, the following may be permitted:
(1)
A site may be less than four acres in size, as required in subsection 23-16-3(a), provided however that in no case shall the site contain less than two and one-half acres.
(2)
Common open space may be less than 20,000 square feet, as required in subsection 23-17-3(f), provided however that a minimum of 400 square feet of landscaped common open space per mobile home must be required.
(b)
Existing mobile home parks not in conformance with the provisions of this section (with the exception of those requirements waived above) shall be considered as nonconforming uses, and shall be governed by the provisions regulating such uses under section 23-3-17.
(Ord. No. 1006, § 1, 11-19-2008)
