ARTICLE IV. - PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Disabled veterans and blind persons engaging in peddling, O.C.G.A. § 43-12-1; Georgia Charitable Solicitations Act of 1988, O.C.G.A. § 43-17-1 et seq.; peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.; Transient Merchants Act of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.

Sec. 6-110. - License required.
It shall be unlawful for any peddler to engage in any business in the City unless, prior to engaging in such business, such peddler has applied and obtained a license as provided for herein. Furthermore, no peddler shall engage in any business in the City unless said peddler has complied with the provisions of Chapter 46 of Title 43 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, more particularly described as the Transient Merchant Act of Georgia.
(Ord. No. 96-12, § 2, 5-20-96)
Sec. 6-111. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Applicant means not only the person applying for a permit and license under this article but also all employees of the applicant, whether paid or not, who will be engaging in the occupation of peddler within the corporate limits of the City.
Peddler, as used in this article means any person, firm, or corporation, as principal or agent, or both, which is not a regular retail or wholesale merchant with a permanent place of business in this City, traveling by foot, wagon, automobile, truck, or any other means of conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying or transporting wares, merchandise of whatever type or character, all food stuff, or provisions, offering and exposing same for sale or making sales and delivering articles to prospective purchasers within the City, or who, without traveling from place to place shall sell or offer the same for sale from a wagon, vehicle of any type, railroad car, or any other type of vehicle or conveyance. The term "peddler" shall also mean any person traveling from house to house or business to business offering personal services such as, by way of example, lawn maintenance or lawn care, home improvement sales or services, or any other type of service or labor of whatever type of character.
(Code 1969, § 9-62; Ord. No. 187, § II, 6-7-76; Ord. No. 96-12, § 1, 5-20-96)
Sec. 6-112. - Application for permit; license.
An applicant for a permit and license under this article shall file with the City Clerk a sworn application in writing, in duplicate, on a form to be furnished by the City Clerk, which shall give the following information:
(1)
Name and description of the applicant.
(2)
Address (legal and local).
(3)
A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be sold and, in the case of products of farm or orchard, whether produced or grown by the applicant.
(4)
If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with credentials establishing the exact relationship.
(5)
The length of time for which the right to do business is desired.
(6)
If a vehicle is to be used, a brief description of the same, together with license number or other means of identification for each such vehicle.
(7)
A photograph of the applicant taken within sixty (60) days immediately prior to the date of the filing of the application, which picture shall be two (2) inches by two (2) inches, showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and distinguishing manner.
(8)
The fingerprints of the applicant and the names of at least two (2) reliable property owners of the county who will certify as to the applicant's good character and business responsibility, or, in lieu of the names of references, any other available evidence as to the good character and business responsibility of the applicant as will enable an investigator designated by the City to properly evaluate such character and business responsibility.
(9)
A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
(10)
Applicant shall file with his application a statement by a reputable physician, duly licensed by the state, dated not more than ten (10) days prior to submission of the application, certifying the applicant to be free of infectious, contagious, or communicable disease.
(11)
If the applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses of the current corporate officers, the registered office of the corporation, and a duly attested corporate resolution acknowledging the authority of the corporation to transact the type of business as set forth in the application.
(12)
If a corporation, or form of business other than a sole proprietorship, the names and addresses of all employees who will engage in the occupation of peddler on behalf of the corporation. All information for the application for permit enumerated above shall be provided for each such employee.
(13)
At the time of filing the application, a fee as determined by the City Council and listed in the schedule of fees and charges maintained in the City Clerk's office shall be paid to the City Clerk to cover the cost of the investigation.
(14)
All applicants shall submit with any application a verification from the state setting forth the sales tax identification number of the applicant.
(1)
All applicants who have otherwise complied with the terms of this article shall be permitted to peddle or solicit door to door within the City only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday of each week, excluding holidays.
(Ord. No. 187, § III, 6-7-76; Ord. No. 187-B, § I, 5-1-89; Ord. No. 187-C, 3-19-90)
Sec. 6-113. - Investigation and issuance of permit, license.
(a)
Upon receipt of an application for a permit and license required by this article, the original shall be referred to the chief of police, who shall cause such investigation of the applicant's business and moral character to be made as he deems necessary for the protection of the public good.
(b)
If as a result of such investigation the applicant's character or business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the chief of police shall endorse on such application his disapproval and his reasons for same, and shall return the application to the City Clerk, who shall notify the applicant that his application is disapproved and that no permit and license will be issued.
(c)
If as a result of such investigation, the character and business responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the chief of police shall endorse on the application his approval, execute a permit addressed to the applicant for the carrying on of the business applied for, and return such permit along with the application to the City Clerk, who shall, upon payment of the prescribed license fee, deliver to the applicant his permit and issue a license. Such a license shall contain the signature and seal of the issuing officer, and shall show the name and address of such licensee, the class of license issued and the kind of goods to be sold thereunder, the amount of the fee paid, the date of issuance and the length of time the same shall be operative, as well as the license number and other identifying description of any vehicle used in such peddling. The City Clerk shall keep a permanent record of all licenses issued. Each employee of the applicant shall be deemed a "licensee" for purposes of this section and a separate license shall be issued to each such employee, containing all of the information as herein required.
(Ord. No. 187, § IV, 6-7-76)
Sec. 6-114. - License fees.
The fee for a permit and license required by this article shall be as determined by the City Council and listed in the schedule of fees and charges maintained in the City Clerk's office.
(Ord. No. 187, § V, 6-7-76; Ord. No. 187-B, § II, 5-1-89)
Sec. 6-115. - Display.
The license issued by the City Clerk under this article to the applicant and all employees shall be conspicuously displayed upon all vehicles used by the applicant, so as to be easily seen, and shall be so displayed so as to be conspicuous during such time as such licensee is engaged in the occupation of peddling.
(Ord. No. 187, § VI, 6-7-76)
Sec. 6-116. - Exhibition of license.
Peddlers shall exhibit their licenses at the request of any citizen.
(Ord. No. 187, § X, 6-7-76)
Sec. 6-117. - Transfer.
No license issued under the provisions of this article shall be used at any time by any person other than the person to whom it was issued.
(Ord. No. 187, § VII, 6-7-76)
Sec. 6-118. - Revocation of license.
(a)
Permits and licenses issued under the provisions of this article may be revoked by the City Clerk after notice and hearing, for any of the following causes:
(1)
Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the application for license.
(2)
Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of carrying on his business as peddler.
(3)
Any violation of this article.
(4)
Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
(5)
Conduct of the business of peddling in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
(b)
Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address at least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing.
(Ord. No. 187, § XIII, 6-7-76)
Sec. 6-119. - Appeal.
Any person aggrieved by the action of the City Clerk or the chief of police in the denial of an application for permit or license under this article, or in the decision with reference to the revocation of a license, shall have the right of appeal to the City Council. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Council, within fourteen (14) days after notice of the action complained of has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written statement setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal. The Council shall set a time and place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the appellant in the same manner as provided above, for a notice of hearing on revocation. The decision and order of the Council on such appeal shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. No. 187, § XIV, 6-7-76)
Sec. 6-120. - Expiration of license.
All annual licenses issued under the provisions of this article shall expire on the thirty-first day of December in the year when issued. Other than annual licenses shall expire on the date specified in the license.
(Ord. No. 187, § XV, 6-7-76)
Sec. 6-121. - Prohibited in residential areas.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any peddler, hawker or itinerant merchant to sell or offer to sell to the general public, at retail or wholesale, from motorized or self-propelled vehicles, wagons, or any other type of conveyance, on residential streets within the City.
(b)
This section shall not be applicable to newsboys or bona fide merchants who merely deliver goods in the regular course of business into particular residential areas.
(Ord. No. 187-A, §§ I, II, 2-4-80)
Sec. 6-122. - Use of streets, public ways.
No peddler shall have any exclusive right to any location in the public streets, nor shall any peddler be permitted a stationary location, nor shall he be permitted to operate in any congested area where his operations might impede or inconvenience the public. For purposes of this article, the judgment of a police officer, exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is congested or the public impeded or inconvenienced.
(Ord. No. 187, § XI, 6-7-76)
Sec. 6-123. - Loud noises and speaking devices.
No peddler, nor any person in his behalf, shall shout, make any cryout, blow a horn, ring a bell or use any sound device, including any loud-speaking radio or sound amplifying system, upon any of the streets, alleys, parks or other public places of the City or upon any private premises in the City where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom to be capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks, or other public places, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares or merchandise which such licensee proposes to sell.
(Ord. No. 187, § VIII, 6-7-76)
Sec. 6-124. - Records.
The chief of police shall report to the City Clerk all convictions for violation of this article and the City Clerk shall maintain a record for each license issued and record the reports of violations therein.
(Ord. No. 187, § XII, 6-7-76)
Sec. 6-125. - Duty of police to enforce.
It shall be the duty of any police officer of the City to require any person seen peddling, and who is not known by such officer to be duly licensed, to produce his peddler's license and to enforce the provisions of this ordinance against any person found to be in violation of same.
(Ord. No. 187, § XI, 6-7-76)
Secs. 6-126—6-140. - Reserved.
