ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Official newspaper designated.
A newspaper having a general circulation within the City shall be designated by resolution of the City Council as the official organ of the City. Such resolution shall be published for four (4) consecutive weeks in the official organ and a copy permanently posted in a place available to the public in the City Hall.
(Code 1969, § 2-4; Ord. No. 05-24, § 1, 6-20-05)
Sec. 2-2. - Availability of City records.
(a)
Except where otherwise expressly provided, all ordinances, resolutions, minutes and records of the City and of its governing authorities, and all of the records of the various departments of the City, are and shall be treated as public records.
(b)
Any citizen shall have the right to see and read the public records on request at any reasonable time, provided this right shall not be abused. In order to avail himself of this right any person desiring to see and read any record shall point it out or sufficiently describe it to enable the officer or employee of the City in charge thereof to locate the same without unnecessary waste of time.
(Code 1969, § 2-5)
Sec. 2-3. - Filing of ordinance, resolution after first reading.
Every ordinance and resolution read the first time in the Council shall be filed with the City Clerk, who shall safely keep and retain the same as a part of the permanent records of the City, whether finally adopted or defeated.
(Code 1969, § 2-6)
Charter reference— City legislation, § 2.09; readings, § 2.10.
Sec. 2-3.5. - Paraphrasing ordinance in lieu of reading.
Whenever hereunder any ordinance or resolution is required to be read prior to its adoption or rejection, the City Attorney, in lieu of reading such ordinance or resolution verbatim, may paraphrase such ordinance or resolution, setting forth the nature and purpose of the ordinance or resolution and the legal effect thereof. A copy of the entire text of the ordinance or resolution shall be made available to the City, and any other interested parties prior to the final adoption or rejection thereof.
Sec. 2-4. - Copy of record to be furnished; fee.
It shall be unlawful to furnish any person with any copy of any City records except upon payment of a fee therefor. This section shall not prevent furnishing any officer or official of the City a copy of any record needful or necessary or proper without charge to enable him to properly discharge his duties. The amount of such fee shall be as determined by the Council and listed in the schedule of fees and charges maintained in the City Clerk's office.
(Code 1969, § 2-7)
Sec. 2-5. - City depository.
A City depository shall be designated from time to time by motion of the City Council.
(Code 1969, § 2-8)
Sec. 2-6. - City Clerk and Treasurer; offices combined.
The office of the City Clerk and City Treasurer are hereby combined. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to discharge the duties of City Clerk and the duties of City Treasurer. The title of the person discharging the duties of those combined offices shall be "City Clerk" and the salary may be referred to as for City Clerk.
(Code 1969, § 2-9)
Sec. 2-7. - City Clerk designated purchasing agent; exception.
All purchases for the City shall be made by and through the office of the City Clerk, who shall be the purchasing agent for the City unless another City employee(s) is designated as purchasing agent(s) by the City Clerk.
(Code 1969, § 2-52; Ord. No. 2011-28, § 1, 6-20-11)
Charter reference— City Clerk, § 2.08.
Sec. 2-8. - Officials, employees not to incur indebtedness without purchase order.
No official or employee of the City shall have the authority to incur any indebtedness against the City without first securing a purchase order therefor from the purchasing agent as above provided. Any such official or employee found violating this section shall be held strictly accountable therefor and liable to removal from office within the discretion of the City Council (for elected officials or Council-appointed officials) or the City Manager (all other officials and employees).
(Code 1969, § 2-54; Ord. No. 2013-11, § 6, 6-17-13)
Sec. 2-9. - Legal department.
(a)
A legal department for the City is hereby created to consist of the City Attorney and such assistants and clerks as may be appointed by or with the approval and consent of the Council.
(b)
The salary of the City Attorney, his assistants and clerks shall be fixed by the Council.
(c)
The City Attorney or an assistant City Attorney shall attend all regular meetings of the Council unless excused by the chairman, and render opinions when called upon to do so by the Mayor or the City Council. It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to see that this section is carried out. If the City Attorney is unable for any cause to attend a regular Council meeting, he shall notify an assistant City Attorney to be present at such meeting.
(Code 1969, §§ 2-20—2-22)
Charter reference— City Attorney, § 2.14.
Sec. 2-10. - Social Security benefits.
It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the City to extend the benefits of the system of Old Age and Survivors Insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act, the State Enabling Act, and amendments thereto. In pursuance of such policy, and for that purpose, the City shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1969, § 11-23)
Sec. 2-11. - Filing notice of candidacy and establishing hours when qualifying shall be conducted.
(a)
Each candidate, except a candidate nominated by nomination petition provided for in Subsection (f) of O.C.G.A. § 21-3-91, or a designee shall file a notice of candidacy in the office of the municipal superintendent:
(1)
In the case of a general election held in an odd-numbered year, no earlier than 8:30 a.m. on the second Monday in September immediately preceding the general election and no later than 4:30 p.m. on the following Friday;
(2)
In the case of a general election held in an even-numbered year, no earlier than 8:30 a.m. on the last Monday in August immediately preceding the general election and no later than 4:30 p.m. on the following Friday; and
(3)
In the case of a special election, at least twenty-five (25) days prior to the election.
The hours of qualifying each day shall be from 8:30 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. with one (1) hour allowed for the lunch break; provided, however, that if the City has normal business hours which cover a lesser period of time then the City shall conduct qualifying during such normal business hours. If a run-off is held, each candidate nominated therein or a designee shall file a notice of candidacy with the municipal superintendent within three (3) days after the holding of such election, irrespective of such three-day period's exceeding a qualification deadline prescribed in this subsection. Notice of the opening and closing dates and the hours for candidates to qualify shall be published at least two (2) weeks prior to the opening of the qualifying period.
(Ord. No. 199, § 1, 1-15-79; Ord. No. 93-11, § 1, 8-2-93; Ord. No. 95-15, § 1, 8-7-95)
Charter reference— Elections, § 5.01 et seq.
Sec. 2-12. - Qualification fees for candidates.
Not later than February 1 of any year in which a general election is to be held, and at least thirty-five (35) days prior to the special election in the case of a special election, the Mayor and City Council shall fix and publish a qualifying fee for each municipal office to be filled in the upcoming election. Such fee shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time a candidate files the candidate's notice of candidacy. Such fee shall be three (3) percent of the annual salary of the office if a salaried office. If not a salaried office, the Mayor and City Council shall be authorized to fix and publish a qualification fee not to exceed thirty-five dollars ($35.00) for such an office.
(Ord. No. 95-16, § 1, 8-7-95; Ord. No. 05-26, § 1, 6-20-05)
Secs. 2-13—2-30. - Reserved.
