Chapter 9 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Municipal courts, § 3.01 et seq.
Cross reference— Legal department, § 2-9; nuisances, ch. 10; offenses, ch. 11; traffic and motor vehicles, ch. 19.
State Law reference— Establishment and jurisdiction of municipal courts, Ga. Const. art. 6, sec. 1, par. 1; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 9-1. - Selection; qualifications; term.
The City Council shall elect a municipal court judge for the City who shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia with experience before the courts of the state. He shall hold office at the pleasure of the City Council.
(Code 1969, § 13-2)
Sec. 9-2. - Compensation.
The compensation of the judge of the municipal court shall be prescribed by the City Council at the beginning of the term of service or as soon thereafter as practicable.
(Code 1969, § 13-3)
Sec. 9-3. - Duty to preside over court.
It shall be the duty of the judge of the municipal court to preside over the municipal court wherein offenders against the laws and ordinances of the City shall be tried.
(Code 1969, § 13-4)
Sec. 9-4. - Effect of absence or disqualification.
In the event of the absence or disqualification of the judge of the municipal court, the municipal court shall be presided over by the assistant municipal court judge, City Attorney or an assistant City Attorney.
(Code 1969, § 13-5)
Sec. 9-5. - Jurisdiction.
The municipal court shall have the jurisdiction and power:
(1)
To hear and decide all prosecutions for violating any section of this Code or the penal laws and ordinances of the City, and all other controversies arising under any section of this Code or laws and ordinances of this City.
(2)
To compel the attendance of parties and witnesses and compel the production of papers.
(3)
To issue all processes and writs necessary to the exercise of its jurisdiction.
(4)
To punish contempts by fines, imprisonment or work on the streets as provided in the charter and section 1-12 of this Code.
(5)
To appoint such special officers as may be necessary to execute its writs and processes.
(6)
To prescribe rules of practice in cases where there are no rules applicable.
(7)
To sit in the Council chamber at any time for the trial of offenders, all other matters that properly come before it.
(8)
To bind over or commit to jail offenders against any of the criminal laws of the state, whenever in the course of investigation before such court a proper case therefor shall be made by the evidence.
(9)
To exercise such other powers as are necessary in the matters of its jurisdiction, or as may be conferred on it by this Code, law or ordinance.
(10)
To exercise all powers which might be performed by a magistrate under the laws of the state.
(Code 1969, § 13-6)
Sec. 9-6. - Authority to impose penalties.
The judge of the municipal court shall have full power and authority, upon conviction of an offender against the ordinances of the City or this Code, to impose all or any portion of the penalties provided in section 1-12 of this Code.
(Code 1969, § 13-7)
Sec. 9-7. - Summons; failure to appear.
(a)
Any member of the department of police, the solicitor of the municipal court and the assistant solicitor, in all cases where a complaint is made or information is obtained of any violation of this Code or other laws or ordinances of the City, shall issue a summons, directed to the accused, requiring the accused to appear before the municipal court to answer this charge. The summons shall designate the time and place of arraignment or trial and shall be signed by the member of the department of police, the solicitor or assistant solicitor issuing it and a copy thereof shall be served upon the accused either personally, by leaving the copy at the place of residence of the accused, or by certified mail, return receipt requested.
(b)
It shall be unlawful, upon proof of actual notice of the summons by defendant, for any defendant lawfully summoned to answer charges in the municipal court to either fail, neglect or refuse to appear at the time and place specified in the summons or fail to provide a satisfactory explanation for this absence. The trial may be continued to such time as the municipal court may direct, and the court shall issue an order requiring the police chief, or other members of the department of police to arrest the defendant and bring the defendant before the court to answer both the initial charges and the charge for failing to appear at trial. The chief of corrections shall keep the defendant in custody until the defendant is brought before the court, unless the defendant posts bond for appearance, as provided by law.
(Ord. No. 2011-34, § 1, 7-25-11)
