Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 2; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; exemplification of municipal minutes and other records, O.C.G.A. § 24-7-21; authority to adopt ordinances, resolutions or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated the "Code of Ordinances, City of Doraville, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1969, § 1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Mayor and City Council:
City. The words "the City" or "this City" shall be construed as if the words "of Doraville" followed it.
City Council. The term "City Council" means the Mayor and Councilmen of the City of Doraville as provided in section 2.01 of the Charter.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven (7) days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Corporation. Corporation shall include a limited liability company and other business entities.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean the County of DeKalb.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the City to do some act or make certain inspections it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, such provision shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper and proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include the persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Limits, corporation, City. The words "limits," "corporation" or "City" shall mean the corporate limits of the City, the legal boundary of the City of Doraville.
Mayor. Whenever the word "Mayor" is used it shall mean the person duly elected as Mayor of the City of Doraville as provided in the Charter of the City.
Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Municipal court judge. The term "municipal court judge" means the judge of the municipal court as authorized in section 3.02 of the Charter, the assistant municipal court judge or any person appointed by the City Council to act as the municipal court judge.
Charter reference— Municipal courts, art. III.
Name of officer. Whenever the name of an officer is given it shall be construed as though the words "of the City of Doraville" were added.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural and the plural includes the singular number.
Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall include every species of property except real property, as herein described.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. Whenever the word "premises" is used it shall mean place or places.
Property. The word "property" shall include real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or municipally owned.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one (1) place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Seal. The word "seal" shall mean the City seal, the seal of the corporation.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. The "signature" or "subscription" of a person shall include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The words "the state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the City.
Tenant, occupant. The words "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Time. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The word "week" shall be construed to mean seven (7) days.
Written or in writing. The terms "written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 1969, § 1-2; Ord. No. 06-20, § 1, 7-10-06)
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; time, O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of the section nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 1969, § 1-3)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Construction of ordinances.
The same rules shall be applied in construing ordinances of this City as are applied in construing the statutes of this state, which rules are found in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1, and the same meanings are to be given words found in the ordinances as are given similar words found in the statutes of this state.
(Code 1969, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the City or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the City or any evidence of the City's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the City.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any City officer or employee.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the City.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the City.
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Any zoning ordinance.
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat.
(12)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the City.
(13)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the City not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(14)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein.
(15)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the City.
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter. All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Sec. 1-6. - Provisions considered continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-7. - Effective date of ordinances.
Ordinances which do not provide for their taking effect at a different time shall take effect immediately after their passage.
(Code 1969, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-8. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1969, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-9. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City Council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the City Council without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1969, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-10. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code by the City Council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, City of Doraville, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: …." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Ordinances, City of Doraville, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which such section reads as follows: …." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1969, § 1-8)
Sec. 1-11. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the City to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the City Council, which will cause the law of the City of Doraville, Georgia, to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1969, § 1-9)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-12. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the City any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment in the City jail or DeKalb County Jail for not more than six (6) months, subject to all limitations contained in the Charter of the City. Confinement shall be in the Doraville City Jail, the County Jail of DeKalb County or a state-approved public works camp. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
In addition to the penalties hereinabove provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance, and may be abated by the City as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(c)
Civil citations. Whenever a provision of this Code provides for a civil citation to be issued, either by placement on a windshield of a vehicle or tacked onto the front door of a residence, it shall be done so in accordance with the following provisions. No citation issued in accordance with these provisions shall subject the recipient to any criminal penalties, including confinement or probation.
(1)
The citation shall be dated and identify with as much specificity as possible the source of the violation (i.e., the make/model/tag number of vehicle, address of the residence, appearance of animal, etc.) and location of the violation. The citation shall also state the violation, the fine and the consequences of the failure to pay the fine or request a court date to contest the alleged violation within ten (10) days of the issue date. The citation shall be signed by the officer issuing the citation.
(2)
It shall be unlawful for any person other than the owner or occupier of the residence, or owner or operator of the vehicle, to which the citation is attached, to remove any citation described in this subsection.
(3)
If the recipient of the citation chooses to contest the alleged violation, he/she shall request so in writing to the Doraville Municipal Court Clerk, stating the citation number and the violation in said notice, which shall be received by the Clerk (by facsimile, mail, or otherwise) no later than ten (10) days following the receipt of the citation. Upon receipt of the contest notice, the Court Clerk shall set the date of the hearing on said violation and notify the alleged violator of same in writing to the address listed in the contest notice.
(4)
At any hearing on the contest of the civil citation, the City shall have the burden to prove the violation by the preponderance of evidence, and shall not be deemed to be a criminal conviction and shall not affect the violator's driving or criminal record.
(5)
If the City meets its burden, the Court shall order the violator to pay the citation prior to leaving the courthouse that day. Failure to do so shall be considered contempt of court and may subject the violator to the punishment for same.
(6)
If an alleged violator has no unpaid civil citations, the City shall first issue a civil citation for applicable violations. If an alleged violator has more than one (1) unpaid civil citation, the City may charge the violator with a criminal citation, subject to all notice requirements therefor, and subject the alleged violator to all applicable criminal punishment as authorized by this Code, the City Charter and state law.
(Code 1969, § 1-10; Ord. No. 2008-29, § 1, 11-3-08; Ord. No. 2015-07 , § 1, 4-20-15)
Charter reference— Maximum penalty, contempt, § 3.03.
State Law reference— Penalty to be imposed in certain criminal and traffic cases and upon violation of bond, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to confine persons convicted of violating ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8; punishments authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1(c); limitations on home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.
Sec. 1-13. - Power to revoke permits or licenses.
Unless otherwise stated, the City Manager or designee may revoke any permit or license issued under the provisions of this Code if there has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to any material fact in the application submitted for any permit or other use, or any false statement or misrepresentation made by any representative of the applicant therefor or the permittee, during the course of the application or permitting process, or for any other reason that is specifically designated by the applicable regulation of this Code.
(Ord. No. 93-1, § 1-4-93; Ord. No. 2011-38, § 1, 11-7-11; Ord. No. 2013-11, § 1, 6-17-13)
Sec. 1-14. - Notices: service of notices.
Any notice required by this Code or the Doraville Zoning Ordinance may be served by either the City Manager or designee, an officer of the City police department, or by any other person who may be specifically authorized to give notice by a particular section or provision of the Code or the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. No. 93-3, § 1, 1-4-93; Ord. No. 2013-11, § 5, 6-17-13)
Sec. 1-15. - Hearing procedures.
modified
(a)
City Council.
(1)
Appeal. Where no other procedure to appeal an adverse decision rendered by the City Manager or designee pursuant to a City Code is otherwise designated, and where subsection (b) below is not referenced as the proper procedure to appeal the decision of the City Manager or designee to deny, suspend or revoke any license or permit governed by the provisions of this Code, said decision may be appealed to the Mayor and City Council. Such appeal shall be by written petition filed in the City Clerk's office within fifteen (15) days after the final decision which shall be given to the applicant/license holder in writing by certified mail, which shall state the reason for the denial, suspension or revocation and shall notify the applicant or certificate holder of his right to procedural review of the denial, suspension or revocation in accordance with the procedures established herein.
(2)
Scheduling. A hearing shall be conducted on each appeal within thirty (30) days of the date of filing the written petition, unless a continuance of such hearing is agreed to by the appellant and the City Council. The appellant at such hearing shall have the right to be represented by an attorney at the expense of the appellant, and to present evidence and cross-examine witnesses.
(3)
Notice. The City Clerk shall send out a written notice of the time, date and place of the hearing to the appellant no later than ten (10) days prior to the hearing. One (1) postponement may be requested by the appellant.
(4)
Witnesses. Witnesses shall testify under oath. The City Council has the discretion to limit the number of witnesses requested by the appellant or the City if more than one (1) witness is expected to testify to the same set of facts or to an excessive amount of character witnesses. The appellant may meet with the City Attorney prior to the hearing to agree on the number of witnesses.
(5)
Burden of proof. The burden of proof shall be on the City to show that the final decision was proper in accordance with the facts and appropriate law. The parties may give short opening statements, present and cross-examine witnesses and present closing statements. The rules of evidence shall not strictly apply. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Council may discuss the issues and render a final decision at that time or delay the rendering of said decision until the following regular or special-called meeting of the Council.
(6)
Findings. The Council may affirm the decision of the original decision-maker or reverse the decision only on a finding that it was based on error of fact or error in the interpretation of the relevant policy, regulation, ordinance or other applicable law.
(7)
Writ of certiorari. The findings of the City Council shall be final unless appealed within thirty (30) days of the date of the findings by certiorari to the Superior Court of DeKalb County in accordance with Georgia law.
(b)
City Manager or designated Hearing Officer.
(1)
Where the City Code references this subsection to provide hearing procedure from any final decision of the City Manager or designee on any license or permit regulated by this Code, said decision may be appealed to the City Manager or a City-Council designated Hearing Officer. Such appeal shall be by written petition filed in the City Clerk's office within fifteen (15) days after the final decision which shall be given to the applicant/license holder in writing by certified mail, which shall state the reason for the denial, suspension or revocation and shall notify the applicant or certificate holder of his right to procedural review of the denial, suspension or revocation in accordance with the procedures established herein.
(2)
Notice. After a timely receipt of the notice of appeal, the City Manager shall determine whether he/she shall hear the appeal or direct same to be heard by the designated Hearing Officer, at the sole discretion of the City Manager. The City Clerk shall schedule a hearing in front of the City Manager or City Council-designated Hearing Officer not later than thirty (30) days following the notice of appeal and shall notify the applicant or license/permit holder in writing of the date and time of said hearing no later than ten (10) days prior to the hearing.
(3)
If the hearing is in front of the City Manager, the hearing shall be informal and the rules of evidence shall not apply. The City Manager shall review the decision for the appellant and the appellant shall then have the opportunity to present evidence, documentary or testimony, as to why this decision was not proper in accordance with the provisions of the City Code. The appellant may also present exigent circumstances as to why the decision of the City Manager was overly harsh and unfair and the City Manager may take that under consideration in his decision. After presentation by the appellant, the City Manager may ask any member of the City Staff present at the hearing additional questions concerning the presentation of the appellant to gather additional evidence for the decision. The City Manager shall have the right to request the appellant to agree to some condition of the decision and, if appellant agrees, the City Manager may include that condition in the City Manager's written determination to reverse the previous decision. If the City Manager determines to reverse the previous decision with an agreed condition, the appellant shall sign the written determination to indicate his/her agreement with the condition. The appellant may be represented by an attorney.
(4)
Burden of proof. If the hearing is in front of an appointed Hearing Officer, the City shall have the burden of proof by preponderance of the evidence that the denial, suspension or revocation was proper. The applicant or license/permit holder shall have the right to retain an attorney to represent him at the hearing, at the applicant or license/permit holder's expense.
(5)
Hearing Officer hearing. The City and the applicant or license/permit holder shall have the right to an opening statement, present evidence and cross-examine witnesses, and deliver a short closing statement. The rules of evidence shall not strictly apply and the Hearing Officer shall have discretion to exclude excessive or duplicative witness testimony or documentary evidence. The Hearing Officer shall make the decision to affirm or reverse the determination of the original decision maker no later than five (5) business days following the hearing and shall notify the applicant or license/permit holder of his decision in writing. The Hearing Officer's decision shall be final. The Hearing Officer may reverse the decision only on a finding that it was based on error of fact or error in the interpretation of the relevant policy, regulation, ordinance or other applicable law.
(6)
Writ of certiorari. The findings of the City Manager or Hearing Officer shall be final unless appealed within thirty (30) days of the date of the findings by certiorari to the Superior Court of DeKalb County in accordance with Georgia law.
(7)
Hearing Officer qualifications. The Hearing Officer shall be an attorney with not less than three (3) years experience in the practice of law, licensed by the State of Georgia and with an office no closer than five (5) miles outside the geographic boundaries of the City of Doraville, Georgia. The City Clerk shall maintain a list of qualified Hearing Officers, and such Officers shall be appointed consecutively according to such list based upon availability. The compensation of such Hearing Officers shall not exceed one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per hour.
(Ord. No. 2011-04, § 1, 2-22-11; Ord. No. 2011-38, § 2, 11-7-11; Ord. No. 2013-11, §§ 2, 3, 6-17-13; Ord. No. 2021-30 , § 1, 4-12-21)
Editor's note— Section 2 of Ord. No. 2011-38, adopted November 7, 2011, changed the title of § 1-15 from "Hearing procedure for regulated businesses" to "Hearing procedures."
