ARTICLE III. - OBSCENITY AND RELATED OFFENSES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 11-71. - General prohibition.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, lend, rent, lease, give, advertise, publish, exhibit or otherwise disseminate to any person any obscene material of any description, knowing the obscene nature thereof, or to offer to do so; provided, the word "knowing" as herein used shall be deemed to be either actual or constructive knowledge of the obscene contents of the subject matter; and a person has constructive knowledge of the obscene contents if he has knowledge of facts which would put a reasonable and prudent man on notice as to the suspect nature of the material.
(Ord. No. 172, § I(a), 5-20-77)
Sec. 11-72. - Determination of obscenity.
(a)
Material is obscene under this article if, considered as a whole and applying community standards, its predominant appeal is to prurient interest, that is, a shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex or excretion, and utterly without redeeming social value and if, in addition, it goes substantially beyond customary limits of candor in describing or representing such matters. Undeveloped photographs, molds, printing plates and the like shall be deemed obscene notwithstanding that processing or other acts may be required to make the obscenity patent or to disseminate it.
(b)
Material, not otherwise obscene, may be obscene under this section if the distribution thereof, deemed or the offer to do so, or the possession with the intent to do so is a commercial exploitation of erotica solely for the sake of their prurient appeal.
(Ord. No. 172, § I(b), (c), 5-20-77)
Sec. 11-73. - Premises declared nuisance.
The use of any premises in violation of any of the provisions of this article shall constitute a public nuisance.
(Ord. No. 172, § II, 5-20-77)
Sec. 11-74. - Materials declared contraband.
Any materials declared to be obscene by the provisions of this article and advertisements for such materials are hereby declared to be contraband.
(Ord. No. 172, § III, 5-20-77)
Sec. 11-75. - Motion pictures.
It shall be unlawful for the owner, manager or agent in charge of any motion picture theatre in the City to exhibit or allow to be exhibited in such theatre any indecent, immoral or obscene motion picture.
(Ord. No. 172, § IV, 5-20-77)
State Law reference— Distributing obscene materials, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-80.
Secs. 11-76—11-85. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DISSEMINATION TO MINORS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Sale and distribution of harmful materials to minors, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-101 et seq.

Sec. 11-86. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Harmful to minors means that quality of any description or representation, in any form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sado-masochistic abuse, when it:
(1)
Predominantly appeals to the prurient, shameful or morbid interest of minors, and
(2)
Is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for minors, and
(3)
Is utterly without redeeming social importance for minors.
Knowingly means having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or reasonable ground for belief which warrants further inspection or inquiry or both:
(1)
The character and content of any material described herein, which is reasonably susceptible of examination by the defendant, and
(2)
The age of the minor, provided, however, that an honest mistake shall constitute an excuse from liability hereunder if the defendant made a reasonable bona fide attempt to ascertain the true age of such minor.
Minor means any unmarried person under the age of eighteen (18) years old.
Nudity means the showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a full opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
Sado-masochistic abuse means flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one so clothed.
Sexual conduct means acts of masturbation, homosexuality, sodomy, sexual intercourse or physical contact with a person's clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks or, if such person be female, breast.
Sexual excitement means the condition of human male or female genitals when in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
(Ord. No. 173, § I, 5-20-74)
Sec. 11-87. - Printed, pictorial matter.
It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to sell, deliver, distribute, display for sale or provide to a minor, or knowingly to possess with an intent to sell, deliver, distribute, display for sale or to provide to a minor, either or both of the following:
(1)
Any picture, photograph, drawings, sculpture, motion picture film or similar visual representation or image of a person or portion of the human body, or any replica, article or device having the appearance of either male or female genitals which depicts nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sado-masochistic abuse or which is harmful to minors.
(2)
Any book, pamphlet, magazine, printed matter, however produced, or sound recording which contains any matter enumerated in subsection (1) above, or explicit and detailed verbal descriptions or narrative accounts of sexual excitement, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic abuse and which, taken as a whole, is harmful to minors.
(Ord. No. 173, § II, 5-20-74)
Sec. 11-88. - Motion pictures, shows, etc.
It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to exhibit to a minor or knowingly to provide to a minor an admission ticket or pass or knowingly to admit a minor to premises whereon there is exhibited, a motion picture, show, or other presentation which, in whole or in part, depicts nudity, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic abuse and which is harmful to minors.
(Ord. No. 173, § III, 5-20-74)
Sec. 11-89. - Exclusions.
No person shall be guilty of violating this division:
(1)
Where such person had a reasonable cause to believe that the minor involved was eighteen (18) years old or more, and such minor exhibited to such person a draft card, driver's license, birth certificate or other official or apparently official document purporting to establish that such minor was eighteen (18) years old or more.
(2)
If the person was the parent or guardian of the minor, or if the minor was accompanied by his parent or guardian, or the parent or guardian has in writing waived the application of this division either generally or with reference to the particular transaction.
(3)
If such person is a bona fide school, museum or public library, or is acting in his capacity as an employee of such organization, or a retail outlet affiliated with serving the educational purposes of such organization.
(Ord. No. 173, § IV, 5-20-74)
Secs. 11-90—11-100. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PUBLIC DISPLAY OF ADULT MAGAZINES

Sec. 11-101. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Nudity means the showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a full opaque covering, or showing of the female breasts with less than a full opaque covering of any portion thereof below the top of the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
Sexual conduct means acts of masturbation, homosexuality, sexual intercourse or physical contact with a person's clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks or, if such person be a female, breasts either by one (1) individual or two (2) or more individuals.
(Ord. No. 171, § I, 5-20-74)
Sec. 11-102. - Display restricted.
It shall be unlawful for any person to display for sale to the public any adult magazine, the cover of which depicts any form of nudity or sexual conduct. The outer covering or jacket of such magazines must be covered by an opaque wrapper or other opaque covering which completely covers any and all depictions of nudity or sexual conduct. Such a covering or wrapper is not required when the merchant offering such adult magazines to the public stores and keeps such materials hidden from the general public view and where access to such materials for purchase is by request of the consumer.
(Ord. No. 171, § II, 5-20-74)
Secs. 11-103—11-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - RESERVED[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Section 1 of Ord. No. 2013-07, adopted April 15, 2013, repealed div. 4, §§ 11-111, 11-112, which pertained to public performances, and derived from Ord. No. 202, adopted Jan. 30, 1980.

Secs. 11-111—11-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - FOOD SERVICE AND ENTERTAINMENT[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Section 1 of Ord. No. 2013-07, adopted April 15, 2013, repealed former §§ 11-121—11-125, which pertained to definition; interaction with customers generally; solicitation of customers; mingling prohibited; display of human torso; and derived from Ord. No. 201, adopted Jan. 30, 1980; and Ord. No. 204, §§ I—IV, adopted March 7, 1980.

Secs. 11-121—11-130. - Reserved.
Sec. 11-131. - Posting of health inspections required.
The owner, lessee, occupant or tenant of any food establishment within the City which is inspected and rated by the DeKalb County Health Department or the City shall prominently display the current results of such inspections in a prominent location at or near the entrance to such premises.
(Ord. No. 96-5, § 1, 3-18-96)
Secs. 11-132—11-150. - Reserved.
