PART I - CHARTER[1]
CITY OF DORAVILLE
CHARTER
Local Act No. 7
To reincorporate the City of Doraville in the County of DeKalb; to create a new Charter for said City; to provide the corporate powers and prescribe the corporate limits of said City; to provide for the government of said City; to provide for a City Council; to provide for a Mayor; to provide for salaries of elected officials; to provide for filling vacancies; to provide for suspension of elected officials upon indictment charging felonious act or acts; to provide for a City Clerk; to provide legislative procedure for said City; to provide for the organization and administration of said City; to provide for public hearing rights for City employees who lose their jobs; to provide for a City attorney; to establish a municipal court; to provide for appointment of a judge or judges of said court; to prescribe the jurisdiction of said court; to provide for powers and maximum penalties in said court; to provide for arrest by police officers; to provide accused persons with right to bail or recognizance; to provide for authority of said court, to accept cash or property in lieu of surety bond; to provide for forfeiture of cash, property, or bail bond; to provide for court costs and rules for the court; to provide for the fiscal administration of said City; to provide for taxing authority; to provide for tax due dates and tax bills; to provide for the collection of delinquent taxes; to provide for special assessments, licenses and occupational taxes, and garbage collection service charges; to provide for transfer of executions; to provide for authority to issue general obligation bonds and revenue bonds; to provide for a budget; to provide for the election of Mayor and councilmen; to provide for notice of candidacy; to provide for qualifications of the Mayor and councilmen; to provide for qualifications of electors; to provide for the time and place of elections; to provide for two additional councilmen so that the City Council shall become a six-member council; to provide for City election districts; to provide for at large elections throughout the City; to provide for required majority vote to be elected; to provide for terms of office of the Mayor and councilmen; to provide for absentee ballots; to provide severability; to provide for a referendum on this Act in the City; to repeal specific laws; to repeal conflicting laws; to provide for effective dates; and for other purposes.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Charter of the City of Doraville, approved by the Georgia General Assembly on October 13, 1971. It may be cited as "1971 Ga. Laws, extra sess., page 2154." Amendments to the Charter are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision derives unchanged from the original Charter. A uniform system of punctuation and capitalization has been used. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation and material in brackets [ ] has been added for clarity.

ARTICLE I. - CHARTER, CORPORATE POWERS, AND CORPORATE BOUNDARIES

Section 1.01. - [Enactment, repealer.]
This Act shall constitute the whole charter of the City of Doraville, Georgia, repealing and replacing the charter as provided by Georgia Laws of 1871-2, p. 104; Georgia Laws of 1874, p. 191; Georgia Laws of 1929, p. 1039; Georgia Laws of 1947, p. 1263; Georgia Laws of 1949, p. 567, p. 738; Georgia Laws of 1955, p. 2221; Georgia Laws of 1958, p. 3039, p. 3058; Georgia Laws of 1968, p. 3336; Georgia Laws of 1969, p. 2501; and Georgia Laws of 1970, p. 2865, as amended. The City of Doraville, Georgia, in the County of DeKalb, and the inhabitants thereof, shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the name and style of Doraville, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession, may contract and be contracted with, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all courts of law and equity, and in all actions whatsoever, and may have and use a common seal and change it at pleasure.
Section 1.02. - Corporate powers.
Be it further enacted, that the corporate powers of the City of Doraville, to be exercised by the City Council, may include the following:
(1)
To levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation;
(2)
To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions, and to license and regulate such privileges, occupations, trades and professions, and to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses and taxes;
(3)
To make appropriations for the support of the government of the City, to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia, and to provide for the payment of expenses of the City;
(4)
To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the City and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized by this charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(5)
To acquire, dispose of and hold in trust or otherwise, any real, personal or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the corporate limits of the City;
(6)
To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests or grants from any source for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the City and the general welfare of its citizens, on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose;
(7)
To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the City, for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the council, under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933, or under other applicable public acts as are or may be enacted;
(8)
To acquire, own, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell, obtain and dispose of public utilities, including but not limited to a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric power plants, transportation facilities, public airports and any other public utility; to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations and penalties and to provide for the withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay same and the manner in which such remedies shall be enforced; provided, however, the powers and authority granted by this section or by any other provision of this charter to fix rates and regulations respecting utilities shall not be construed to authorize any regulation of public utilities which is in conflict with the general laws of the State of Georgia;
(9)
To grant franchises and make contracts for public utilities and public services upon such terms and conditions as the Mayor and City Council may prescribe;
(10)
To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon, or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of and light roads, alleys and walkways within the corporate limits of the City without notification;
(11)
To grant franchises and rights-of-way throughout the streets and roads, and over the bridges and viaducts, for the use of public utilities;
(12)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment, airports, hospitals and charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservational, sport, curative, correctional, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities; and any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate limits of the City; and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933, or other applicable public acts, as are or may be enacted;
(13)
To require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands; and to enact ordinances establishing the terms and conditions under which such repairs and maintenance shall be effected, including the penalties to be imposed for failure to do so;
(14)
To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the City and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(15)
To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(16)
To regulate and prohibit pollution of natural resources, including pollution of air and water, within or without the corporate limits of the City, to the fullest extent allowed by the laws and Constitutions of the State of Georgia and the United States of America, as amended;
(17)
To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge or restrict same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general laws, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to fire fighting, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation thereof. To establish and provide funds for an independent fire department for the City of Doraville, or to contract with governmental or other entities to provide fire protection for the City and its inhabitants;
(18)
To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which may or might become dangerous or detrimental to the public;
(19)
To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard and paper and to provide for the sale or other disposition of such items;
(20)
To levy, fix, assess and collect a garbage, refuse and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax or fee for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the City, from all individuals, firms and corporations residing in or doing business therein or benefitting from such services to the fullest extent allowed by Georgia law; to enforce the payment of such service charges, taxes or fees; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges, taxes or fees;
(21)
To levy a fee, charge or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewerage system, and to levy on the users of sewers and the sewerage system a sewer service charge, fee or sewer tax for the use of the sewers; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of same;
(22)
To charge, impose and collect a sewer connection fee or fees, and to charge the same from time to time; such fees to be levied on the users connecting with the sewerage system;
(23)
To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental, or likely to be detrimental, to the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare and safety of the inhabitants of the City and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(24)
To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property;
(25)
To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the City and the administration and use of same by the public, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(26)
To establish minimum standards for and to regulate building construction and repair, electrical wiring and equipment, gas installation and equipment, plumbing and housing for the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare and safety of inhabitants of the City and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(27)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the municipal court shall work out such sentence in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains and squares in the City; or to provide for commitment of such persons to any county work camp or jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials;
(28)
To regulate and license or prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same, if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; also to provide for their disposition by sale, gift or humane destruction, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; to provide punishment for violation of ordinances enacted hereunder;
(29)
To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking, upon or across the streets, roads, alleys and walkways in the City;
(30)
To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the City; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; to require seat belts and other safety devices in such vehicles; and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicles;
(31)
To provide and maintain a system of pensions and retirement for officers and employees of the City;
(32)
To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements;
(33)
To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms and corporations providing for services to be furnished and payments to be made therefor;
(34)
To create, alter or abolish department, boards, offices, commissions and agencies of the City, and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to same;
(35)
To make, ordain and establish such bylaws, ordinances, rules and regulations as shall appear necessary for the security, welfare, convenience and interest of the City and the inhabitants thereof, and for preserving the health, peace, order and good government of the City;
(36)
To provide penalties for violations of any ordinance adopted pursuant to the authority of this charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(37)
To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience or general welfare of the City and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia. No enumeration of particular powers in this charter shall be held to be exclusive of others nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the Constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia;
(38)
To levy taxes and to make appropriations for the purpose of advertising said City and its advantages and resources so as to bring new capital and commercial and manufacturing and other enterprises into the City, and also to levy taxes and to make payment from the general revenues and funds of the City for the support of public hospitals and libraries;
(39)
To provide the City Council shall have full power and authority to regulate the running of all railroad trains, bus lines in the City, as well as terminals, to prescribe the manner in which the same shall be run, and the rates of speed and to provide for the necessary terminal.
To permit, prevent, regulate or otherwise control the construction, operation, expansion, extension, alteration or relocation of any railroad yard for the switching or shunting of railroad cars or the marshaling or the classification of railroad cars or the storage or parking of railroad cars, engines or trains of cars and or engines.
To permit, prevent, regulate or otherwise control the construction, operation, expansion, extension, alteration or relocation of all freight depots or stations, loading platforms, sheds, cars or locomotive shops, railroad car repair shops or storage yards.
(40)
To provide for a feeder transportation system which may be operated in cooperation with any transit system, mass transit system or other feeder transit system of any other City, county, authority or political subdivision, or public or private corporation or association; and to make enforceable contracts to carry out such purpose;
(41)
To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists within or without the City, and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health or well-being of the citizens of the City of Doraville;
(42)
To establish and provide funds for a police department for the City of Doraville, or to contract with any governmental or other entity to provide police protection for the City and its inhabitants. The police department of the City shall have the power to enforce all valid ordinances of the City and laws of the State of Georgia.
Section 1.03. - Ordinances.
Be it further enacted, that all ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations, now in force in said City, not inconsistent with this act are hereby declared valid and of force until amended or repealed by the council of said City.
Section 1.04. - Construction.
The powers of the City shall be construed liberally and in favor of the City. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers in this charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general power of the City as stated in this charter. It is the intention hereof to grant the City full power and right to exercise all governmental authority necessary for the effective operation and conduct of the City within its corporate limits and to conduct all its affairs.
Section 1.05. - City boundaries.
Be it further enacted, that the corporate boundaries of the City of Doraville shall be as described in Appendix A, which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
ARTICLE II. - CITY GOVERNMENT; ORGANIZATION; PERSONNEL

Section 2.01. - Establishment of City government.
Be it further enacted, that the corporate governmental powers of the City of Doraville shall be vested in a City Council to be composed of a Mayor and councilmen as described in the next succeeding Article of this charter. The councilmen shall represent the respective districts in which they reside, but the Mayor and councilmen shall be elected at large by the qualified voters of the City, and shall exercise their powers in the manner prescribed by this charter, the Constitution and applicable laws of the State of Georgia, or if not so prescribed, then in such manner as prescribed by the duly established ordinances of the City of Doraville.
Section 2.02. - City Council.
Be it further enacted, that the governing body of said City shall consist of six (6) councilmen and a Mayor and shall so remain, as hereinafter provided. In the City Council shall be vested all corporate, legislative, and other powers of the City, except as otherwise provided in this act. The council shall hold regular public meetings at a stated time and place as provided by ordinance. The council shall meet in special session on call of the Mayor or on call of the Mayor pro-tem and two (2) councilmen and noticed at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the meeting pursuant to the requirements of the Georgia Open Meetings Act. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted at a special called meeting. The council shall exercise its powers in public meetings. A majority of the council shall constitute a quorum; the Mayor shall be included for the purposes of establishing a quorum. The council may, by ordinance, adopt rules and bylaws to govern the conduct of its business, including procedures for compelling the attendance of absent members. The council may provide by ordinance for punishment for contemptuous behavior conducted in the presence of the council.
(Ord. No. 2013-03, § 1, 3-4-13, eff. 7-1-13)
Section 2.03. - Mayor as Presiding Officer.
(a)
Be it further enacted, that the Mayor shall:
(1)
Preside at meetings of the Council and set the Agenda therefor after receiving input from members of the City Council, the City Manager and the public;
(2)
Have a vote only in the case of a tie vote by Councilmembers, but shall not have veto power;
(3)
Shall be the ceremonial head of the City; shall sign ordinances and resolutions on their final passage;
(4)
May obtain short-term loans in the name of the City when authorized by the Council to do so;
(5)
Shall sign deeds, bonds, orders, checks, warrants and contracts and other obligations of the City when authorized by the Council to do so;
(6)
Make all appointments of Officers as provided by this Charter, subject to confirmation by the City Council;
(7)
Serve in a part-time capacity and be compensated accordingly; and
(8)
Shall perform such other duties imposed by state or federal law, this Charter and duly adopted ordinances not in conflict with this Charter.
(b
(1)
For the four-year term of office beginning January 1, 2012, the office of Mayor shall be a full-time position until 12:01 a.m. on July 1, 2013. From 12:01 a.m. on July 1, 2013, through the end of such term of office, the office of Mayor shall be a part-time position. Thereafter, the office of Mayor shall be a part-time position.
(2)
The qualifying fee for the term of office of Mayor beginning January 1, 2012, shall be paid pursuant to Code Section 21-2-131 of the O.C.G.A. for a full-time position. The qualifying fee for the term of office of Mayor beginning January 1, 2016, shall be calculated on the basis of a part-time position in accordance with Code Section 21-2-131 of the O.C.G.A.
(Act No. 143, § 1, 11-8-11; Ord. No. 2013-03, § 2, 3-4-13, eff. 7-1-13)
Section 2.04. - Mayor pro-tem.
Be it further enacted, that the council shall elect from its membership a Mayor pro-tem for a term of one (1) year by the end of January of each calendar year. Upon the council's failure to elect a Mayor pro-tem by the end of January, the incumbent councilman not up for election at the previous election who received the highest number of votes, when last elected, shall be declared the Mayor pro-tem. The Mayor pro-tem shall perform the duties of the Mayor during his or her absence from the City or his disability.
(Ord. No. 2013-03, § 3, 3-4-13, eff. 7-1-13)
Section 2.05. - Vacancy in office of Mayor or Councilmember.
(a)
Be it further enacted, that a vacancy shall exist if the Mayor or a councilmember resigns, dies, moves his or her residence from the City, or is absent from four consecutive regular meetings of the governing authority, except if granted a leave of absence by the Council, which leave shall be entered upon the minute books; or if he or she is adjudged incompetent or is convicted of malfeasance in office, or of a felony, or any violation of election laws.
(b)
If less than six months remain in the unexpired term of the vacated council seat, that seat shall remain open until it expires. If more than six months remain in the unexpired term of the vacated council seat, the vacated seat shall be filled by the next available special election ballot, so long as the appropriate statutory and reasonable period of time remains between the vacating of the council seat and the conducting of the special election, including the appropriate qualifying period and proper call of the election. If no such appropriate time period is available until the next special election and the following appropriate date of a special election is less than six months prior to the expiration of the term of the vacated council seat, that seat may remain open until it expires.
(c)
At no time shall there be more than one councilmember vacancy; and, if a second vacancy occurs on the council, a special election shall be held within a period of 90 days after the second vacancy occurs pursuant to a call of a special election as provided by this charter for both vacancies, so long as the appropriate statutory and reasonable period of time remains between the vacating of the council seat and the conducting of the special election, including the appropriate qualifying period and proper call of the election. If no such appropriate time period is available within 90 days, the special election for said seats shall be conducted at the next available special or general election date.
(d)
In the event a vacancy should occur in the office of the Mayor, a special election shall be called and held in the manner prescribed by Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," as it now exists or may hereafter be amended.
(Act No. 503, § 1, 11-8-11)
Editor's note— Act. No. 503, § 1, passed at the election of Nov. 8, 2011, changed the title of § 2.05 from "Vacancy in office of Mayor or councilmen" to "Vacancy in office of Mayor or Councilmember."
Section 2.06. - Suspension of elected officials upon indictment charging felonious act or acts.
Whenever an elected official of the City of Doraville shall be indicted by any grand jury for any felonious act or acts he shall be suspended immediately upon the presentation of said indictment from all duties as an elected official until such time as he has been cleared of the charges. No official who has been suspended from office shall receive any compensation from the City during the period of his suspension, and the compensation of any such official shall be forfeited if he is convicted on any of the charges for which he was indicted. However, if any such official is acquitted of the charges filed against him, he shall be reinstated in office, and shall be entitled to full compensation for the time he was suspended from office. Suspension shall not be construed as creating a vacancy in office; however, once convicted, section 2.05 shall apply.
Section 2.07. - Compensation and expenses.
Be it further enacted that, subject to Georgia Law, the Mayor shall receive a salary as fixed by Ordinance of the City Council after a public hearing. The Mayor, when authorized by the Council and upon the presentation of itemized vouchers shall receive his or her actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of his or her duties of office, such expenses to be capped by Ordinance. Be it further enacted that the Mayor Pro Tem and each other member of the City Council shall receive a salary as fixed by Ordinance of the Mayor and City Council after a public hearing. Each Councilmember, when authorized by the Council and upon the presentation of itemized vouchers, shall receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office, such expenses to be capped by Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 178, § 2, 11-4-74; Ord. No. 214, § 2.07, 9-21-81; Ord. No. 221, § I, 8-1-83; Ord. No. 224, § I, 9-19-83; Ord. No. 221-A, § I, 10-6-86; Ord. No. 93-10(C), § 1, 9-7-93; Ord. No. 98-13, § 1, 9-8-98; Ord. No. 98-13A, § 1, 9-8-98; Ord. No. 07-07, § 1, 8-7-07; Ord. No. 2011-30, § 1, 8-1-11; Ord. No. 2011-31, § 1, 8-15-11; Ord. No. 2013-03, § 4, 3-4-13, eff. 7-1-13)
Section 2.07A. - City Manager.
(a)
The City shall be authorized to employ a City Manager whose compensation shall be established by the Council either by Resolution or adoption of a duly negotiated Employment Agreement. The manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of his or her executive and administrative qualifications. The City Manager shall be in charge of the day-to-day operations and be the Chief Executive Officer of the City, responsible to the City Council for the administration of all city affairs placed in the manager's charge by or under this Charter or state law. Specifically, the duties of the City Manager shall be as follows:
(1)
Appoint and, when necessary for the good of the City, suspend or remove all officers and employees of the City subject to this Charter and applicable personnel policies and procedures, which the Mayor and Council had been heretofore empowered to appoint and discharge, except the City Attorney and municipal judges, who shall be appointed and removed by the Mayor and Council. The City Manager may authorize any administrative officer who is subject to the manager's direction and supervision to exercise these powers with respect to subordinates in that officer's department, office, or agency;
(2)
With the consent of the Mayor and City Council, the City Manager may serve as the head of one or more departments, offices, or agencies or may appoint an administrative officer as the head of two or more of them or may combine the functions of any offices specified in this Charter which may be appointed by the City Manager.
(3)
Direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices, and agencies of the City except as otherwise provided by law or this charter;
(4)
Attend all City Council meetings. The City Manager shall have the right to take part in discussion but shall not have the right to vote. The City Manager shall be entitled to notice of all special called meetings;
(5)
See that all laws, provisions of this Charter, and acts of the City Council subject to enforcement by the City Manager or by officers subject to the manager's direction and supervision are faithfully executed;
(6)
Prepare and submit the annual operating budget and the capital budget to the City Council;
(7)
Submit to the City Council and make available to the public a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the City as of the end of each fiscal year;
(8)
Make such reports as the City Council may require concerning the operations of city departments, offices, and agencies subject to the manager's direction and supervision;
(9)
Keep the City Council fully advised as to the financial condition and future needs of the City;
(10)
Make and execute all lawful contracts on behalf of the City as to matters within the City Manager's level of authorization as established by the City Council to the extent that such contracts are funded in the City's budget, except as may otherwise be provided by law; provided that no contract purchase or obligation requiring a budget amendment shall be valid and binding until after approval of the City Council;
(11)
Sign all orders, checks, and warrants for payment of money within the City Manager's level of authorization as established by the City Council to the extent that such are funded in the City's budget, except such as may be otherwise provided by law; provided, however, that no such order, check or warrant requiring a budget amendment shall be valid and binding until after approval of the City Council;
(12)
Make recommendations to the City Council concerning the affairs of the City;
(13)
The City Manager, with the approval of the City Council, may consolidate any positions under the direction and management of the City Manager or may assign the functions of any one or more of such positions to the holder or holders of any other positions. The City Manager may also, with the approval of the City Council, perform all or any part of the functions of any of said positions or offices in lieu of the appointment of other persons to perform the same; and(14) Perform such other duties that are specified by state law or this Charter or required by the City Council.
(b)
The Council shall require the City Manager, before entering upon discharge of his duties, to give good and sufficient bond in an amount to be decided by the Council but not less than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), said bond payable to the City of Doraville for the faithful performance of his duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriations or unlawful expenditures. Said surety bond shall be obtained from a surety company licensed to do business in the State of Georgia and approved by the Council, and the premium thereon shall be paid by the City.
(c)
No member of the City Council shall be appointed City Manager during the term of office for which he or she is elected or for a period of two (2) years thereafter.
(d)
By a letter filed with the City Clerk, the City Manager shall designate, subject to approval of the City Council, a qualified city officer or employee to exercise the powers and perform the duties of City Manager during the manager's temporary absence or disability. The City Council may revoke such designation at any time and appoint another officer of the City to serve until the City Manager returns.
(e)
Except for the purposes of inquiries and investigations as authorized by a majority vote of the Council, the Mayor, the City Council, and members of the City Council shall deal with city officers and employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of the City Manager solely through the manager; and neither the Mayor, the City Council, nor individual members of the City Council shall give orders to any such city officer or employee, either publicly or privately. All employees and officers shall be permitted to provide information to any member of the City Council or member of the public upon request.
(f)
The City Manager shall not be eligible for election as a member of the City Council of Doraville for a period of two (2) years after termination of service as City Manager.
(g)
The City Council may remove the manager from office in accordance with the following procedures:
(1)
The City Council shall adopt by affirmative vote of a majority of all its members a preliminary resolution which must state the reasons for removal and may suspend the manager from duty for a period not to exceed 45 days. A copy of the resolution shall be delivered promptly to the manager;
(2)
Within five (5) days after a copy of the resolution is delivered to the manager, the manager may file with the City Council a written request for hearing by the City Council. This hearing shall be held within thirty (30) days after the request is filed. The manager may file with the Council a written reply not later than five (5) days before the hearing; and,
(3)
If the manager has not requested a hearing within the time specified in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the City Council may adopt a final resolution for removal, which may be made effective immediately, by an affirmative vote of a majority of all its members. If the manager has requested a hearing, the City Council may adopt a final resolution for removal after said hearing, which may be made effective immediately, by an affirmative vote of no less than four (4) Councilmembers.
(4)
The manager shall continue to receive his or her salary until the effective date of a final resolution of removal.
(Act No. 143, § 1, 11-8-11; Ord. No. 2013-03, § 5, 3-4-13, eff. 7-1-13)
Section 2.08. - City Clerk.
Be it further enacted, that the City Manager shall appoint a City Clerk, subject to confirmation of the Mayor and City Council. The City Clerk shall be responsible for keeping and preserving the City seal and all records of the Council; shall be responsible for maintaining a journal of proceedings at Council Meetings, and the proceedings at meetings of other City boards, agencies, or commissions, including the names of members present and absent, the vote of each member on each question and each motion considered, and the text of each Resolution or Ordinance considered; preparing and certifying the copies of official records in his or her office, for which fees may be prescribed by ordinance; and performing such other duties as may be required by the City Manager.
The Council shall require the clerk, before entering upon discharge of his duties, to give good and sufficient bond in an amount to be decided by the council but not less than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), said bond payable to the City of Doraville for the faithful performance of his or her duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriations or unlawful expenditures. Said surety bond shall be obtained from a surety company licensed to do business in the State of Georgia and approved by the council, and the premium thereon shall be paid by the City.
(Ord. No. 2013-03, § 6, 3-4-13, eff. 7-1-13)
Section 2.09. - City legislation.
Be it further enacted, that any action of the council, having a regulatory or penal effect or required to be done by ordinance under this act, shall be done only by ordinance. Each resolution and ordinance shall be in written form before being voted upon. The affirmative vote of at least a majority of the quorum shall be required to pass any resolution or ordinance. After adoption of ordinances, the City Clerk shall number ordinances consecutively, in the order of their final adoption, and shall copy them into a permanent record book used solely for this purpose; and the City Clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of numbers and a separate record book. The original copies of all ordinances, resolutions, and motions shall be filed and preserved by the City Clerk.
Section 2.10. - Readings.
Be it further enacted, that all ordinances before they are passed shall be read twice, and each reading had at separate consecutive regular meetings on separate days; provided that both readings of said ordinances may be had at the first meeting, either regular or special, upon unanimous consent of the council to that effect; provided, further, that ordinances or resolutions appropriating or involving the expenditure of money or for other than current expenses shall be read twice as above provided and the rules shall not be suspended.
Section 2.11. - Organization.
Be it further enacted, that the City government shall continue as presently organized unless and until otherwise provided by ordinance or this charter. The council by such ordinance, and upon recommendation of the City Manager, may establish, abolish, merge or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the City; may provide that the same person shall fill a number of offices and positions of employment; may transfer or change the functions and duties of offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the City; and may prescribe the duties and compensations of any office or position of employment.
(Ord. No. 2013-03, § 7, 3-4-13, eff. 7-1-13)
Sec. 2.12. - General powers and authority of the City Council.
(a)
The Mayor, the City Council, and members of the City Council shall deal with city officers and employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of the City Manager solely through the manager; and neither the Mayor, the City Council, nor individual members of the City Council shall give orders to any such city officer or employee, either publicly or privately.
(b)
In addition to all other powers conferred upon it by law, the City Council shall have the authority to adopt and provide for the execution of such ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations, not inconsistent with this Charter and the Constitution and the laws of the State of Georgia, which it shall deem necessary, expedient or helpful for the peace, good order, protection of life and property, health, welfare, sanitation, comfort, convenience, prosperity, or well-being of the inhabitants of the City of Doraville and may enforce such ordinances by imposing penalties for violation thereof.
(Ord. No. 2011-32, § 1, 8-1-11; Ord. No. 2011-33, § 1, 8-15-11; Ord. No. 2013-03, § 8, 3-4-13, eff. 7-1-13)
Editor's note— Section 8 of Ord. No. 2013-03, adopted March 4, 2013, effective July 1, 2013, changed the title of § 2.12 from "Supervision of employees" to "General powers and authority of the City Council."
Sec. 2.13. - Finance Director.
(a)
The City Manager may appoint a Finance Director subject to confirmation by the City Council who shall be the Tax Collector and City Accountant to collect all taxes, licenses, fees, and other moneys belonging to the City subject to the provisions of this Charter and the ordinances of the City; and the Finance Director shall diligently comply with and enforce all general laws of Georgia relating to the collection, sale, or foreclosure of taxes by municipalities. The Finance Director, if necessary for support and administration, may designate the Office of the City Clerk to collect certain taxes, licenses and fees pursuant to policies and procedures defined by the Finance Director.
(b)
The Council shall require the Finance Director, if one is appointed, before entering upon discharge of his or her duties, to give good and sufficient bond in an amount to be decided by the Council but not less than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), said bond payable to the City of Doraville for the faithful performance of his or her duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriations or unlawful expenditures. Said surety bond shall be obtained from a surety company licensed to do business in the State of Georgia and approved by the Council, and the premium thereon shall be paid by the City.
(Ord. No. 2013-03, § 9, 3-4-13, eff. 7-1-13)
Editor's note— Section 9 of Ord. No. 2013-03, adopted March 4, 2013, effective July 1, 2013, repealed former §§ 2.13, 2.13A and 2.13B, and enacted a new § 2.13 as set out herein. Former §§ 2.13. 2.13A and 2.13B pertained to administrative duties of Mayor; additional duties of Mayor; and limitation on Mayor's income, and derived from the original Charter adopted Oct. 13, 1971; and Ord. No. 214, § § 2.13A, 2.13B, adopted Sept. 21, 1981.
Section 2.14. - City attorney.
Be it further enacted that the Council shall appoint a City Attorney, together with such assistant City Attorneys as may be authorized by Ordinance, and shall provide for the payment of such attorney or attorneys for the services rendered to the City. The City Attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the City in all litigation in which the City is a part; shall attend the meetings of the Council as directed; shall advise the Council, Mayor and other officers and employees of the City concerning legal aspects of the City's affairs; and shall give official opinions involving applicable ordinances and laws affecting the City when requested by the Council, or by the Mayor.
(Ord. No. 2013-03, § 10, 3-4-13, eff. 7-1-13)
Section 2.15. - Oath of office.
Be it further enacted, that before a person takes office in the City government, he shall take before the Mayor or an officer of the state authorized to administer oaths, as required by Georgia Law. Said oaths, shall be written or printed, and when executed, filed with the City Clerk.
(Ord. No. 2013-03, § 12, 3-4-13, eff. 7-1-13)
Section 2.16. - City planning.
Be it further enacted, that the council may create and establish a planning commission pursuant to the provisions of general law as they now exist or as they may hereinafter be amended.
ARTICLE III. - MUNICIPAL COURTS

Section 3.01. - Court authorized; jurisdiction.
Be it further enacted, that the City of Doraville shall have a municipal court which shall have jurisdiction over all violations of the ordinances and resolutions of said City.
Section 3.02. - Judge of municipal court.
Be it further enacted, that the council shall elect a judge and make him presiding officer of said court. The judge so elected shall be a duly licensed attorney and a member of the State Bar of Georgia, shall serve at the pleasure of the council, and his compensation shall be fixed by the council. The City attorney may also serve as the municipal court judge. The council shall appoint such other judges, meeting the same required qualifications as set out above, to serve in said municipal court as it shall deem necessary.
Before entering on duties of his office, any judge of the municipal court shall take an oath before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths in this state, that he will truly, honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability without fear, favor, or partiality. This oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the meeting of the council.
Section 3.03. - Powers; maximum penalty; contempt.
Be it further enacted that the judge of the municipal court shall have jurisdiction to try all offenses against the laws and ordinances of the City of Doraville and to punish violators of the same. Said court shall have the power to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by law; to punish witnesses for nonattendance; and also to punish for contempt. The judge of municipal court shall have power and authority to impose fines for the violations of any law or ordinance of the City of Doraville passed in accordance with its charter to an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), or to imprison offenders in the City jail or DeKalb County Jail for a period of not more than ninety (90) days, or to sentence offenders to labor on the streets or other public works of the City of Doraville for not more than ninety (90) days. Said judge shall have the power and authority to impose any one (1) or more of these punishments, when in the opinion of the court the facts justify it. Said court shall have the power to preserve order, compel the attendance of witnesses, compel the production of books and papers to be used as evidence, and to issue subpoenas for these purposes, and to issue such other processes as may be necessary to the proper administration of said court, and to punish for contempt, provided such punishment for contempt shall not exceed a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or imprisonment in jail for not more than ten (10) days, either one (1) or both.
(Ord. No. 217, § 3.03, 10-4-82)
Section 3.04. - Justice of peace power; committing magistrate.
Be it further enacted, that a judge of municipal court shall be to all intents and purposes a justice of the peace so as to enable him to issue warrants for offenses committed within the corporate limits of the City of Doraville, and if upon the trial of any case in said court, it shall appear that any person on trial has committed an offense against the State of Georgia, it shall be the duty of said judge to commit said person to jail or admit him to bail in bailable cases, for his appearance at the next term of a court of competent jurisdiction for said county.
Section 3.05. - Right of appeal.
Be it further enacted, that the right of appeal and any bond as may be required to secure the costs on appeal to the Superior Court of DeKalb County from the municipal court shall lie in the same manner and under the same procedure as generally prescribed for appeals and appeal bonds from the Court of Ordinary. Provided, however, any person convicted of an offense shall have ten (10) days to file his appeal. An appeal to the superior court shall be a de novo proceeding.
Section 3.06. - Time, place for holding court to be designated by council.
Be it further enacted, that the municipal court shall be held at such times and places as the council may designate.
Section 3.07. - Arrest by police officers; right to bail and recognizance.
Be it further enacted, that all police officers of said City shall have the power and authority to arrest persons when there is probable cause to believe that such persons have violated any ordinances of the City or laws of the state, and to confine them in the City prison or the common jail of DeKalb County. Such persons shall be brought before the municipal court for the purpose of a commitment hearing following such arrest as soon as practicable, but not later than the next session of the municipal court, and if there exists probable cause to believe that an offense has been committed and that the defendant committed it, the judge of the municipal court shall bind the defendant over for trial, and shall grant him bail or recognizance if the offense is bailable under ordinance or state law. If said probable cause does not appear, the judge shall discharge the defendant.
Section 3.08. - Acceptance of cash or property in lieu of surety bond.
The judge of the municipal court may in his discretion accept cash or real or personal property as surety for the happening of an event or act concerning matters before the municipal court. Said property or cash shall be deposited with the appropriate person, official or other depository as prescribed by ordinance, in an amount or equivalent cash value to be determined by the judge. If property offered and accepted for said security is realty, or immovable or cumbersome personal property, the municipal court may exercise its authority and control over such property by posting written notice to all persons in or on such property that it is in the custody of said court.
Section 3.09. - Forfeiture of bond, cash, or property on failure to appear.
Be it further enacted, that whenever any defendant shall give bail for his appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for the trial, his bond shall be forfeited by the judge of said municipal court, and an execution thereon issued by serving the defendant and his sureties with a rule nisi, at least two (2) days before the hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of offenders at trial and if such offenders fail to appear at the time and place fixed for trial the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge of said municipal court declared forfeited to the City of Doraville, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the amount of value forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for City property taxes.
Section 3.10. - Court costs.
Be it further enacted, that in all cases in the municipal court of the City of Doraville, the costs incurred and allowable herein may be computed under the provisions of the laws of the State of Georgia fixing costs in the justice of the peace courts of said state, or the council may establish a schedule of fees to defray the costs of operation. The City shall be entitled to reimbursement of the costs, meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to the superior court for violations of state law. The council also may provide a uniform scale of costs of the clerk and police officers of said City for all services in the arrest and prosecution of offenders in the municipal court and in the issuance and collection of tax and other executions, and for their collection and payment into the City treasury.
Section 3.11. - Rules for the court.
Be it further enacted, that with the approval of the council, the judge of the municipal court shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the business of said court; provided, however, that the council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations relative to the procedures of the operation of the superior courts under the general laws of the State of Georgia. The rules and regulations made or adopted for said court shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall be available for public inspection.
ARTICLE IV. - FISCAL ADMINISTRATION

Section 4.01. - Property taxes.
Be it further enacted, that all property subject to taxation for state or county purposes, assessed as of January 1 of each year, shall be subject to the property tax levied by the City of Doraville. The council by ordinance may elect to use the county assessment for the year in which the City taxes are to be levied, or may provide for an independent City evaluation or assessment as provided by Georgia Code Section 92-4001 or by any other Georgia law.
Section 4.02. - Listing, assessing and collecting taxes.
Be it further enacted, that the council shall be authorized to prescribe by ordinance the manner in which ad valorem taxes on real and personal property within the corporate limits of the City shall be listed, assessed and collected.
Section 4.03. - Tax levy.
Be it further enacted that the council shall be authorized to levy an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city for the purposes of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, providing governmental services, and for other public purposes as determined by the council in its discretion. The council is also authorized to provide for sufficient levy to pay principal and interest on general obligations. Said ad valorem tax levy, except such as may be made for bonded indebtedness, shall not exceed ten mills; provided, however, that an ad valorem tax within a special district created under the authority of Article IX, Section II, Paragraph VI(c) of the Constitution of Georgia may be levied without limitation as to rate.
(Act No. 17, § 1, 11-8-11; Act No. 14 , § 1, 4-5-17)
Section 4.04. - Tax due dates and tax bills.
Be it further enacted, that the council shall provide by ordinance when the taxes of the City shall fall due and in what length of time said taxes may be paid, and shall provide by ordinance for the payment of taxes due to the City either in installments or in one (1) lump sum, in its discretion. The council shall also provide for how and upon what terms such taxes shall be due and payable, and may authorize voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
Section 4.05. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
Be it further enacted, that the council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by fi. fa. issued by the City Clerk and executed by any police officer of the City or other person appointed by the council, under the same procedure provided by the laws governing execution of such process from the Superior Courts of Georgia, or by the use of any other legal processes and remedies provided by Georgia law. City property taxes shall constitute a lien against all property upon which City property taxes are levied as of the assessment date of January 1 of each year, which shall be superior to all other liens except that it shall have equal dignity with those of federal, state or county taxes. In cases of hardship, the council shall have discretionary authority to waive any and all penalties imposed by this charter on delinquent taxes, fees, assessments or other amounts due to the City.
Section 4.06. - Special assessments.
Be it further enacted, that the council shall have the power and authority to assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers or other utility mains or appurtenances, against the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as provided by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent thirty (30) days after their due dates and shall thereupon be subject to a penalty of ten (10) percent of the amount due in addition to fi. fa. charges or shall thereafter be subject to interest at the rate of nine (9) percent per annum from due date until paid. A lien for such amount plus fi. fa. charges, interest and penalties shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with county and City property taxes, and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided in this article for City property taxes.
Section 4.07. - Licenses and occupational taxes.
Be it further enacted, that the council may provide by ordinance for the levy of such license and occupation taxes upon the residents of the City of Doraville, individual, partnership, corporate, or other legal entities and upon all those who transact or offer to transact business herein, or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein, as the council may deem expedient for the public health, safety, benefit, convenience or advantage of the City. The council shall have the power to classify businesses, occupations, professions, or callings for the purpose of taxation in any way which may be lawful; to require such persons to procure appropriate licenses; to compel payment for such licenses; and to provide by rules and regulations necessary or proper to carry out the powers herein conferred, and to prescribe penalties for the violation thereof.
Section 4.08. - Garbage collection service charges.
Be it further enacted, that the council may provide by ordinance for the assessment and collection of fees, taxes, charges or tolls for garbage collection services rendered within or without the corporate limits of the City of Doraville, in order to defray the cost of collection and disposal of garbage through the garbage facilities of said City. If unpaid, the garbage collection service fee, tax, charge or toll shall constitute a lien against any property of persons served, which lien shall be superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and City property taxes, and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for City property taxes.
Section 4.09. - Transfer of executions.
Be it further enacted, that the City Clerk of the City of Doraville shall be authorized to transfer or assign any fi. fa. or execution issued for any tax or for any street, sewer, or other assessment in the same manner and to the same extent as provided by Georgia law regarding sales and transfers of tax fi. fas. Such transfer or assignment, when made, shall vest the purchaser or transferee with all right, title, and interest as provided by Georgia law governing sales and transfers of tax fi. fas. Provided that, upon levy of execution and sale of property pursuant to such tax fi. fa., whether assigned, transferred or executed by the City, the owner of such property in fee simple or lesser interest, shall not lose his right to redeem the property in accord with the requirements of redemption of property sold under state or county ad valorem tax fi. fas., as said requirements now exist or as may be provided by law from time to time.
Section 4.10. - General obligation bonds.
Be it further enacted, that the council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuances by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Section 4.11. - Revenue bonds.
Be it further enacted, that revenue bonds may be issued by the council as now or hereafter provided by an act of the General Assembly of Georgia, approved March 31, 1937, known as the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. L. 1937, p. 761) as now or hereafter amended.
Section 4.12. - Budget.
Be it further enacted, that the City government of Doraville shall be operated on a budget. The council shall, by ordinance, set the fiscal year and set the procedures to be followed in adopting, changing, and following the budget. Provided, however, that the budget shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Doraville for at least two (2) consecutive issues after the budget is adopted each year.
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS

Section 5.01. - Regular elections; time for holding and taking office.
Be it further enacted, that except as otherwise provided in this charter, the regular election for Mayor and councilmen, or for councilmen as the case may be, shall be held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November in each odd-numbered year and terms shall be staggered as hereinafter provided. Runoff elections, if required, shall be held in accordance with O.C.G.A. Code Section 21-2-501 and any amendment thereto. Officials elected at any regular election shall take office on the first day of January next following such election.
(Act No. 17, § 2, 11-8-11)
Section 5.02. - Notice of candidacy.
Be it further enacted, that any person desiring to become a candidate in any regular election shall file written notice of his or her candidacy with the municipal superintendent pursuant to O.C.G.A. Code Section 21-2-132 and any amendment thereto. Each municipal superintendant shall designate the days of the qualifying period, which shall be no less than three days and no more than five days. The days of the qualifying period shall be consecutive days. Qualifying periods shall commence no earlier than 8:30 a.m. on the last Monday in August immediately preceding the general election and shall end no later than 4:30 p.m. on the following Friday; and, in the case of a special election, the municipal qualifying period shall commence no earlier than the date of the call and shall end no later than 25 days prior to the election. A qualifying fee of 3 percent of the total gross salary of the office paid in the preceding calendar year pursuant to O.C.G.A. Code Section 21-2-131 and any amendment thereto shall be paid by each candidate in a regular or special election at the time his or her notice of candidacy is filed.
(Act. No. 17, § 3, 11-8-11)
Section 5.03. - Qualifications for Mayor and councilmen.
Be it further enacted, that to be eligible for the office of Mayor or councilman, elected or appointed, a person must meet the qualifications for members of the state house of representatives as prescribed in the State Constitution, art. III, sec. 6, par. 1, (Ga. Code Ann., section 2-1801) as it now exists or may hereafter be amended, must meet the requirements of a qualified elector for members of the General Assembly, as prescribed by state law, must be a registered voter of the City of Doraville, and must be a bona fide resident of the City of Doraville for at least one (1) year next preceding the date of the election in which he offers as a candidate.
Section 5.04. - Qualifications of electors.
Be it further enacted, that any person meeting the qualifications of an elector for members of the General Assembly under state law who has been a bona fide resident of the City of Doraville for at least ninety (90) days next preceding the election in which he desires to vote or such period as may otherwise be provided by the Georgia Municipal Election Code, shall be qualified to register as an elector in any City election held under this charter.
Section 5.05. - Applicability of general laws.
Be it further enacted that except as otherwise provided by this charter, the election of all officials of the City of Doraville where provisions are made for election by the qualified voters thereof, shall be conducted as to special or general elections in conformity so far as applicable with the provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code and Ga. Code Ann. Title 34A, Georgia Laws 1933, as amended. If any time period established by the election code conflicts or is altered so as to conflict with, change, or supersede any time period provided herein, it shall be considered that the time periods provided herein will be correspondingly changed so as to avoid any conflict between this charter and the general law of the State.
Section 5.06. - Time of election.
Be it further enacted, that the polls shall be open from 7:00 a.m. local time to 7:00 p.m. local time.
Section 5.07. - Place of elections.
Be it further enacted, that the polling place or places for holding elections shall be prescribed by the council and shall be published in the election notice as required by law; provided, however, any change in a polling place shall be effected as provided by Ga. Code Ann. Section 34A-604, Georgia Laws 1933, as amended.
Section 5.08. - Election of Mayor and councilmen.
Be it further enacted, that those persons elected to office as of the first Tuesday after the first Monday in January, 1972, shall continue to serve under this charter until their successors are duly elected and qualified as provided by this charter and any other applicable law.
(a)
On the first Saturday in April, 1972, a general election shall be held to fill two (2) new seats on the City Council of Doraville, so that when two (2) persons are duly elected and qualified and subsequently take office in said new positions in May, 1972, the City Council of the City of Doraville shall thereupon consist of six (6) councilmen and a Mayor. For the purposes of this election, the candidates for the two (2) new seats will run at large throughout the City and shall not represent any district during their term. However, the two (2) council seats shall be designated a one-year seat and a two-year seat for the purposes of this election only, and the candidate for one (1) seat shall be elected for a term of one (1) year to expire April 30, 1973, and the candidate for the latter seat shall be elected for a term of two (2) years, to expire April 30, 1974.
(b)
The two (2) members of the council whose terms of office are due to expire December 31, 1972, shall continue to hold office until their successors are duly qualified and elected in April, 1973, and subsequently take office in May, 1973.
On the first Saturday in April, 1973, a general election shall be held for the offices of the two (2) councilmen whose terms of office are expiring as provided above, as well as for the newly created office which is expiring in April, 1973.
Every two (2) years thereafter, a general election shall be held for the offices of the three (3) councilmen whose terms of office are expiring. This election shall be held at large throughout the City but the candidates shall run from City election districts, as hereinafter provided, and each candidate shall reside in the district which he seeks to represent.
(c)
The Mayor and the two (2) members of the council whose terms of office are due to expire December 31, 1973, shall continue to hold office until their successors are duly qualified and elected in April, 1974, and subsequently take office in May, 1974.
On the first Saturday in April, 1974, a general election shall be held for the offices of the Mayor and the two (2) councilmen whose terms of office are expiring as provided above, as well as for the newly created office which is expiring in April, 1974. Every two (2) years thereafter, a general election shall be held for the offices of the Mayor and the three (3) councilmen whose terms of office are expiring.
The candidate for Mayor who receives a majority of the votes cast in said election and the three (3) candidates for councilmen who receive a majority of the votes cast in their respective elections shall be elected for terms of office of two (2) years each and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. The three (3) councilmen to be elected in April of odd numbered years shall be for Post One from each respective City election district as hereinafter described. The three (3) councilmen to be elected in April of even numbered years shall be for Post Two from each respective City election district as hereinafter described.
There shall be three (3) City election districts in the City of Doraville, and two (2) councilmen shall represent each district, and shall reside in the district which they represent. The City election districts shall be as described below.
District One shall consist of all that part of the City lying north and west of the Southern Railroad Main Line.
District Two shall consist of all the part of the City lying south and east of the Buford Highway, and south of Interstate Highway I-285.
District Three shall consist of all that part of the City lying south and east of the Southern Railroad Main Line between the Southern Railroad Main Line and the Buford Highway, and all of that part of the City lying east of the Buford Highway and North of Interstate Highway I-285.
Candidates for the district posts must live in the district which they seek to represent but all elections shall be at large in the City.
In instances where no candidate for Mayor or for any council seat receives a majority of the votes cast at the election held on the first Saturday in April, a runoff election shall be held between the two (2) candidates receiving the highest number of votes in such election. Said runoff election shall be held on the third Saturday in April of the same year. The candidate for Mayor or for any council seat receiving a majority of the votes cast in such runoff election shall be declared the winner.
Section 5.09. - Terms of office.
Be it further enacted, that the terms of office of Mayor and councilmen shall begin on the first day of May next succeeding the election, shall continue for two (2) years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
Section 5.10. - Rules.
Be it further enacted, that the council is hereby authorized to enact by ordinance such additional rules consistent with this charter and general laws as are deemed necessary for the conduct of elections.
Section 5.11. - Absentee ballots.
Be it further enacted that the council in its discretion is authorized to provide by ordinance for absentee ballots.
ARTICLE VI. - SEVERABILITY

Section 6.01. - Severability.
Be it further enacted, that in the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases of this act, which shall remain of full force and effect, as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional was not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly hereby declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this act if it had known that the other part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
ARTICLE VII. - REFERENDUM

Section 7.01. - Referendum.
Be it further enacted, that it shall be the duty of the governing authority of Doraville to issue the call for an election for the purpose of submitting this act to the voters of the City of Doraville for approval or rejection. The date for said election shall be December 1, 1971, and said election shall be conducted in conformity to the Municipal Election Code and to any other applicable laws. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the words:
"( ) For approval of the Act providing a new charter for the City of Doraville."
"( ) Against approval of the Act providing a new charter for the City of Doraville."
All persons desiring to vote in favor of the act shall vote for approval, and those persons desiring to vote for rejection of the act shall vote against approval. If a majority of the votes cast on such question are for approval of the act, it shall become of full force and effect on the date provided hereinafter. If less than a majority of the votes cast on such question are for approval of the act, it shall be void and of no force and effect. The expense of such election shall be borne by the City of Doraville. It shall be the duty of the governing authority to hold and conduct such election, or to provide that the person or persons normally holding City elections hold and conduct such election. It shall be the duty of the governing authority or other authority holding and conducting such election to canvass the returns and declare and certify the result of the election and it shall be their further duty to certify the result of such election to the secretary of state. This article (article VII) of this act shall become effective upon its approval by the governor or upon its becoming law without his approval; the remainder of this act shall become effective if approved by referendum (as provided in article VII) on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in January, 1972.
ARTICLE VIII. - REPEALER

Section 8.01. - Repealer.
Be it further enacted, that all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
ARTICLE IX. - EFFECTIVE DATE

Section 9.01. - Effective date.
Except as otherwise provided for in article VII, this act shall become effective on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in January, 1972, provided that it be approved in the referendum election referred to in article VII.
APPENDIX A. - CORPORATE LIMITS, CITY OF DORAVILLE
The corporate limits of the City of Doraville as herein incorporated and reincorporated shall consist of and include all of the territory lying and being in the 18th and 6th Land Districts of DeKalb County and being more fully described as follows: Beginning at the southeast corner of Land Lot 296 of the 18th District, which is the corner common to Land Lots 295, 296, 282 and 283; thence running westerly along the line common to Land Lots 282 and 296, 2693 feet, more or less, to the westerly right-of-way of Fairlane Drive; thence running southerly 155 feet, more or less, along the westerly right-of-way of Fairlane Drive to its intersection with the northerly right-of-way of Belaire Circle; thence running westerly along the northerly right-of-way of Belaire Circle 185 feet, more or less, to a point which is the intersection formed by the northerly right-of-way of Belaire Circle with the property line common to Lots 2 and 3, Block 5, Land Lot 282 of the 18th District; thence running northerly along the line common to Lots 2 and 3, Block 5, Land Lot 282 of the 18th District, 155 feet, more or less, to the land lot line common to Land Lots 282 and 296; thence running westerly along the line common to Land Lots 282 and 296, 200 feet, more or less, to the land lot corner common to Land Lots 281, 282, 296 and 297; thence continuing westerly along the line common to Land Lots 297 and 281, 730 feet, more or less, to a point, which point is the northwesterly most corner of Lot 17, Block 4, Land Lot 281 of the 18th District; thence southerly 426 feet, more or less, along the westerly property line of Lots 12 thru 17, Block 4, Land Lot 281 of the 18th District to a point lying on the westerly line of aforementioned Lot 12; thence southeasterly 115 feet, more or less, along the westerly property lines of Lots 11 and 12 to a point, which is the southwesterly most corner of Lot 11, Block 4, Land Lot 281 of the 18th District; thence easterly 148 feet, more or less, along the line common to Lots 10 and 11 of Block 4, Land Lot 281 of the 18th District to the westerly right-of-way of Bagley Drive, thence southerly 300 feet, more or less, along the westerly right-of-way of Bagley Drive and following the curvature thereof, to the intersection of the westerly right-of-way of Bagley Drive and the northwesterly right-of-way of Chamblee-Tucker Road; thence northwesterly 1210 feet, more or less, along the northeasterly right-of-way of Chamblee-Tucker Road to the intersection formed by the northeasterly right-of-way of Chamblee-Tucker Road with the easterly right-of-way of Shallowford Drive; thence northerly 3150 feet, more or less, along the easterly right-of-way of Shallowford Drive to an iron pin marker at the intersection of the south line of Land Lot 310 and the southeasterly right-of-way line of Shallowford Road as described by Ga. Laws 1949, p. 568, as the boundary between City of Chamblee, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia, and the City of Doraville; thence running 1404 feet, to an iron pin marker at the point where the northerly side of Old Peachtree Road (shown on this plat as New Peachtree Road, also known as South Peachtree Road) intersects the southeastern right-of-way line of the Southern Railway, also being the boundary between the City of Chamblee and the City of Doraville; thence northwesterly 350 feet, more or less, along the boundary of the City of Chamblee to a point on the westerly right-of-way line of Old Peachtree Road, which point is the boundary common to the City of Doraville and the City of Chamblee; thence northerly 1520 feet, more or less, along the westerly right-of-way of Old Peachtree Road to the intersection formed by the northern land lot line of Land Lot 310 and the westerly right-of-way of Old Peachtree Road; thence westerly 20 feet, more or less, along the land lot line common to Land Lot 310 and 322 to the land lot corner common to Land Lots 309, 310, 322, and 323; thence northerly 2600 feet, more or less, along the westerly right-of-way of Old Peachtree Road to the intersection formed by the southerly right-of-way of Peachtree-Industrial Boulevard and the westerly right-of-way of Old Peachtree Road; thence northeasterly 360 feet, more or less, to the land lot corner formed by Land Lots 322, 323, 334 and 335; thence running northerly 3080 feet, more or less, along the line common to Land Lots 334 and 335 to the land lot corner common to Land Lots 334, 335, 342 and 343; thence easterly 2900 feet, more or less, along the line common to Land Lots 335 and 342 to the land lot corner common to Land Lots 335, 336, 341 and 342; thence running easterly 650 feet, more or less, along the line common to Land Lots 336 and 341 to a point within the right-of-way of Woodwin Road near its intersection with Johnny's Lane which point can be determined by extending the line common to Lots 24 and 25, Block 3, Land Lot 341 of the 18th District in a southerly direction so as to intersect with that line common to Land Lots 336 and 341; thence running northerly 247 feet, more or less, along the above described line common to Lots 24 and 25, Block 3, Land Lot 341 of the 18th District, to the northeast corner of Lot 25; thence running westerly 150 feet, more or less, along the north property line of Lots 25 and 26, Block 3, Land Lot 341 of the 18th District, to a point which is the corner common to Lots 6, 7, 26 and 27, Block 3, Land Lot 341 of the 18th District; thence running northerly 217 feet, more or less, along the line common to Lots 6 and 7, Block 3, Land Lot 341 of the 18th District to the southerly right-of-way of Beacon Drive; thence westerly 250 feet, more or less, along the southerly right-of-way of Beacon Drive to a point formed by the intersection of the southerly right-of-way of Beacon Drive and the easterly right-of-way of Russelwood Lane if extended southerly so as to intersect the southerly right-of-way of Beacon Drive; thence northerly 970 feet, more or less, along the easterly right-of-way of Russelwood Lane and the west property line of Lot 12, Block 2, Land Lot 341 of the 18th District to the center line of Nancy Creek; thence running northwesterly 370 feet, more or less, along the center line of Nancy Creek and following the meanderings thereof, to a point formed by the intersection of the center line of Nancy Creek and the line common to Land Lots 341 and 342; thence running southerly 382 feet, more or less, along the line common to Land Lots 341 and 342, to a point which is the southeast corner of Lot 9, Block 4, Land Lot 342 of the 18th District; thence westerly 291 feet, more or less, along the southerly property line of Lot 9, Block 4, Land Lot 342 of the 18th District to the easterly right-of-way of proposed Peachtree-Industrial Boulevard; thence southeasterly 99 feet, more or less, along the easterly right-of-way of proposed Peachtree-Industrial Boulevard to the intersection formed by the easterly right-of-way of proposed Peachtree-Industrial Boulevard with the southern line of Lot 10, Block 4, Land Lot 342 of the 18th District; thence westerly 100 feet, more or less, across Tilly Mill Road to the westerly right-of-way of Tilly Mill Road along a course which could be established by extending the line common to Lots 10 and 11, Block 4, Land Lot 342 of the 18th District in a westerly direction to the point where it intersects the westerly right-of-way of Tilly Mill Road; thence northwesterly 1750 feet, more or less, along the westerly right-of-way of Tilly Mill Road if said line was extended thru the intersection of the proposed Peachtree-Industrial Boulevard and Tilly Mill Road to the line common to Land Lots 342 and 355; thence easterly 990 feet, more or less, along the line common to Land Lots 342 and 355 to the land lot corner common to Land Lots 341, 342, 355 and 356; thence easterly 2916 feet, more or less, along the line common to Land Lots 341 and 356 to the land lot corner common to Land Lots 340, 341, 356 and 357; thence southerly 2980 feet, more or less, along the line common to Land Lots 340 and 341 to the land lot corner common to Land Lots 340, 341, 336 and 337; thence running easterly 2570 feet, more or less, along the line common to Land Lots 337 and 340 to the line dividing the 6th Land District and the 18th Land District of DeKalb County, Georgia; thence southeasterly 320 feet, more or less, along said district boundary line to a point formed by the intersection of the line common to Land Lots 248 and 249 of the 6th District; thence northeasterly 500 feet, more or less, along the line common to Land Lots 248 and 249 of the 6th District to a point where line is intersected by the boundary between DeKalb and Gwinnett Counties; thence continuing easterly 140 feet, more or less, along said line common to Land Lots 248 and 249, which line is also the boundary between DeKalb and Gwinnett Counties, to the land lot corner common to Land Lots 248 and 249 and 250; thence southeasterly 620 feet, more or less, along the easterly line of Land Lot 248 of the 6th District, which is also the boundary between DeKalb and Gwinnett County, to a point where said line intersects the southeasterly right-of-way of Buford Highway; thence running southwesterly 220 feet, more or less, along the southeasterly boundary of Buford Highway to a point which is the westerly corner of Lot 2, Block 2, Land Lot 248 of the 6th District, which point is also the intersection formed by the southeasterly right-of-way line of Buford Highway and the boundary between the 6th and 18th Land Districts; thence running southeasterly 772 feet, more or less, along the boundary of the 6th and 18th Land Districts to a point which is the intersection formed by the northeasterly line of Land Lot 248 of the 6th District and the boundary between the 6th and 18th Land Districts; thence continuing southeasterly along the boundary of the 6th and 18th Land Districts, which is also the boundary between DeKalb and Gwinnett Counties, 1893 feet, more or less, to a point which is the northwestern corner of Lot 66, Block 5, Land Lot 338 of the 18th District; thence continuing in a southeasterly direction 610 feet, more or less, to a point which is formed by the intersection of the boundary of the 6th and 18th Land Districts which is also the DeKalb and Gwinnett Counties boundary is intersected by the line common to Land Lots 338, 339 of the 18th District; thence southerly 410 feet, more or less, along the line common to Land Lots 338 and 339 of the 18th District to the corner common to Land Lots 338, 339, 318 and 319; thence continuing southerly 1540 feet, more or less, along the line common to Land Lots 318 and 319 of the 18th District to a point which is the southeast corner of Lot 17, Block 17, Land Lot 319 of the 18th District; thence westerly 1189 feet, more or less, along the southerly line of Lots 3 thru 17 of Block 17, Land Lot 319 of the 18th District to the easterly right-of-way of Oakcliff Road; thence running westerly 60 feet, more or less, along the same line across Oakcliff Road to a point on the westerly right-of-way line of Oakcliff Road where the westerly right-of-way line of Oakcliff Road is intersected by the southerly line of Lot 1, Block 3, Land Lot 319 of the 18th District; thence running westerly 324 feet, more or less, along the southerly property lines of Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 3, Land Lot 319 of the 18th District to a point at the southwestern corner of Lot 3, Block 3, Land Lot 319 of the 18th District; thence running southerly along the east property lines of Lots 4 thru 13, Block 3, Land Lot 319 of the 18th District 697 feet, more or less, to the southeasterly corner of Lot 13, Block 3, Land Lot 319 of the 18th District; thence running westerly 413 feet, more or less, along the southerly property line of Lot 13, to the eastern right-of-way of Pin Oak Circle; thence running westerly along the same line 60 feet, more or less, across Pin Oak Circle to the westerly right-of-way line of Pin Oak Circle; thence running westerly 675 feet, more or less, along the southerly line of Lots 2 thru 10, Block 10, Land Lot 319 of the 18th District to the southwestern corner of Lot 2, Block 10, Land Lot 319 of the 18th District; thence continuing westerly along the same line thru Lot 12, Block 10, Land Lot 319 of the 18th District and across Pin Oak Circle a distance of 210 feet, more or less, to a point on the westerly right-of-way of Pin Oak Circle which point is the southeastern corner of Lot 17, Block 11, Land Lot 319 of the 18th District; thence continuing westerly along the line common to Lots 17 and 21, Block 11, Land Lot 319 of the 18th District, 150 feet, more or less, to the intersection with the line common to Land Lots 319 and 320; thence running northerly along the line common to Land Lots 319 and 320, 2280 feet, more or less, to the land lot corner common to Land Lots 319, 320, 337 and 338; thence continuing northerly 1910 feet, more or less, along the line common to Land Lots 337 and 338 to the southerly right-of-way of Buford Highway; thence running southwesterly 2309 feet, more or less, along the southerly right-of-way of Buford Highway to the intersection of the line common to Land Lots 337 and 320; thence continuing southwesterly along the southerly right-of-way of Buford Highway 2079 feet, more or less, to the southwestern corner of Lot 9, Block 1, Land Lot 320 of the 18th District; thence easterly 401 feet, more or less, along the southern line of Lot 9, Block 1, Land Lot 320 of the 18th District to the southeasterly corner of Lot 9, which corner is common to Lots 8, 9, 10, and 27, Block 1, Land Lot 320 of the 18th District; thence southwesterly 297 feet, more or less, along the westerly property line of Lot 16, Block 1, Land Lot 320 of the 18th District to a point; thence running southerly 590 feet, more or less, along the westerly property line of Lots 14, 15 and 16 to a point which is the southwesterly corner of Lot 14, Block 1, Land Lot 320 of the 18th District; thence running southwesterly 265 feet, more or less, along the westerly property line of Lot 13 to the southwesterly corner of Lot 13, thence continuing southwesterly 240 feet, more or less, along the westerly property line of Lot 12 to the southwesterly corner of Lot 12, Block 1, Land Lot 320 of the 18th District; thence running westerly 89 feet, more or less, along the north property line of Lot 11, Block 1, Land Lot 320 of the 18th District to the line common to Land Lots 320 and 321; thence running southerly 230 feet, more or less, along the line common to Land Lots 320 and 321 to the land lot corner common to Land Lots 320, 321, 311, and 312; thence continuing southerly 830 feet, more or less, along the line common to Land Lots 311 and 312 to a point formed by the intersection of the southerly right-of-way of I-285 and the line common to Land Lots 311 and 312; thence running southeasterly 1700 feet, more or less, along the southerly right-of-way of I-285 to the center line of a creek; thence running southwesterly 50 feet, more or less, along the center line of said creek and following the meanderings thereof to a point formed by the intersection of the center line of said creek and the northeasterly line of Lot 39, Block 1, Land Lot 312 of the 18th District; thence northwesterly along the northeasterly property line of Lots 38 and 39, Block 1, Land Lot 312 of the 18th District, a distance of 115 feet, more or less; thence westerly 1146 feet, more or less, along the north property line of Lots 30 thru 38, Cherokee Road, and Lots 27 and 28, all being in Block 1, Land Lot 312 of the 18th District to the line common to Land Lots 311 and 312; thence running southerly 1060 feet, more or less, along the line common to Land Lots 311 and 312 to the land lot corner common to Land Lots 311, 312, 295 and 296; thence running southerly 3020 feet, more or less, along the line common to Land Lots 295 and 296 to the land lot corner common to Land Lots 282, 283, 295 and 296, which is the point of beginning; less and except all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 342 of the 18th District of DeKalb County, Georgia, being more particularly described as follows: To find the point of beginning start at a point which is the intersection of Land Lots 355, 356, 341 and 342 and proceed west along the line common to Land Lots 342 and 355, 936 feet to an iron pin located on the northeasterly side of Tilly Mill Road; run south along the northeasterly side of Tilly Mill Road 261 feet to a point which is the point of beginning; from the point of beginning thus established, thence running easterly 250.5 feet to a point; thence running south 104.4 feet, more or less, to a point; thence running west 228.2 feet to a point on the northeastern side of Tilly Mill Road; thence running northerly 125 feet along the northeasterly side of Tilly Mill Road to the point of beginning, this being the property of Ronald C. Dixon, which is specifically excluded from the City limits of the City of Doraville, according to plat entitled Proposed Map of City Limit Doraville, Georgia lying and being in DeKalb County, compiled from tax map and Field Surveys dated January, 1970 by Chester M. Smith, Jr., Registered Land Surveyor No. 1445.
It is intended that the City limits of the City of Doraville not extend into Gwinnett County at any point and should the above and foregoing legal description or error of any nature whatsoever be interpreted to extend said boundaries of the City of Doraville into Gwinnett County then this paragraph shall prevail and the boundary shall be set on the DeKalb County-Gwinnett County Line, it specifically being intended that all of the City of Doraville shall lie within DeKalb County, Georgia.
In addition to all other territory included within the corporate limits of said city, the corporate limits shall specifically include the following described property, all of which is located in DeKalb County, Georgia:
Tract 1:
All that property contained in the unincorporated island with its boundary between the City of Doraville, Georgia, and the City of Dunwoody, Georgia, proceeding along Tilly Mill Road from Woodwin Road to across Peachtree Industrial Boulevard to the boundary of the City of Dunwoody, Georgia.
Tract 2:
All that property contained in the unincorporated island with its boundary between the City of Doraville, Georgia; the City of Dunwoody, Georgia; and Gwinnett County, Georgia, from the City of Dunwoody, Georgia, City Limits along Peachtree Industrial Road until the City of Doraville, Georgia, City Limits beyond Winters Chapel Road, bordered on the north by Gwinnett County, Georgia.
In addition to all other territory included within the corporate limits of said city, the corporate limits shall specifically include the following described property, all of which is located in DeKalb County, Georgia:
Annexation Area A:
A certain parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 337 and 320 of the 18th District of DeKalb County, Georgia, according to the platting and tax parcel systems as set forth in the official records of DeKalb County, Georgia, on the 27th day of February, 2014, as more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at the intersection of Parcel 18 337 04 002, Parcel 18 338 08 085, the easterly right-of-way property boundary of Buford Highway Northeast/US Highway Route 23, and the existing municipal property boundary of the City of Doraville, and being the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of this description;
Thence, southerly following the municipal property boundary of the City of Doraville, which follows the easterly right-of-way property boundary of Buford Highway Northeast/US Highway Route 23 to a point of intersection of the easterly right-of-way property boundary of Buford Highway Northeast/US Highway Route 23, Parcel 18 320 01 009 and Parcel 18 320 01 035;
Thence, approximately 200 feet along the southerly property boundary of Parcel 18 320 01 009 to a point intersecting with southerly property boundary of Parcel 18 320 01 010 and easterly property boundary of Parcel 18 320 01 027;
Thence, approximately 14 feet along the easterly property boundary of Parcel 18 320 01 010 to a point intersecting with the easterly property boundary of said parcel and with the southerly property boundary of Parcel 18 320 01 009;
Thence, approximately 184 feet along the southerly property boundary of Parcel 18 320 01 009 to a point intersecting with the southerly property boundary of Parcel 18 320 01 008;
Thence, approximately 145 feet along the southerly property boundary of Parcel 18 320 01 008 to a point intersecting with the southerly property boundary of Parcel 18 320 01 024;
Thence, approximately 144 feet along the southerly property boundary of Parcel 18 320 01 024 to a point of intersection of said Parcel and Parcel 18 320 01 023;
Thence, approximately 108 feet along the easterly property boundary of Parcel 18 320 01 024 to a point intersecting with easterly property boundary of Parcel 18 320 01 026;
Thence, approximately 324 feet along the easterly property boundary of Parcel 18 320 01 026 to a point of intersection of said Parcel and the northerly property boundary of Parcel 18 320 01 019;
Thence, approximately 170 feet along the northerly property boundary of Parcel 18 320 01 019 to a point of intersection of said Parcel and the westerly right-of-way of McElroy Road;
Thence, crossing McElroy Road to a point of intersection of the easterly right-of-way of McElroy Road and the westerly property boundary of Parcel 18 320 04 039 and Parcel 18 320 04 040;
Thence, northerly along the easterly right-of-way of McElroy Road to its intersection with Parcel 18 320 04 039 and Parcel 18 320 04 038;
Thence, approximately 692 feet along the northeasterly property boundary of Parcel 18 320 04 038 to a point intersecting with the westerly property boundary Parcel 18 320 04 064;
Thence, approximately 291 feet along the easterly property boundary of Parcel 18 320 04 038 to a point intersecting with the southerly property boundary of Parcel 18 337 05 001;
Thence, approximately 336 feet along the southerly property boundary of Parcel 18 337 05 001 to a point intersecting with the southerly property boundary of Parcel 18 337 05 005;
Thence, approximately 309 feet along the southerly property boundary of Parcel 18 337 05 005 to a point intersecting with easterly property boundary of Parcel 18 337 05 005;
Thence, approximately 290 feet along the easterly property boundary of Parcel 18 337 05 005 to a point of intersection of said Parcel and the southerly right-of-way of Oakcliff Road;
Thence, crossing Oakcliff Road to a point of intersection of the northerly right-of-way of Oakcliff Road, Parcel 18 337 09 027, and Parcel 18 337 04 009;
Thence, approximately 107 feet along the westerly property boundary of Parcel 18 337 04 009 to a point intersecting with the southerly property boundary of Parcel 18 337 09 027;
Thence, approximately 215 feet along the southerly property boundary of Parcel 18 337 09 027 to a point intersecting with the southerly property boundary of Parcel 18 337 09 028;
Thence, approximately 550 feet along the southerly property boundary of Parcel 18 337 09 028 to a point of intersection of said Parcel and the municipal property boundary of the City of Doraville;
Thence, northerly following the municipal property boundary of the City of Doraville to the intersection of Parcel 18 337 04 002, Parcel 18 338 08 085, and the southerly right-of-way property boundary of Buford Highway Northeast/US Highway Route 23, and being the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.
Annexation Area B:
A certain parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 282 and 295 of the 18th District of DeKalb County, Georgia, according to the platting and tax parcel systems as set forth in the official records of DeKalb County, Georgia, on the 27th day of February, 2014 as more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at the intersection of the easterly right-of-way boundary of Chestnut Drive, the existing municipal boundary of the City of Doraville, and Parcel 18 282 13 002, being the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of this description;
Thence, southerly following the easterly right-of-way of Chestnut Drive to a point of intersection of said right-of-way with the northerly right-of-way with Interstate 85; Thence, northeasterly along the northerly right-of-way of Interstate 85 to a point of intersection with the westerly right-of-way of Interstate 285;
Thence, northwesterly along the westerly right-of-way of Interstate 285 to its point of intersection with Parcel 18 295 01 034, and Parcel 18 295 01 036;
Thence, approximately 477 feet along the northerly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 034 to a point intersecting with the easterly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 037;
Thence, northeasterly approximately 47 feet along the easterly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 037 to a point intersecting with northerly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 037;
Thence, along the northerly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 037 to a point of intersection of said Parcel and Parcel 18 295 01 032;
Thence, approximately 472 feet along the easterly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 032 to a point intersecting with the northerly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 032;
Thence, approximately 305 feet along the northerly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 032 to a point intersecting with the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 032;
Thence, approximately 735 feet along the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 032 to a point intersecting with the southerly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 032;
Thence, approximately 38 feet along the southerly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 032 to a point intersecting with the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 018;
Thence, approximately 555 feet along the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 018 to a point intersecting with the northerly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 027;
Thence, approximately 43 feet along the northwesterly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 027 to a point intersecting with the northwesterly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 019;
Thence, approximately 580 feet along the northwesterly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 019 to a point intersecting with the northwesterly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 020;
Thence, approximately 164 feet along the northwesterly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 020 to a point intersecting with the northwesterly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 022;
Thence, approximately 130 feet along the northwesterly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 022 to a point intersecting with northwesterly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 021;
Thence, approximately 38 feet along the northwesterly boundary of Parcel 18 295 01 021 to a point of intersection of said Parcel, Parcel 18 295 01 003, and the existing municipal boundary of the City of Doraville;
Thence, southerly following the municipal boundary of the City of Doraville to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.
Annexation Area C:
A certain parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 312, 313, 314, 317, 318, and 319 of the 18th District of DeKalb County, Georgia, according to the platting and tax parcel systems as set forth in the official records of DeKalb County, Georgia, on the 27th day of February, 2014 as more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at the intersection of the northwesterly boundary corner of Parcel 18 312 02 028 and the southwesterly boundary comer of Parcel 18 312 02 010, being the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of this description;
Thence, approximately 109 feet along the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 312 02 028 to a point intersecting with the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 312 02 012;
Thence, approximately 151 feet along the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 312 02 012 to a point intersecting with the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 312 02 016;
Thence, approximately 148 feet along the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 312 02 016 to a point intersecting with the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 312 02 033;
Thence, approximately 325 feet along the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 312 02 033 to a point intersecting with the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 312 02 030;
Thence, approximately 154 feet along the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 312 02 030 to a point intersecting with the southerly boundary of Parcel 18 312 02 030 and the northerly right-of-way boundary of Interstate 285;
Thence, commencing southeasterly following the northerly right-of-way boundary of Interstate 285 to a point of intersection of the right-of-way boundary of said Interstate and the northerly right-of-way boundary of Interstate 85;
Thence, commencing northeasterly following the northerly right-of-way boundary of Interstate 85 to its point of intersection of said Interstate, the existing boundary of the County of DeKalb, and the existing boundary of the County of Gwinnett;
Thence, commencing northwesterly following the boundary of the County of DeKalb to a point of intersection of said boundary, the existing municipal boundary of the City of Doraville and the northerly corner of Parcel 18 318 01 001;
Thence, approximately 1,560 feet along the existing municipal boundary of the City of Doraville and the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 318 01 001 to a point of intersection with the northerly boundary of Parcel 18 318 01 002;
Thence, approximately 12 feet along the existing municipal boundary of the City of Doraville and the northerly boundary of Parcel 18 318 01 002 to a point of intersection with the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 318 01 002;
Thence, approximately 372 feet along the existing municipal boundary of the City of Doraville and the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 318 01 002 and the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 318 01 013 to a point intersecting with the easterly boundary of Parcel 18 319 17 020;
Thence, commencing westerly approximately 1,515 feet along the existing municipal boundary of the City of Doraville to the intersection of said municipal boundary and the northwest corner of Parcel 18 319 03 034;
Thence, approximately 1,012 feet along the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 319 03 034 to a point intersecting with the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 319 03 038;
Thence, approximately 278 feet along the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 319 03 038 to a point intersecting with the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 313 01 063;
Thence, approximately 135 feet along the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 313 01 063 to a point intersecting with northerly boundary of Parcel 18 313 01 063;
Thence, approximately 193 feet along the northerly boundary of Parcel 18313 01 063 to a point intersecting with the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 313 01 063;
Thence, following the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 313 01 063 to a point intersecting with the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 313 01 062;
Thence, following the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 313 01 062 to a point intersecting with the northerly boundary of Parcel 18 313 01 046;
Thence, following the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 313 01 046 to a point intersecting with the northerly boundary of Parcel 18 313 01 059;
Thence, approximately 819 feet along the northerly boundary of Parcel 18 313 01 059 to a point intersecting with the northerly boundary of Parcel 18 313 01 058;
Thence, approximately 569 feet along the northerly boundary of Parcel 18 313 01 058 intersecting with the easterly boundary of Parcel 18 312 06 005;
Thence, approximately 649 feet along the easterly boundary of Parcel 18 312 06 005 to a point intersecting with the northerly boundary of Parcel 18 312 06 005;
Thence, approximately 650 feet along the northerly boundary of Parcel 18 312 06 005 to a point of intersection of said Parcel and the easterly right-of-way boundary of Honeysuckle Lane;
Thence, crossing Honeysuckle Lane to a point of intersection of the westerly right-of-way boundary of Honeysuckle Lane and the northerly boundary of Parcel 18 312 02 030 and Parcel 18 321 02 017;
Thence, following the westerly right-of-way boundary of Honeysuckle Lane northerly to a point of intersection of said Road and the northwesterly corner of Parcel 18 312 02 017;
Thence, approximately 191 feet along the westerly boundary of Parcel 18 312 02 017 to a point intersecting with the northern boundary of Parcel 18 312 02 019;
Thence, approximately 270 feet along the northern boundary of Parcel 18 312 02 019 to a point of intersection of said Parcel and the easterly right-of-way boundary of McElroy Road;
Thence, crossing McElroy Road to a point of intersection of the westerly right-of-way boundary of said Road, Parcel 18 312 02 028, and Parcel 18 312 02 010;
Thence, approximately 165 feet along the northerly boundary of Parcel 18 312 02 028 to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.
(S.B. 532, 7-29-13, eff. 12-31-12; Act 654 , 4-29-14, eff. 12-31-14)
