SECTION 8. - NONCONFORMITIES

8-1 - Nonconformities defined.
Any existing land lot, land use or the use of a structure or building which does not conform to the terms, conditions, rules, regulations or provisions of this ordinance, on the day the [Land Development] Code was adopted, shall be defined as nonconforming.
8-2 - Nonconforming land lot.
Any land lot that had been recorded in the public records of Berrien County at the time of the adoption of this ordinance, and that becomes nonconforming by definition of this section, may be used in accordance with the schedule of permitted uses, [as set forth in] section 5, for the land development district in which the lot is located.
8-3 - Nonconforming land use, structure or building; uses of structures.
Any land use, structure or building lawfully existing at the time of [adoption of] this ordinance may continue to be used and title may be transferred or conveyed by sale or by any other lawful means.
a.
Any existing lawful land use, structure or building may be maintained and repaired contingent upon the activity conforming to all federal, state and local laws regulating related subject matter.
b.
All written requests for the reconstruction, expansion or enlargement of any nonconformity shall not exceed 50 percent of the total existing floor space and shall only be issued on a case-by-case basis as discussed and acted upon by the board of commissioners.
c.
All nonconforming mobile and manufactured homes, when once destroyed by an act of God or accidental fire, may be replaced with another unit of the same kind, contingent upon adherence to all of the following stipulations:
(1)
The replacement unit shall adhere to the lot and building provisions of the appropriate land development district it is located in;
(2)
The replacement unit shall be a substantially upgraded unit, adhering to all federal, state and local building regulations;
(3)
The replacement unit permit shall be obtained from the county code enforcement officer and shall not exceed a 90 day period from date of issuance.
d.
All nonconforming junkyards shall be made to conform with the special provisions of the land development ordinance within a period of two years of the adoption of the land development ordinance. An eight foot wide buffer strip shall be planted, or existing vegetation may be used, in combination with a solid fence, which shall be constructed of wood, concrete or chainlink, with wooden or metal slats. The required vegetative screen shall be planted such that it will reach its required height in a period of three years, and the fence and vegetative buffer shall be erected along all road frontages, side lot lines and rear yards. All fences must be secured with locks approved by the county code enforcement officer.
