SECTION 2. - DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of these regulations, certain terms or words used herein shall be defined as follows:

2-1 - Interpretation of certain terms and words.
Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular.
The word "person" includes a firm, partnership, company, corporation or association.
The word "lot" includes the word "plot" or "parcel."
The word "building" includes the word "structure."
The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely discretionary.
The word "used" or "occupied," as applied to any land or building, shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied."
Accessory building. A detached, subordinate structure, the use of which is clearly incidental to, customarily associated with, and related to the principal structure or use of the land; and which is located on the same lot as the principal structure or use, including enclosed residential swimming pools. provided however, mobile homes, campers, vans recreational vehicles or trailers shall not be considered an accessory building irrespective of how same is proposed to be attached to the realty or whether same has wheels.
Administrator, land development. The county code enforcement officer has been designated the administrator of land development regulations for Berrien County by the board of county commissioners. (See section 12.)
Adult entertainment. Performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are characterized by the display or exposure of anatomical areas.
Adult entertainment establishments. A commercial establishment, which has as its primary purposes or business the offer for sale, rent or distribution of any book, publication, tape, CD, DVD or any media that depicts nudity or sexual conduct, or engages in services such as bathhouses, massage parlors, wrestling parlors or like activity, including a nightclub, restaurant, cabaret, lounge or other establishment which features adult entertainment.
Agriculture. The production, keeping or maintenance, for sale, lease or personal use, of plants and animals useful to man, including, but not limited to, forages and sod crops; grains and seed crops; dairy animals and dairy products; poultry and poultry products; livestock, including beef cattle, sheep, swine, horses, ponies, mules, goats or any mutations or hybrids thereof, including the breeding and grazing of any or all such animals; bees and apiary products; fur animals; trees and forest products; fruits of all kinds, including grapes, nuts and berries; vegetables; nursery, floral, ornamental and greenhouse products; or lands devoted to a soil conservation or forestry management program.
Ambulatory. In respect to a person, the ability to move from place to place by walking, either unaided or aided by prosthesis, brace, crutch or hand rail, or by propelling a wheelchair; and can recognize an emergency situation or condition, whether caused by fire or otherwise, and escape without human assistance, using the normal means of egress.
Automobile service station. A place where gasoline, diesel or any other motor fuel or lubricating or grease for operating motor vehicles are offered for sale to the public, including on-site oil and tire changes.
Bed and breakfast. A building dedicated to lodging 20 or less transient persons, which serves only breakfast to its registered guests, which is included in the price of the overnight accommodation.
Boardinghouse or roominghouse. A building dedicated to the lodging or feeding, or both, of five and not more than 15 nontransient persons or separate families, as defined herein, for compensation.
Buffer area; buffer strip. That portion of a given lot, not covered by buildings, pavement, parking, fences, access and service areas, established as landscaped open space for the purposes of screening and separating properties with incompatible land uses, the width of which is measured from the common property line and extends the developed portion of the common property line.
Building. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and intended for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals or property of any kind.
Building height. The vertical distance of a building measured from the finished lot grade along the front of the building to the highest point of the building.
Care home. An orphanage, rest home, nursing home, convalescent home or similar use established to render domiciliary care, but not including facilities for the care of mental patients, alcoholics, drug addicts, halfway houses, and not including nursery schools.
Church. A building in which persons regularly assemble for religious worship, intended primarily for purposes connected with such worship or for propagating a particular form of religious belief.
Clinic. Any building or structure devoted to the medical diagnosis, treatment and care of human or animal outpatients.
Club or lodge, private. An incorporated or unincorporated association for civic, social, cultural, religious, fraternal, literary, political, recreational or like activities, operated for the benefit of its members and not open to the general public.
Comprehensive plan. The 2015 Greater Berrien Comprehensive Plan, as duly adopted and subsequently amended by the respective member governments of Berrien County. This plan includes future land use plans and shortterm work programs for each respective local government, including Berrien County.
Curb cut. The providing of ingress and/or egress between property and an abutting public street.
Density. When referring to residential areas, density is defined as the number of housing units permitted per acre in the respective land development district involved in accordance with the terms of this land development ordinance or as authorized under the development standards of this ordinance.
District. Within the concept of land development, a delineated section or sections of Berrien County for which the land development regulations governing the use of buildings and premises, the height of buildings, the size of yards and the intensity of use are uniform.
Dwelling, single-family. A detached building used and either designed or constructed for one dwelling unit.
Dwelling, manufactured home. A manufactured home is a detached structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling unit, with or without a permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein. For the purpose of the administration of this ordinance, the term manufactured home shall not be interpreted to include mobile homes.
Dwelling, mobile home. A manufactured home built before June 15, 1976.
Dwelling, manufactured housing park. An area, under single ownership and not subdivided into customary lots planned for individual ownership, containing three or more manufactured homes used as living facilities having a defined space, or an area containing three or more spaces designed or intended for parking of manufactured homes to be used as living facilities for rent or lease.
Dwelling, two-family, or duplex. A building either designed, constructed, altered or used for two adjoining dwelling units that are connected by a fire rated common wall and/or, if two stories in height, by a fire rated common floor.
Dwelling unit. An enclosure of one or more rooms, including kitchen and bathroom facilities, designed or constructed as a unit for residential occupancy by one family.
Family. One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a boardinghouse, lodginghouse, hotel, or fraternity or sorority house.
Farm. A tract of land of ten acres or more, devoted to agricultural purposes.
Flea market. An outdoor and/or indoor facility established for the purpose of selling at retail such new or used items as household goods, tools, crafts or any other combination of new or used goods. These markets, sales and displays are those that occur continuously or frequently, and specifically more than two times per year, normally at a fixed location where a proprietor, partnership or corporation leases to vendors a booth, commercial staff or designated area from which the vendor markets his/her goods.
Floor area, gross. The total number of square feet of floor area in a building determined by horizontal measurements between the exterior faces of walls, excluding basement areas, attics, breezeways, porches, carports and garages.
Guest or servant quarters. A detached, subordinate building, located within the rear yard, designed to provide living accommodations for either domestic help in the employment of the property owner or for guest facilities. Guest or servant quarters shall not exceed 75 percent of the required minimum gross floor area per dwelling unit for the respective land development district in which they are allowed.
Home occupation. An occupation for gain or support, customarily conducted on the premises by a person or family residing therein. These uses are governed by the requirements of section 9. Home occupations are permitted uses as a matter of right in certain districts pursuant to the schedules of use under section 5 and are permitted in other districts only after special review and approval by the board of county commissioners as special exceptions.
Hospital. Any institution receiving in-patients, or a public institution receiving out-patients, and authorized under Georgia law to render medical, surgical and/or obstetrical care. The term "hospital" shall include a sanitarium for the treatment and care of senile psychotics or drug addicts, but shall not include office facilities for the private practice of medicine or dentistry.
Hotel. A building in which temporary lodging is provided and offered to the public for compensation and which is open primarily to transient guests.
Industrialized building. Industrialized building describes certain manufactured buildings which are regulated by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs. Georgia law defines an industrialized building "as any structure or component thereof which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to or destruction thereof." Industrialized buildings are constructed and regulated in accordance with the "Industrialized Buildings Act," 1982 Georgia Laws (O.C.G.A. tit. 8, ch. 2, art. 2, pt. 1). An industrialized building must meet all requirements of the district in which it is located. Industrialized buildings designed for residential uses are often referred to as "modular homes." For the purposes of enforcement of this ordinance, industrialized residential homes shall be subject to the same standards as site built homes.
Junkyard. Use of property for outdoor storage, keeping, abandonment, sale or resale of junk, including scrap metal, rags, paper or other scrap materials, used lumber, salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and equipment, or for the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of automobiles or other vehicles or machinery, or parts thereof. For the purposes of enforcement of this ordinance, "junkyard" means anywhere five or more vehicles, not in running condition, or the parts thereof, or household appliances are stored in the open or in open buildings. Buffers are required for all junkyards. Farm vehicles and equipment are exempted from this definition. (See section 8.)
Kennel. Any location where boarding, caring for and keeping of more than a total of four or more dogs or cats, or other small animals, or combination thereof (except litters of animals of not more than six months of age) is carried on for compensation, and also raising, breeding, caring for or boarding of dogs, cats or other small animals for commercial purposes.
Kennel, noncommercial. Any location where the boarding, grooming, caring for and keeping of more than three, but not more than ten, dogs or cats, or other small animals, or combination thereof (except litters of animals of not more than six months of age) is carried on, not for commercial purpose, but as a hobby, such as the raising of show and hunting dogs.
Licensed day care center. A day care center licensed by the State of Georgia and/or Berrien County that provides care, training, education, custody, treatment or supervision for children under 14 years of age, where such children are not related by blood, marriage or adoption to an owner or operator of the facility.
Lot. A lot of record, held in a single ownership by one person, or in common ownership by more than one [person], which has both lot area and lot dimensions equal to or greater than the lot width and lot area requirements established by this ordinance for the land development district in which such tract of land is located and for the use proposed for the tract of land. (See section 3-21.)
Lot, corner. A lot having frontage on two or more public streets at their intersection. (See section 3-11.)
Lot of record. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of Berrien County, or a parcel described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this ordinance. (See section 3-21.)
Lot, through. A lot, other than a corner lot, having frontage on more than one intersecting street; or a corner lot having frontage on three or more streets.
Lot width. The distance between the side lot lines, measured along the front yard setback line as established by this ordinance, or if no setback line is established, the horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured along the street right-of-way line.
Minor. Any person under 18 years of age.
Motel. A building or group of buildings containing overnight sleeping quarters for tourists and transients, with parking spaces conveniently located to each unit.
Newspaper or periodical production, sales and distribution. The operation of a newspaper or periodical business, including the production, sales and distribution thereof, including all necessary press work. Such term includes, but is broader than, newspaper or periodical publishing.
Newspaper or periodical publishing. This term is narrower in scope than newspaper or periodical production, sales and distribution. The term does not include press work, sales or distribution and is limited to the composition, layout and nonpress work printing of a newspaper or periodical.
Nightclub (lounge). A place of entertainment, open at night, usually serving food and alcoholic beverages and providing music and space for dancing.
Nonconforming use. Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use on the effective date of this ordinance.
Nursery school. An agency, organization or individual providing daytime care of seven or more children, where a state license is required, not related by blood or marriage, or not the legal wards or foster children of the attendant adult.
Open space. That required portion of a lot at ground level, unoccupied by enclosed buildings and available to all occupants of the project. This space shall not be devoted to driveways or off-street parking, but shall be usable for green space, recreational use and other leisure activities normally carried on outdoors.
Owner(s). If a sole proprietorship, the proprietor; if a partnership, all partners (general and limited); if a corporation, all officers, directors and persons holding at least ten percent of the outstanding shares.
Personal care home. A building or group of buildings, a facility or place in which is provided two or more beds and other facilities and services, including rooms, meals and personal care for nonfamily ambulatory adults for compensation.
a)
"Family personal care home" means a home for adults in a family-type residence, noninstitutional in character, which offers care to two through six persons.
b)
"Group personal care home" means a home for adult persons in a residence or other type building(s), noninstitutional in character, which offers care to seven through 15 persons.
c)
"Congregate personal care home" means a home for adults, which offers care to 16 or more persons.
Planning commission. As utilized in this ordinance, the planning commission shall mean the Greater Berrien Planning Commission as duly appointed by the member governments of Berrien County, Georgia.
Principal building. The building containing or to contain the principal use of a lot.
Principal use. The principal purpose for which a lot or the main building thereon is designed, arranged or intended, and for which it is or may be used, occupied or maintained.
Public street. A right-of-way dedicated to the city, county, state or federal government, or owned by the city, county, state or federal government for public street purposes.
Residential. Pertaining to the use of land, means premises such as homes, townhouses, patio homes, manufactured homes, duplexes, condominiums or apartment complexes or single room rental units, which contain habitable rooms for nontransient occupancy and which are designed primarily for living, sleeping, cooking and eating therein.
School. A facility where persons regularly assemble for the purpose of instruction or education, including any playgrounds, stadiums or other structures and grounds used in conjunction therewith. This shall include, but not be limited to, public and private schools used for primary, secondary or post-secondary education.
Setback. The shortest distance between the centerline of a street and the principal building or structure on a lot.
Shopping center. Two or more commercial establishments planned and managed as a single unit with off-street parking and loading facilities provided on the property.
Special events. A profit-making venture sponsored by a public agency or service group engaged in fund raising activities (i.e., circuses, festivals, concerts, etc.).
Special exception. A special exception is a use which, within certain districts specified by this ordinance, is not permitted as a matter of right, but may be permitted within these districts by the Berrien County Commission after the planning commission and county commission have:
(1)
Reviewed the proposed site plans for the use, its location within the county, its arrangement and design, its relationship to neighboring property and other conditions peculiar to the particular proposal which would determine its desirability or undesirability;
(2)
Has found the proposal not to be contrary to the intent of this ordinance; and
(3)
Has approved the use as specified.
Street. A thoroughfare which affords traffic circulation and principal means of access to abutting property, including avenue, place, way, drive, lane, boulevard, highway, road and any other thoroughfare, except an alley. A public street is a street accepted by dedication or otherwise by the board of county commissioners. A private street is a street which has not been dedicated to the county and not so accepted for routine maintenance purposes.
Structure. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on or in the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among other things, structures include buildings, manufactured homes, billboards, swimming pools and fallout shelters, but does not include walls or fences.
Swimming pool. A swimming pool used solely by the owner and friends without payment of any fee.
Temporary care giving residence. A temporary residence in which a care giver or care receiver may dwell. The placement of all such units shall adhere to the requirements of section 3-29.
Trailer, travel type. A vehicular portable structure designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation uses, which is identified on the unit by the manufacturer as a "camper" or "travel" trailer.
Variance. A "variance" is a relaxation of the dimensional and/or development standards of the land development ordinance that will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the intentional actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in unnecessary and undue hardship. (See section 13.)
Yard, front. That area of a lot lying between the abutting street right-of-way line and the principal building of the lot and extending across the front of a lot from side lot line to side lot line.
Yard, rear. That area of a lot extending across the rear of a lot from side lot line to side lot line and lying between the rear lot line and the principal building on the lot.
Yard, side. That area of a lot between the side lot line and the principal building on the lot extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
(Ord. of 8-23-2003, ยง 2)
