APPENDIX E - LOCAL ACTS AND LOCAL CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— This appendix consists of various constitutional amendments of local application and local acts relating to Berrien County that were deemed advisable to be included in this publication. The source of each section is stated in the history note following the section. Unless otherwise stated, the presence of more than one act in a history note indicates that the section is derived from the first listed act as amended by the other acts listed in the history note. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, capitalization, citations to state statutes and session laws, and expression of numbers in text has been used. Catchlines have been added or adjusted as necessary to accurately reflect the contents of the sections. Textual references to other sections of the same act are altered so as to reference sections of this compilation. The internal numbering or lettering scheme within sections has been made consistent with the scheme used in the Code; however, deleted paragraphs are reserved to maintain sequence. Sections providing for legal status (i.e., severability, repealers and effective dates) and enacting clauses and similar language has been deleted. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; personnel, ch. 42; personnel regulations, app. B; classification/compensation plan, app. C.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 2-1—2-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

Sec. 2-31. - Districts; election of members.
The County of Berrien shall be divided into three districts, to be known as commissioners districts and composed of the following militia districts in said county, to wit: District No. 1 shall be composed of the militia districts known as the Upper Tenth, the Lower Tenth, Ray City and Lois Districts; District No. 2 shall be composed of the militia districts known as the Nashville District and New River District; District No. 3 shall be composed of the militia districts known as the Jordan, Enigma and Alapaha Districts. One commissioner of the board of commissioners for said county shall be elected from each of the commissioners districts aforesaid. He shall be a resident and qualified voter of the commissioners district from which he is elected and shall be voted for and elected by the qualified voters of the entire county. In primary elections conducted by any political party the commissioner in each district receiving the highest votes shall be declared the nominee and in general election the commissioner in each district receiving the highest vote shall be declared elected.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 284), page 499, § 2; 1937 Ga. Laws (Act No. 77), page 1250, § 1)
Sec. 2-32. - Commissioners' term of office.
(a)
This article shall not change the terms of the commissioners in office on July 1, 1996.
(b)
The person elected to serve as commissioner from District 1 in 1996 shall take office on January 1, 1997, and serve for a term of four years and until a successor for such district is elected and qualified. The person elected to serve as commissioner from District 2 in 1996 shall take office on January 1, 1997, and serve for a term of four years and until a successor for such district is elected and qualified. The person elected to serve as commissioner from District 3 in 1996 shall take office on January 1, 1997, and serve for a term of two years and until a successor for such district is elected and qualified.
(c)
Successors to commissioners elected in accordance with subsection (b) of this section shall be elected for terms of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. Thereafter, commissioners shall be elected for terms of four years.
(1937 Ga. Laws (Act No. 77), page 1250, § 2; 1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 592), page 3659, § 2)
Sec. 2-33. - Bond; oath; chairman.
Said commissioners shall each give bond in the sum of $1,000.00, with sufficient securities, to be approved by and payable to the judge of the probate court of said County of Berrien and his successors in office, and conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of their position as said commissioners, and shall take an oath before the judge of the probate court of said county to faithfully discharge their duties. Said commissioners shall, at the first meeting of the board, after each election, elect a chairman who shall hold office for two years and until his successor is elected; said chairman shall preside at all meetings of the board, and shall sign all processes, notices or orders or other documents in writing requiring the official signature of said board. In his absence the board may elect a chairman pro tempore, with like powers and authority.
(1902 Ga. Laws (Act No. 119), page 203, § 4)
Sec. 2-34. - Compensation of commissioners.
(a)
Until January 1, 1997, the members of the Board of Commissioners of Berrien County shall have the authority to fix their own compensation, provided that the aggregate compensation to be received by all members of the board shall not exceed $750.00 per month, notwithstanding any other provisions of this article to the contrary.
(b)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article to the contrary, beginning on January 1, 1997, each member of the board of commissioners shall be compensated at the rate of $500.00 monthly.
(c)
In addition to the salary provided by this section, the members of the board of commissioners shall be reimbursed from the funds of the county for all actual and necessary travel expenses when traveling outside the limits of the county for county purposes.
(1964 (Ex. Sess.) Ga. Laws (Act No. 36), page 2177, § 1; 1973 Ga. Laws (Act No. 441), page 2810, § 1; 1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 592), page 3659, § 1)
Sec. 2-35. - Authority to fix salaries of employees.
Beginning the first of the month following the passage of the bill codified in this section, the Board of Commissioners of Berrien County shall have full authority to fix salaries and fees of its employees, including county attorneys.
(1933 Ga. Laws (Act No. 211), page 403, § 1)
Sec. 2-36. - Authority to appoint clerk.
Said Board of County Commissioners of Berrien County shall have the right to name as clerk for said board, one of their own number, or one not a member of said board to act as clerk thereof.
(1919 Ga. Laws (Act No. 355), page 589, § 1; 1920 Ga. Laws (Act No. 677), page 452, § 1)
Sec. 2-37. - Duties of clerk.
The clerk of said board shall keep all minutes and do all clerical work for said board of commissioners.
(1919 Ga. Laws (Act No. 355), page 589, § 2; 1920 Ga. Laws (Act No. 677), page 452, § 2)
Sec. 2-38. - Composition.
Said board of commissioners shall be composed of three freeholders of said county and qualified voters of said county and state. Said board of commissioners shall be elected at the regular election for county officers and members of the general assembly in the general election in 1936, and every four years thereafter, and in the same manner and under the same rules of law governing the election of all county officers and every four years thereafter, and shall hold their office for a term of four years, beginning with the expiration of the term of office of the present commissioners of said county, and until their successors are elected and qualified; and said board shall perform all duties hereinafter prescribed, and in the event of the death, resignation or disability of any of the board or persons who may be elected, said vacancy or vacancies shall be filled by the remaining commissioners in office until other commissioner or commissioners are duly elected and qualified, which election shall take place at the next regular election for county officers.
(1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 157), page 578, § 1)
Secs. 2-39—2-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-151 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-61. - Office of county treasurer abolished.
From and after January 1, 1917, the office of County Treasurer of Berrien County shall be and the same is hereby abolished.
(1916 Ga. Laws (Act No. 311), page 360, § 1)
Secs. 2-62—2-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CLERK OF SUPERIOR COURT

Sec. 2-81. - Collection and disposition of fees, fines and other moneys.
The Clerk of the Superior Court of Berrien County shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys, and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed as compensation for services in any capacity in his office, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public moneys, and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the 15th day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received. At the time of each such monthly payment into the county treasury, said officer shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, of all such funds received during the preceding month by said officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of money collected and the source thereof.
(1984 Ga. Laws (Act No. 779), page 4168, § 2)
Sec. 2-82. - Payment of operating expenses.
The necessary operating expenses for the office of said clerk of the superior court, expressly including the compensation of all personnel and employees, shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture, utilities, and equipment, and the repair, replacement, and maintenance thereof, as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of his office, shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. The determination of such requirements shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of Berrien County.
(1984 Ga. Laws (Act No. 779), page 4168, § 3)
Secs. 2-83—2-100. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - SHERIFF[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Law enforcement, ch. 30.

Sec. 2-101. - Fee system of compensation abolished.
The present mode of compensating the Sheriff of Berrien County, known as the fee system, is hereby abolished, and in lieu thereof, an annual salary for such officer is prescribed as hereinafter provided.
(1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 3), page 2003, § 1)
Sec. 2-102. - Collection and disposition of fees, fines and other moneys.
After the effective date of the act codified in this article, said officer shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, monies and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed him as compensation for services in any capacity, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public monies and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the 15th day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received. At the time of each such monthly payment into the county treasury, the sheriff shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, of all such funds received during the preceding month by such officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of money collected and the source thereof.
(1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 3), page 2003, § 3)
Sec. 2-103. - Deputies, clerk and other employees.
The sheriff shall have the authority to appoint three full deputies and one clerk to assist him in the discharge of the official duties of his office. He shall also be authorized to employ such other personnel to assist him as the governing authority of Berrien County shall authorize, and they shall receive such compensation as said governing authority shall authorize. All such personnel's compensation shall be paid from county funds. The aggregate compensation of the full-time deputies shall not exceed $22,000.00 per annum, and the clerk shall receive an annual salary of $3,600.00. The governing authority of Berrien County shall have the authority to increase the compensation of the deputies and clerk above such sums. All of the personnel within the sheriff's office shall be deemed to be county employees entitled to all of the benefits and perquisites of county employees and entitled to participate in all programs available to county employees. It shall be within the sole power and authority of the sheriff, during his term of office, to designate and name the person or persons who shall be employed as such deputies, clerks, assistants or other employees, and to prescribe their duties and assignments, and to remove or replace any of such employees at will and within his sole discretion.
(1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 3), page 2003, § 2; 1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1199), page 3198, § 1; 1973 Ga. Laws (Act No. 439), page 2805, § 2)
Sec. 2-104. - Payment of operating expenses.
The necessary operating expenses of the sheriff's office, expressly including the compensation of all personnel and employees, shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purposes. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture, utilities and equipment, except as is specifically provided for herein, and the repair, replacement and maintenance thereof, as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of said office, shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose.
(1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 3), page 2003, § 5)
Sec. 2-105. - Vehicles.
The governing authority of Berrien County shall furnish and make available to the sheriff's office four motor vehicles which shall be appropriately equipped for law enforcement purposes. All expenses connected with the purchase, operation and maintenance of such vehicles shall be borne by Berrien County. In lieu of the county furnishing and/or maintaining such vehicles, the sheriff and governing authority of Berrien County shall be authorized to contract with each other respecting such matters.
(1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 3), page 2003, § 6; 1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1199), page 3198, § 3; 1973 Ga. Laws (Act No. 439), page 2805, § 3)
Sec. 2-106. - Contingent expense allowance; uniform allowance.
The sheriff shall receive from Berrien County the sum of $42.00 per month as a contingent expense allowance. In addition thereto, he shall receive from county funds $600.00 each year for the purpose of purchasing and maintaining his uniforms.
(1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 3), page 2003, § 7; 1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1199), page 3198, § 4; 1973 Ga. Laws (Act No. 439), page 2805, § 4)
Sec. 2-107. - Reimbursement for expenses of transporting prisoner from outside state.
When expenses are incurred by the sheriff in transporting a prisoner from outside the territorial limits of this state, by order of the court, Berrien County shall reimburse the sheriff for his actual expenses incurred therein.
(1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 3), page 2003, § 8)
Sec. 2-108. - Payment of expenses for operation of county jail.
All expenses incurred in connection with maintaining and operating the county jail and in feeding the prisoners therein shall be borne by Berrien County.
(1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 3), page 2003, § 9)
Secs. 2-109—2-130. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - TAX COMMISSIONER

Sec. 2-131. - Consolidation of offices of tax receiver and tax collector.
The offices of Tax Receiver and Tax Collector of Berrien County, Georgia, are hereby abolished and the duties of the two offices aforesaid are hereby consolidated into one office.
(1931 Ga. Laws (Act No. 9), page 390, § 1)
Sec. 2-132. - Office of tax commissioner established.
The office of County Tax Commissioner of Berrien County, Georgia, is hereby created in lieu of said abolished office, and the rights, duties, and liabilities of the said office of County Tax Commissioner of Berrien County shall be the same as the rights, duties, and liabilities of the tax receiver and tax collector of said county, so far as the same are applicable.
(1931 Ga. Laws (Act No. 9), page 390, § 2)
Sec. 2-133. - Taxes currently due and payable to remain in effect.
All taxes that are due and payable at the time the provisions of this division become effective, and all tax fi. fas. theretofore issued by the Tax Collector of Berrien County, Georgia, shall have full force and effect, and be collectible as issued.
(1931 Ga. Laws (Act No. 9), page 390, § 8)
Sec. 2-134. - Compensation.
The tax commissioner shall receive for his or her services as such an annual salary in an amount as calculated pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-183, payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of Berrien County.
(1931 Ga. Laws (Act No. 9), page 390, § 9; 1945 Ga. Laws (Act No. 353), page 1078, § 3; 1968 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1143), page 3473, § 1; 1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1196), page 3188, § 1; 1973 Ga. Laws (Act No. 440), page 2808, § 1; 2000 Ga. Laws (Act No. 563), page 3906, § 1)
Sec. 2-135. - Deputy and other employees; payment of operating expenses.
The tax commissioner shall be authorized to employ one full-time deputy to assist him in discharging the official duties of his office. Such deputy shall receive an annual salary of $5,600.00, payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of Berrien County. Such compensation may be increased by the governing authority of Berrien County. The tax commissioner shall be authorized to employ such additional personnel to assist him as the governing authority of Berrien County shall authorize. Such personnel shall receive such compensation as said governing authority shall approve. All such deputies and employees shall be county employees and shall be entitled to all of the benefits and perquisites of other county employees and entitled to participate in all programs provided for such employees. The necessary operating expenses of the tax commissioner's office shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purposes. All supplies, materials, equipment, furnishings, furniture and utilities, as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of said office, shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. The determination of such requirements shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of Berrien County.
(1973 Ga. Laws (Act No. 440), page 2808, § 2)
Editor's note— The above section was added by the 1973 act as 1931 Ga. Laws (Act No. 9), page 390, § 9A.
Sec. 2-136. - Collection and disposition of fees, fines and other moneys.
Except as provided in this section, all fees, commissions, costs, fines, emoluments, and perquisites of any kind received and collected by the tax commissioner shall be received, collected, and held by the tax commissioner as public funds belonging to Berrien County. Once each month the tax commissioner shall turn over to the fiscal officer of said county all funds collected by the tax commissioner with a detailed itemized statement showing the sources from which such funds were collected. It is specifically provided that the salary provided in this division for the tax commissioner shall be in lieu of all fees, commissions, costs, fines, emoluments, and perquisites of any kind except as otherwise specifically required by the general laws of this state.
(1931 Ga. Laws (Act No. 9), page 390, § 10; 1945 Ga. Laws (Act No. 353), page 1078, § 4; 1953 Ga. Laws (Act No. 691), page 2653, §§ 1, 2, 3; 1968 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1143), page 3473, § 1; 1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1196), page 3188, § 2; 2000 Ga. Laws (Act No. 563), page 3906, § 2)
Secs. 2-137—2-170. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - BOARDS AND AUTHORITIES[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Boards, commissions and authorities, § 2-231 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-171—2-190. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BERRIEN COUNTY INDUSTRIAL BUILDING AUTHORITY

Sec. 2-191. - Established; powers.
(a)
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in Berrien County, Georgia to be known as the Berrien County Industrial Building Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of Berrien County and a public corporation and which in this division is hereafter referred to as the "authority."
(b)
The authority shall consist of five members. The president of the Berrien County Chamber of Commerce, the Mayor of the City of Nashville, and the Chairman of the Berrien County Board of Commissioners shall be ex officio members of the authority. In addition the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenue of Berrien County shall appoint two members and shall be eligible for a term of five years and shall be eligible for reappointment. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by the said board of county commissioners. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum and a majority may act for the authority in any matter. No vacancy shall impair the power of the authority to act.
(c)
The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of Berrien County.
(d)
The powers of the authority shall include, but not be limited to, the power:
(1)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts;
(2)
To borrow money, to issue notes, bonds and revenue certificates, to execute trust agreements or indentures, and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor;
(3)
To contract with political subdivisions of the State of Georgia and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
(4)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporation except such as are inconsistent with this division, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the authority;
(5)
To encourage and promote the expansion and development of industrial and commercial facilities in Berrien County so as to relieve insofar as possible unemployment within its boundaries, and to that end to acquire by purchase or gift any building or structure within the limits of Berrien County, suitable for and intended for use as a factory, mill, shop, processing plant, assembly plant, or fabricating plant, including all necessary and appurtenant lands and appurtenances thereto, and all necessary or useful furnishings machinery and equipment. Such acquisition may be through the acquisition of land and the construction thereon of a building, including the demolition of existing structures, or through the acquisition of an existing building and the remodeling, renovating, reconstruction, furnishing and equipping of such building;
(6)
No building acquired hereunder shall be operated by the authority but shall be leased or sold to one or more persons, firms or corporations. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due in not more than 30 years from the date of transfer of possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all costs of operating and maintaining the building or buildings and to pay rentals or installments sufficient, together with other revenues which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all bonds, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which the authority may have incurred in connection with the undertaking;
(7)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(8)
To designate officers to sign and act for the authority generally or in any specific matter;
(9)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the authority as herein stated.
(e)
The authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against the State of Georgia or Berrien County.
(f)
The members of the authority shall receive no compensation for their services to the authority.
(g)
In order to finance any undertaking within the scope of its power or to refund any bonds then outstanding, the authority is hereby authorized to issue bonds bearing rate or rates of interest and maturing at the years and amounts determined by the authority and the procedure of validation, issuance and delivery shall be in all respects in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law (O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.), as if said obligations had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder; provided, however, that any property, real or personal, of the authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered as security for any lawful debt of the authority. The authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture not in conflict with the provisions of this division to provide security for any bonds issued as provided herein, and such trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or under any term or condition under which such bonds are issued. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to create a right to compel any exercise of the taxing power of Berrien County to pay any such bonds or the interest thereon nor to enforce payment thereof against any property of Berrien County.
(h)
The authority may authorize additional bonds, for extensions and permanent improvements to any industrial building acquired hereunder, to be placed in escrow and to be negotiated from time to time as proceeds for that purpose may become necessary. Bonds so placed in escrow shall, when sold and delivered, have such standing with the bonds of the same issue as may be provided in the authorizing proceedings.
(i)
No bonds except refunding bonds shall be issued hereunder unless the authority shall have found and declared that:
(1)
The undertaking for which the bonds are to be issued will increase employment in Berrien County.
(2)
The lessee or purchaser of the building or buildings involved will not by virtue of establishing operations in said county, reduce the number of employees employed by said lessee or purchaser elsewhere in the State of Georgia.
(j)
No moneys derived by the authority from any source other than gifts and contributions from private individuals, firms or corporations shall at any time be used for entertainment, or other promotional expenses.
(k)
Should said authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Berrien County subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
(l)
This division is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare industry and trade within Berrien County and reducing unemployment to the greatest extent possible, and this division and any law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of these purposes.
(m)
The amendment codified in this division shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the governor and the first members of the authority shall be appointed within 30 days after such proclamation.
(n)
The general assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the authority. The authority shall be an instrumentality of the authority [sic]. The authority shall be an instrumentality of Berrien County and the scope of its operations shall be limited to the territory embraced within said county. The general assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the authority nor the scope of its operations beyond such limits.
(1962 Ga. Laws (Act No. 153), page 319, § 1)
Editor's note— The above amendment to Ga. Const. (1945), art. V, § IX was continued in full force and effect by 1986 Ga. Laws (Act No. 867), page 3877.
Secs. 2-192—2-210. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - BERRIEN COUNTY AIRPORT AUTHORITY

Sec. 2-211. - Established.
There is created in and for Berrien County an airport authority which shall be known as the "Berrien County Airport Authority." The authority shall be a public body corporate and politic and shall have jurisdiction within the territorial limits of the county. As used in this division, the word "authority" shall mean the Berrien County Airport Authority.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 131), page 3873, § 1)
Sec. 2-212. - Composition; oath; officers; meetings.
(a)
The authority shall be composed of three members who shall be selected by the Board of Commissioners of Berrien County.
(b)
Each member of the authority shall be a resident of Berrien County, shall be at least 21 years of age, and shall be knowledgeable about and genuinely interested in aviation. No member shall have a commercial aviation interest nor be an elected city, county, or state official.
(c)
The members of the authority shall serve without compensation.
(d)
The term of office of each member of the authority shall be four years, provided that each of the initial members shall have initial terms which shall expire on December 31, 1988.
(e)
Vacancies on the authority shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment, and any person appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the term so vacated.
(f)
Prior to assuming duties as a member of the authority, each member shall take substantially the following oath:
"I do solemnly swear that I shall faithfully and impartially and well and truly discharge the duties of a member of the Berrien County Airport Authority in all matters which require my official action to the best of my knowledge and skill, and I will so act as, in my judgment, will be most conducive to the welfare and best interest of the operation of airports and to the entire county, so help me God."
Said oath shall be administered by the chairman of the Board of Commissioners.
(g)
The authority shall elect one of its members as chairman and one as vice-chairman. The authority shall elect a person as secretary, who need not be a member of the authority. Such officers of the authority shall serve for a term of one year. The authority shall vote upon all matters and a majority vote of such members present shall be mandatory. The authority shall have the power to delegate its functions to committees composed of the membership of the authority; however, no contracts or agreements shall be binding upon the authority until they have been approved by a majority of members present and such approval has been recorded in the minutes of the authority. Two members of the authority shall constitute a quorum.
(h)
The authority shall meet monthly and at such time and place as may be designated by the chairman. Other meetings may be held at any time on the call of any two members of the authority when, in their judgment, the interest of the authority and of the county demands it.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 131), page 3873, § 2)
Sec. 2-213. - General powers.
(a)
The authority shall be deemed to exercise public and essential governmental functions and shall have all the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate its purpose and project, including, but not limited to, the power and authority, separately or jointly, to acquire, establish, construct, expand, own, lease, control, equip, improve, maintain, operate, regulate, and police airports and landing fields for use of aircraft within the limits of Berrien County.
(b)
The authority is authorized:
(1)
To promulgate rules and regulations for the operations authorized by subsection (a) of this section;
(2)
To sue and be sued;
(3)
To have a seal and alter the same;
(4)
To make and execute contracts and other instruments necessary to the exercise of the power of authority;
(5)
To acquire by the exercise of the right of eminent domain any property essential in the determination of the authority for the purposes of the authority;
(6)
To sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign, pledge, or dispose of any real or personal property or interest therein;
(7)
To mortgage, pledge, and assign any revenues, incomes, tolls, charges, or fees received by the authority;
(8)
To issue bonds of indebtedness for the purpose of providing funds for carrying out the duties of the authority, provided such bonds shall not extend beyond the period of 20 years from the date of issuance thereof, and, provided, further, that such bonds shall be payable from the revenues realized from the projects of the authority or any part thereof;
(9)
To borrow money for any corporate purposes provided that such borrowing of money shall be in compliance with section 2-216 of this division;
(10)
To appoint officers, agents, or employees;
(11)
To make use of any and all facilities, funds, and other benefits afforded by the federal government or by the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality thereof; and
(12)
To exercise any and all powers now or hereafter possessed by private corporations performing similar functions.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 131), page 3873, § 3)
Sec. 2-214. - Power to make charges and assessments.
The authority shall not have power or authority to levy any tax of any kind for the purpose of providing revenue for its operations and the performance of its functions. However, the authority is granted the right to make such charges and assessments as it may deem appropriate for the use of any and all airport and aircraft facilities located in Berrien County; and any and all revenues produced and received by the authority from such purposes shall be used and utilized by the authority as it may deem appropriate in the performance of the functions stated in this division. For the purposes of this section, the term "tax" means only a general assessment throughout the county and shall not apply to any charges made by said authority for the use of the services and facilities upon airports as referred to in this division.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 131), page 3873, § 4)
Sec. 2-215. - Use of funds; bonds.
The authority shall not operate or construct any project for profit and shall fix rates and charges consistent with this declaration of policy and such as will produce revenues only in amounts, in the opinion of the authority, sufficient together with other funds of the authority to pay principal and interest upon any indebtedness or certificate of obligation, to provide for maintenance and operation of the project in a modern, safe, and current manner, and to provide reasonable reserves for the expansion of the facilities and services of the authority. Any revenue bonds issued by the authority shall be issued in compliance with O.C.G.A. tit. 36 ch. 82, art. 3 (O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.) known as the "Revenue Bond Law." No such bond shall be a personal or general obligation of any of the members of the authority, and none of such members, nor any person executing such bonds on behalf of the authority, shall be personally liable thereon.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 131), page 3873, § 5)
Sec. 2-216. - Reports.
The authority shall make and cause to be made to the Board of Commissioners of Berrien County at least annually or at such other reasonable times as may be required by the board of commissioners, a written certified auditor's report in duplicate showing the operation of the Berrien County Airport Authority. Such report shall contain and set forth the true condition of the affairs of the authority, both from a financial standpoint and from the standpoint of the services rendered, including receipts and disbursements, sources of receipts, and purposes of disbursements, any and all indebtedness, cash on hand, accounts receivable, and accounts payable. Such reports shall be signed by the chairman of the authority and shall be filed and preserved in the office of the Board of Commissioners of Berrien County. The authority shall immediately furnish to the Board of Commissioners of Berrien County any and all information requested in writing as to the operation of the authority, its projects, and actions.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 131), page 3873, § 6)
Chapter 6 - COURTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; civil emergencies and emergency management, ch. 14; personnel, ch. 42.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 6-1—2-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MAGISTRATE COURT

Sec. 6-31. - Intent.
It is the intent of this article to implement certain local prerogatives authorized by O.C.G.A. tit. 15, ch. 10 (O.C.G.A. § 15-10-1 et seq.).
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 78), page 372, § 1)
Sec. 6-32. - Term of current chief magistrate.
The person serving as chief magistrate of the Magistrate Court of Berrien County immediately prior to the effective date of the act codified in this article shall continue to serve out that person's term of office. The term of such person holding this office under the original appointment will expire December 31, 1986.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 78), page 372, § 2)
Sec. 6-33. - Appointment and term of successor chief magistrates.
All successor chief magistrates of this county shall be appointed by the judge or judges of the Superior Court of Berrien County for a term of four years and until a successor is duly appointed and qualified. The first regular term shall begin on January 1, 1987; the term shall be for four years. If the judges cannot agree on the person to be appointed, then the chief judge of the Alapaha Judicial Circuit shall make the appointment. Any vacancy occurring in the position of chief magistrate shall be filled by appointment in the same manner and for the unexpired term.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 78), page 372, § 3)
Sec. 6-34. - Law library fee.
(a)
In addition to all other legal costs, a sum not to exceed $2.00 per case shall be collected for the benefit of the Berrien County Law Library.
(b)
The chief magistrate or the clerk of the magistrate court if so instructed shall collect the law library fees and remit the same each month to the treasurer or trustees of the law library.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 78), page 372, § 4)
