Chapter 54 - SUBDIVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance dedicating, accepting or vacating any plat or subdivision saved from repeal, § 1-11(9); buildings and building regulations, ch. 10; environment, ch. 22; floods, ch. 26; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 34; roads and bridges, ch. 46.
State Law reference— County planning and zoning, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ IV; highway department approval of subdivision, O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 6, art. 5, pt. 2 (O.C.G.A. § 36-6-150 et seq.).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 54-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abutting property means any property that is immediately adjacent or contiguous to property proposed to be subdivided or that is located immediately across any road or public right-of-way.
Alley means a public right-of-way, not intended to be a vehicular arterial or to provide the primary means of access to abutting property, but used for service access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting a public street.
Applicant means any person who submits subdivision plans to the county for the purpose of obtaining approval thereof.
Architect means a qualified person registered and currently licensed to practice architecture in the state.
Building line means a line beyond which no foundation wall or part of the structure of any building shall project, with the exception of roof overhangs, walkways, and the subsurface projection of footings; provided, however, that such overhang does not exceed six feet and does not encroach upon the adjacent property or right-of-way.
Chairman means the chairman of the board of commissioners.
Comprehensive plan means the comprehensive plan for the county, approved by the planning commission and/or the board of commissioners, which may consist of the major thoroughfare plan, general land use plan, street and road classification plan, and other maps, data, and descriptive matter for the physical development of the county or any portions thereof, including any amendments, extensions, or additions thereto as adopted by the board of commissioners.
County health department means the county board of health, the county health department and/or the state department of human resources. The words "county health department" and/or "county environmental officer" are used in this chapter to denote the fact that all matters pertaining to health regulations shall be directed to that official or his staff.
Crosswalk means a right-of-way within a block dedicated to public use for pedestrian use only and so designed as to provide access to adjacent streets or lots.
Cul-de-sac means a street having only one end open for access to another street, the other end being terminated by a turnaround as specified in this chapter.
Developer means the same as subdivider.
Development means the act or process of erecting buildings or structures, or of making improvements to property, or laying out and dividing land.
Easement means a grant by the owner of land for the use of such land by others, including public usage, for a specific purpose, e.g., drainage easements and water and sewer easements.
Improvement plan means the second stage of plat or subdivision plan review, as described in section 54-53.
Land characteristics means a soils inventory of the area proposed for development. The inventory will include a soils map and identification of soil types. This information may be found in the Soil Survey of Berrien and Lanier Counties, Georgia, 1973, U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Lot means a portion or parcel of land separated from other portions or parcels by description, as on a subdivision plat or record of survey map or as described by metes and bounds, and intended for transfer of ownership or for building development. For the purpose of this chapter, the term does not include any portion of a dedicated right-of-way.
Lot, corner, means a parcel of land at the junction of and fronting on two or more streets.
Lot width means the distance measured straight between the side lot lines, measured at the intersection of the building line, which shall be parallel to the street right-of-way line.
MSL means mean sea level.
Planning commission means the Greater Berrien County Planning Commission.
Plat means a map, generally of a subdivision, showing the location, boundaries and ownership of individual properties.
Plat, final, means the final stage of plat or subdivision plan review, as described in section 54-54.
Plat, preliminary, means the first stage of plat or subdivision plan review, as described in section 54-52.
Public right-of-way means a portion of land being used as a public street, road, thoroughfare, crosswalk, pipeway, or drainage canal, and/or for other similar uses and designated by means of right-of-way deed.
Public water and sewage system means a system owned and operated by the county or one of its incorporated municipalities.
Road superintendent means the official to whom the responsibilities normally associated with this chapter have been delegated by the board of commissioners.
Staff development review committee means a committee of public employees with specific technical expertise who are officially responsible to the board of commissioners for various public management functions. Under this chapter, the staff development review committee shall assist the planning commission and board of commissioners in the review of the numerous technical functions associated with the land subdivision process. This committee shall be chaired by the county administrator and will include the building inspector, the road superintendent or his designee, the consulting county engineer, the environmental officer, utility department heads and other staff as determined by the county administrator.
Street means a public right-of-way which provides vehicular access to abutting property.
Arterial street means a street which is designated as such on the major thoroughfare plan and which is intended to provide swift and safe movement of traffic through the county.
Collector street means a street which is designated as such on the major thoroughfare plan and which is intended to collect traffic from local streets and direct it safely to streets.
Dead-end street means a street having only one end open for access to another street, the other end being abruptly terminated with no turnaround.
Local street means a street used for local circulation in areas providing access to abutting property.
Marginal access street means a street generally parallel to and adjacent to an arterial street providing access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
Subdivider means any person or any agent thereof who undertakes or proposes to undertake the subdivision of land so as to constitute a subdivision.
Subdivision means all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into four or more lots, parcels, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or building development, including all division of land involving a new street or a change of width or alignment in existing streets, and including resubdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relating to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided; provided, however, that the following are not included within this definition:
(1)
Where located on an existing public road or street, the combination or recombination of previously platted lots, where the total number of lots is not increased, and the resultant lots are equal to the current standards of the county as determined by the staff development review committee.
(2)
The public acquisition of land.
(3)
The sale of public land.
Should a developer initially plat less than four lots and at some later date apply to add additional lots so as to avoid having to follow these regulations, the entire area that the developer wishes to plat will be considered one subdivision and all subdivision rules and regulations shall apply.
Tax assessor means the county board of tax assessors.
Tract means a portion of land with definite and ascertainable limits or boundaries. See the definition of Lot.
Utility means any community service available to the public by means of an overhead or underground distribution or collection system, such as electricity, telephone, water, gas, and sewage disposal.
Variance means the relaxation of a dimensional requirement or design standard described within this chapter as it applies to the development of a particular tract or parcel of land. None of the required minimum improvements required by this chapter shall be subject to variance.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, art. II)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 54-2. - Purpose.
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority contained in the state constitution, as amended, for the following purposes:
(1)
Encourage economically sound and stable land development.
(2)
Ensure the provision of required streets, utilities, and other facilities and services to land developments.
(3)
Ensure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in land developments.
(4)
Ensure the provision of needed public open spaces and building sites in land developments through the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational, and other public purposes.
(5)
Ensure that land is developed in conformity with the comprehensive plan for the county.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 1-2)
Sec. 54-3. - Jurisdiction.
This chapter shall govern all subdivision of land within the unincorporated area of the county.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 1-3)
Sec. 54-4. - Variances.
In cases of undue hardship under this chapter, any property owner may petition the planning commission for a variance. All variance requests will require a public hearing in the same manner as an amendment. None of the items listed in article IV of this chapter shall be subject to variance.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 9-4)
Sec. 54-5. - Violations; penalties.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to convey or improve property by the construction of buildings on lots of any land subdivision which has not been approved and recorded as provided in this chapter, except those parcels recorded prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to record a subdivision plat or, once recorded, to make any change thereon whatsoever which has not been approved by the board of commissioners, planning commission, county engineer, road superintendent, and county health department in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(c)
After due notice has been given, each and every day's violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 8-1)
Sec. 54-6. - Platting authority.
The planning commission shall be the official platting authority, and no plat of a land subdivision shall be recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county unless it has the approval of the planning commission inscribed thereon. The filing or recording of a plat of a subdivision without the approval of the appropriate reviewing agencies and/or authorities as required by this chapter is declared to be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 3-1)
Sec. 54-7. - Use of plat.
The transfer or sale of land by reference to, exhibition of, or other use of a plat of a subdivision that has not been given final approval by the planning commission and recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county is prohibited, and the description by metes and bounds in such an instrument of transfer or other document shall not exempt the transaction from prescribed penalties.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 3-2)
Sec. 54-8. - Opening and improving public streets.
The board of commissioners shall not accept, lay out, open, improve, grade, pave, or light any street, or lay any utility lines in any street, which has not attained the status of a public street prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, unless such street corresponds to the street location shown on an approved subdivision plat or the major thoroughfare plan; provided that the board of commissioners may accept, lay out, open, and improve any street not so platted if it first submits such action to the planning commission at public hearing for its review and comment and adopts the proposal as an amendment to its major thoroughfare plan. Developers of subdivisions will be solely responsible for acquiring all rights-of-way so that if the county needs to perform maintenance rights-of-way will be in place.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 3-3)
Sec. 54-9. - Issuance of building permits.
The county will not issue building permits for any parcel of land, lot, tract, or building site subject to this chapter that has not been designated and recorded as required by this chapter.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 3-4)
Sec. 54-10. - Interpretation of requirements.
The requirements of this chapter, as they may apply to a proposed land subdivision, shall be officially interpreted by the staff development review committee, which is officially represented by the county administrator. In cases which the subdivider disagrees with the official interpretation of the regulations in this chapter, the developer may appeal pursuant to section 54-4.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 3-6)
Secs. 54-11—54-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - REVIEW AND APPROVAL
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 54-31. - Pre-application procedure.
(a)
The subdivider may visit with the county staff development review committee and discuss the effect of the comprehensive plan, the major thoroughfare plan and other official plans on the subdivision, as well as general design standards, zoning, and related matters.
(b)
The subdivider may submit pre-application plans and data for review, advice, and assistance by the staff development review committee, the county engineer and the county health department. Professional assistance at this early stage may save time and effort during later steps.
(c)
Pre-application plans and data should include:
(1)
A location sketch map, showing the site in relation to the section of the county in which it is located.
(2)
A simple sketch plan on a topographic survey showing the general layout of lots, streets, major drainageways, and other features in relation to existing conditions on the site and the surrounding street system.
(3)
General subdivision information, including data on proposed or existing covenants, wooded areas, available and proposed community facilities, and utilities, typical lot size, etc., and land characteristics as defined.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, art. IV)
Secs. 54-32—54-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - APPROVAL STAGES

Sec. 54-51. - Generally.
Subdivisions shall be reviewed and approved in the following stages as provided in this division:
(1)
Preliminary plat.
(2)
Improvement plans.
(3)
Final plat.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, art. IV)
Sec. 54-52. - Preliminary plat.
(a)
Purpose. The purpose of the preliminary plat is to safeguard the subdivider from unnecessary loss of time and expense in preparation of a subdivision plat which does not conform with the specifications of this chapter. The preliminary plat requires only approximate accuracy of scale and dimension. Public agencies having jurisdiction will review preliminary plats regarding matters within their jurisdiction. During the review process, the subdivider or his agent may be called upon for consultation.
(b)
Subdivisions not requiring new streets or water or sewer facilities. All subdivisions which do not involve the construction or opening of new streets or water or sewer facilities may be accepted by the county administrator in the form of a final plat, provided that essential data required by the reviewing agencies to ensure compliance with the intent of this chapter is submitted. The final plat shall be reviewed by the staff development review committee and planning commission before submittal to the board of commissioners.
(c)
Filing. Any person desiring to subdivide land shall file with the county administrator five copies of the preliminary plat accompanied by a letter of application. The letter of application will describe the proposed subdivision at length and will also state for what purposes easements may be utilized, such as water, streets, power or phone maintenance. There will not be any restrictions on the use of easements. The letter of application shall contain the name and address of the developer and his agents, the zoning of the property to be subdivided, whether or not the subdivision will be developed in phases, plans for potential annexation, and plans for serving the proposed subdivision with sewer and water facilities. The plat shall be prepared in accordance with this chapter and with applicable county specifications by a registered land surveyor who is licensed under the laws of the state. The preliminary plat shall be deemed filed with the planning commission when it is filed with the county administrator. At the time of filing, a certificate of filing shall be provided to the subdivider and shall include the time and date of filing. The county administrator, working in conjunction with the subdivision development review committee, shall have authority to reject the preliminary plat if they find it does not comply with this chapter. If rejected, the county administrator and the subdivision development review committee shall provide the subdivider with a written statement specifying all the respects in which the plat fails to comply. Filing of the preliminary plat shall be accomplished at least 20 days prior to the regular planning commission meeting at which it is to be considered. The preliminary plat shall include:
(1)
Title block and north arrow. The plat will show the name of the proposed subdivision, its location, the name, address and registration number of the surveyor preparing the plat and the date of the plat. A north arrow shall be included with a notation referencing the bearing to magnetic north, astronomical north or grid north.
(2)
General layout. The plat shall show information as to the proposed street layout and widths, layout of lots with a notation as to the minimum size and width of lots, and any proposed open space. Any lands to be dedicated will be clearly identified. Plat scale, total acreage of the site and total number of lots created shall also be indicated. Lot and block identification and building setback lines shall also be indicated.
(3)
Topography. The plat shall show existing contour lines dashed and any proposed contour lines solid, with both sets of lines to be at two-foot intervals, mean sea level (MSL). Prominent drainage features such as lakes, depressions, streams, etc., which could affect the design of the subdivision shall be shown. Engineering data showing the high-water elevation and how it was established shall be submitted with the plat.
(4)
Existing features. The plat shall show the locations and names of existing and platted property lines, streets and their right-of-way, railroads and their right-of-way, public and private rights-of-way, sanitary sewers and size, water mains and size, bridges, culverts, storm drainage and size, easements, parks and other public open spaces, land lot and land district lines, and names of adjoining property owners or subdivisions. Groups of trees and swamp areas shall also be indicated.
(5)
Location map. The plat shall include a small scale map of sufficient clarity so that the location of the proposed subdivision can be readily determined.
(6)
Water and sewer facilities. A statement from the subdivider shall be submitted with the preliminary plat which will describe the method by which sanitary sewer and water facilities will be provided. If nonpublic sewer is proposed to serve a subdivision, then soils will be identified according to local detailed soil survey maps and soil percolation test results and a contour map shall accompany the preliminary plat at the time of submission. The contour map shall show the location and identification of each soil class and site of each percolation test. Percolation tests shall be made in accordance with county health department requirements.
(7)
Future tract plan. In cases where a subdivision is to be developed in stages with additional plats being filed with the planning commission at a later date, the filing of the initial plat will be accompanied by a future tract plan, a reasonably accurate plat in sketch form of the entire tract which will show the future street system and topography for the entire tract. Once the required tract plan has been given approval by the planning commission, five copies of the approved future tract plan must be provided for distribution to the various reviewing agencies.
(d)
Completeness. If any of the information required by subsection (c) of this section is omitted or misrepresented on the plat, the county administrator may refuse to review the plat and shall return the plat to the subdivider to be completed or revised.
(e)
Approval by individual agencies. No preliminary plat shall be approved by the planning commission unless it is approved by the county engineer, the road superintendent, and the board of health. Such agencies shall, with or without modification, approve or disapprove the preliminary plat to the extent that each has jurisdiction. If the plat is rejected, the respective reviewing agency shall provide the planning commission with a written statement specifying all aspects where the plat fails to comply.
(f)
Review and recommendation by staff development review committee. Upon receipt of the filing of the preliminary plat, the county administrator shall prepare those materials for presentation to the staff development review committee. The staff development review committee shall review the preliminary plat for technical compliance with this chapter, the comprehensive plan, and other county ordinances that might impact on the proposed land subdivision. The staff development review committee shall recommend in writing approval, conditional approval, postponement or disapproval within 45 working days of submission.
(g)
Coordination. It shall be the responsibility of the county administrator to ensure that the review of the staff development review committee is brought together in a timely fashion for proper presentation to the planning commission.
(h)
Review by planning commission. Final review of the proposed preliminary subdivision plat shall be made by the planning commission at its next regular meeting. The county administrator shall be responsible for coordination of information to be brought before the planning commission, which at a minimum shall include the recommendations of the staff development review committee (county engineer, road superintendent, and board of health). The planning commission may grant preliminary approval, conditional approval, postponement or disapproval within 30 days of submission.
(1)
Preliminary approval. Preliminary approval by the planning commission means that the developer is now authorized to proceed with the preparation of the required improvement plans, outlined in detail under section 54-53. No developer shall proceed with any construction or any other work in the proposed subdivision before obtaining preliminary approval of these improvement plans in writing. Lots shall not be sold nor shall building construction begin at this time. Preliminary approval grants the developer a minimum time of 18 months within which he shall submit his improvements plan and final plat for approval unless a time extension is granted by the planning commission before the expiration of the 18-month period. If, in the opinion of the staff development review committee, substantial changes have been made to the approved preliminary plat, the revised plat shall be resubmitted as a new preliminary plat.
(2)
Conditional approval. Conditional approval by the planning commission means the developer may proceed after written notice from the zoning administrator, as outlined under subsection (h)(1) of this section, but only after he has submitted at least five copies of the corrected preliminary plat to the county administrator, noting thereon the conditions or changes required by the approval of the planning commission.
(3)
Postponement. Postponement by the planning commission means action is delayed for specific reasons which shall be noted and transmitted in writing to the developer by the administrator. Postponed preliminary plats may be reconsidered by the planning commission without resubmittal to the staff development review committee.
(4)
Disapproval. Disapproval by the planning commission means denial of the application for the subdivision because the developer's plans are not in compliance with this chapter. For further consideration, the developer must rework and resubmit his plans as though they were a completely new preliminary plat. The specific reasons for disapproval shall be stated to allow for correction.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 4-1)
Sec. 54-53. - Improvement plans.
(a)
General requirements. Subdivision plats receive their second official consideration as improvement plans. These improvement plans shall be approved by the county engineer and road superintendent, who shall certify that the improvement plans are in conformance with this chapter and official county specifications and with the requirements of the approved preliminary plan. No developer shall proceed with any construction work in the proposed subdivision before obtaining this approval.
(b)
Use of professional engineer. Should certain design calculations be required to resolve flow problems, possible erosion or drainage problems, or other detailed engineering problems which might be encountered in the process of preparing the required improvement plan, the county engineer shall be authorized to require the developer to obtain the services of a professional engineer in the improvement plan design process. Should such services be required, such plans shall reflect his registration.
(c)
Filing; review; approval or denial. To secure formal review of his improvement plans, the developer shall file with the county administrator three certified (signed and sealed by the developer's registered surveyor) white background prints of the improvement plans. The administrator will then distribute the improvements plan to the county engineer and road superintendent and the staff development review committee, who shall jointly review the proposed improvement plans, and the planning commission shall approve or deny the proposed improvement plans. The administrator shall notify the board of commissioners of the committee's action in writing. The review of the improvement plans shall include the review of plans for compliance with chapter 22, article II, pertaining to erosion and sedimentation control.
(1)
Approval. Approval means the developer is now authorized to proceed with the preparation of the final plat.
(2)
Conditional approval. Conditional approval means the developer may proceed as outlined in subsection (c)(1) of this section, but only after he submits three certified copies of the corrected improvement plans to the county engineer and road superintendent for their review and approval.
(3)
Denial. Denial means disapproval of the improvement plans. For further consideration, the developer must rework his plans to conform to the requirements of this chapter, and then submit the reworked plans to the county administrator as though they were a completely new set of improvement plans.
(d)
Required plans and data. The plans for the required public improvements shall be prepared for the approval by the staff development review committee (county engineer and road superintendent) prior to the construction and only after approval of the preliminary plat. Such improvement plans shall show the proposed locations, sizes, types, grades and general design features of each facility, and shall be based on reliable field data. Construction plan approvals are good for 24 months. If the subdivision is sold prior to completion and final platting, a mandatory review by the staff development review committee and county engineer and road superintendent is required. Failure to comply may result in revocation of construction permit after notice and hearing before the staff development review committee. The developer shall receive a minimum of ten days' written notice of the hearing. The improvement construction drawing shall be submitted on white background prints. The sheet size shall be 24 inches by 36 inches unless another size is approved by the county engineer. The drawing shall include the following information:
(1)
Construction plans. The developer shall provide the plan and profile of each proposed street (indicating the existing ground surface elevation and proposed street grade surface elevation including extensions for a distance of 100 feet to 300 feet beyond the tract boundary) as required by the county engineer. Design shall be in accordance with good engineering practices.
(2)
Typical street sections. A typical section of each proposed street shall be submitted, showing the width of pavement and the rights-of-way.
(3)
Water supply, sewer system and stormwater drainage facilities. The plan and profile of proposed water distribution systems and storm drainage sewers or other drainageways, with grade and sizes, indicated is required. Stormwater drainage shall be consistent with applicable county or city ordinances and other applicable governmental agencies. Water and sewer systems shall be approved by the staff development review committee and all relevant state agencies. Final approval of the improvement plans shall not be made until the developer submits to the county administrator all final permits required for the construction of all improvements from other state, local or federal agencies.
(4)
Utility service agreement. A developer's agreement for utilities service shall be required before final development approval is granted.
(5)
Public use areas and improvements. A plan shall be prepared for parks, recreation or other public use areas and improvements if included in the approved preliminary plat.
(6)
As-built plans. The designing surveyor or engineer shall submit to the county engineer three sets of white background prints of certified as-built plans.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 4-2)
Sec. 54-54. - Final plat.
(a)
Generally; conformance with preliminary plat. The final plat shall conform with the approved preliminary plat. If desired by the subdivider, he may submit only that portion of the preliminary plat he proposes to record and develop at that time, provided that such portion conforms with all requirements of this chapter. The record plat is to be prepared and sealed by a registered land surveyor, licensed in the state.
(b)
Filing. Filing of the final plat with the county administrator shall include the following:
(1)
A letter of application, which shall contain:
a.
The name and address of the person developing the subdivision and his agents.
b.
Whether or not the subdivision will be developed in phases.
c.
Plans for serving the proposed subdivision with sewer and water facilities.
(2)
A complete list of deviations, if any, from the approved preliminary plat.
(3)
A certified copy of all private covenants or deed restrictions, if any, pertaining to land within the subdivision.
(4)
A copy of the agreement for providing the necessary water and sewer facilities.
(5)
A fee to cover the cost of investigation and review of the preliminary plan, the construction plans and the final plat, and final recording costs, which will be charged at the time of application. The fees are as set by the board of commissioners.
(6)
The original reproducible on plastic or linen and five blueline prints of the final plat, which will include the following:
a.
Sheet design. The final plat shall conform to the items listed for the preliminary plat (section 54-52(c)(1), (2), (4), (5) and (7)) and the requirements thereof, as set forth in this chapter, and shall be drawn in black India ink on one or more sheets of linen tracing cloth or mylar film measuring 18 inches by 24 inches. When two or more sheets are used, a key map shall be shown on each sheet. There shall be a two-inch margin on the left end of the plat and a one-half-inch margin on the remaining three sides. A revision to a recorded plat shall be drawn in black India ink on the same type cloth or film as mentioned in this subsection. The final plat shall be drawn on the scale (stated and graphical) of one inch in 100 feet. If necessary, more than one sheet may be used as long as a key map is provided to relate each sheet to the entire platted area.
b.
Surveyor certificate. The following certificate shall be entered on the face of the plat. Placement of this certificate may vary as necessary.
I certify that all measurements are correct and were prepared from an actual survey of the property made under my supervision; the field data upon which this plat is based has a closure precision of one foot in _____ feet and an angular error of _____ per angle point, and was adjusted using _______ rule; the plat has been calculated for closure and is found to be accurate within one foot in _____ feet; monument and pin locations are correctly shown by the symbols _______ and the pins are _______ (type of metallic material and length).
EXPAND
Signed _____ (Seal) (Date) _____
Surveyor, Georgia Registration No. _____
  c.
Owner certificate. The following certificate shall be entered on the face of the plat. Placement of this certificate may vary as necessary.
We, the undersigned owner(s) and/or mortgagee(s) of the ___________ Subdivision, hereby offer to dedicate and/or reserve for public use the rights-of-way, easements and other ground as shown on this plat.
EXPAND
Owner Date Mortgage Date
_____ _____ _____ _____
_____ _____ _____ _____
  d.
Approvals. The following spaces shall be provided in the form listed in this subsection for approval by all agencies having jurisdiction. Placement on the plat may vary.
Approved by the Board of Health, Berrien County, Georgia.
EXPAND
Date _____ Signed  _____
Health Department
Representative
  Approved by County Engineer, Berrien County, Georgia.
EXPAND
Date _____ Signed  _____
County Engineer/
Road Superintendent
  Approved by the Berrien County Planning Commission
EXPAND
Date _____ Signed  _____
Secretary to
Planning Commission
  Approved by the Berrien County Commission.
EXPAND
Date _____ Signed  _____
County Administrator;xhg;
  e.
Surveying data. The final plat shall contain the location, bearing and length of every street line, lot line and boundary line, whether curved or straight. A note will be made on the plat as to whether curved dimensions are arc or chord distances. Easement lines (and width) and land lot and land district lines will be shown. All dimensions shall be shown in feet and decimals to the nearest 1/100 foot, and all angles shall be shown to the nearest second. The error of closure shall not exceed one in 10,000, or as defined by the technical standards required by O.C.G.A. tit. 43, ch. 15 (O.C.G.A. § 43-15-1 et seq.). The final plat shall have a note listing the following:
Total Acres ___________
Total Lots ___________
NOTE: Distances shown are scaled.
f.
Monuments. The final plat shall show the accurate location, material and description of all monuments. A permanent master benchmark shall be established (subject to the approval of the director of roads and public works) within or adjacent to the site by transfer of levels, not less than third order accuracy, from the nearest approved benchmark of known mean sea level (MSL) elevation showing its location on the final plat and recording its elevation on the final plat to the nearest 1/100 foot.
g.
Easements. In addition to the requirements for the preliminary plat as set forth in section 54-52(c)(4), the final plat will show the location and width of all temporary construction easements (as required by standard engineering practice), public utility easements and drainage easements where required.
(c)
Filing certificate. The final plat shall be deemed filed with the planning commission when it is filed with the county administrator. At the time of filing, a certificate of filing shall be furnished the applicant, which will include the time and date of filing. The final plat shall be prepared in accordance with this chapter and applicable county requirements by a registered land surveyor who is licensed under the laws of the state. The county administrator and county engineer shall have authority to recommend rejection of the final plat if they find that it does not conform with the approved preliminary plat or this chapter. If the plat is rejected, the county administrator shall provide the subdivider with a written statement specifying all the respects in which it does not conform. Filing the final plat shall be accomplished at least 20 days prior to the regular planning commission meeting at which it is to be considered.
(d)
Approval by individual agencies. No final plat shall be approved unless the planning commission first obtains approval of the county health department and the county engineer and road superintendent. Such agencies shall approve, with or without modification, or disapprove the final plat to the extent to which each has jurisdiction. Within ten days of the time of submittal, the developer will be notified of approval or disapproval. If disapproved, the reasons for denial shall be noted.
(e)
Review by staff development review committee. Upon receipt of the filing of the final plat, the county administrator shall prepare those materials for presentation to the staff development review committee. The staff development review committee shall review the final plan for technical compliance with this chapter, the comprehensive plan, and other county ordinances that might impact on the proposed land subdivision. The staff development review committee shall recommend in writing approval, conditional approval, postponement or disapproval.
(f)
Coordination. It shall be the responsibility of the county administrator to ensure that the respective reviews of the county engineer and road superintendent, board of health, and staff development review committee are brought together in a timely fashion for proper presentation to the planning commission.
(g)
Review by planning commission. The planning commission shall review the final plat, giving due consideration to the reviews of the staff development review committee. The planning commission shall then recommend to the board of commissioners for final approval, conditional approval, postponement or disapproval.
(h)
Review and action by board of commissioners. Final review of the proposed final subdivision plat shall be made by the board of commissioners at its next regular meeting. The county administrator shall be responsible for coordination of information to be brought before the board of commissioners, which at a minimum shall include the recommendation of the staff development review committee and recommendation of the planning commission, the county engineer and road superintendent, and the health department. The board of commissioners may grant final approval, conditional approval, postponement or disapproval.
(i)
Release and recording of plat. Upon satisfactory compliance with this chapter, and after approval by the board of commissioners, the final plat will be forwarded to the county administrator to retain until such time that all required minimum improvements have been completed and accepted by the county, and the required guarantee has been posted. At such time, the county administrator shall release and record the final plat in a timely manner.
(j)
Revisions to recorded plat. Proposed revisions to a recorded plat which do not affect platted rights-of-way may be submitted for administrative approval in accord with the provisions of subsection (l) of this section. In addition, a revision to a recorded plat shall show the name, phase (if any), the date of the recorded subdivision plat being revised, and the exact citation with regard to the county land records and the book and page number wherein the plat is recorded. Revisions to a recorded plat which involve platted rights-of-way or other major changes shall be submitted as a preliminary plat.
(k)
Distribution of copies. The county administrator shall make the following distribution of prints and reproducibles:
EXPAND
Clerk of court (recording copies) Original linen or plastic reproducible and 1 print
County engineer 1 print and 1 reproducible
Road superintendent 1 print and 1 reproducible
Building inspector 1 print
County fire coordinator 1 print
County tax assessor 1 print
County health department 2 prints
Sheriff's department 1 print
Servicing telephone company 1 print
Servicing electrical utility company 1 print
Cable TV company 1 print
Emergency medical services 1 print
Emergency management director 1 print
Board of education 1 print
Planning commission 1 reproducible and 2 prints
Post office 1 reproducible and 2 prints
  (l)
Administrative approval of small subdivisions and resubdivisions. Where a proposed subdivision presents no engineering problems, no required improvements, and few, if any, planning problems, the county administrator may waive the requirements of filing a preliminary plat and may recommend approval to the planning commission of the final plat prior to the board of commissioners. In addition, where located on an existing road or street, the combination or recombination of previously platted lots, where the total number of lots does not increase, and the resultant lots are equal to the current standards of the county as determined by the staff development review committee, shall also be subject to administrative approval. Such plats shall conform fully to the requirements of this chapter. It shall be the responsibility of the administrator to coordinate the administrative review responsibilities.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 4-3)
Secs. 54-55—54-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 54-81. - Blocks.
(a)
Nonresidential blocks. Blocks for other than residential use shall be of such length and width as may be suitable for their prospective use, including adequate provision for off-street parking and maneuvering space.
(b)
Residential blocks. The length of residential blocks shall not exceed 1,200 feet or be less than 400 feet. Blocks of more than 1,200 feet will be permitted if natural or manmade barriers such as streams and railroads require blocks of greater size. The depth of residential blocks shall be sufficient to allow two tiers of lots, unless prohibited by natural or manmade barriers, or unless one tier backs onto a line of another person's property, except as provided for in section 54-83(c). The foregoing shall not prevent the inclusion of blocks of greater width, including super blocks. Super blocks may contain public or joint use areas such as parks and playgrounds and shall be covered by adequate maintenance agreements if not dedicated and accepted for public maintenance.
(c)
Crosswalks. Rights-of-way for pedestrian crosswalks shall be provided when in the opinion of the planning commission crosswalks are necessary for direct pedestrian access to schools, shopping centers, and parks. A crosswalk right-of-way shall not be less than 20 feet wide.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-1)
Sec. 54-82. - Easements.
(a)
Utility easements. Utility easements for overhead services shall be located within the platted street right-of-way and shall be a minimum width of 20 feet. Where possible, as determined by the county engineer, water lines shall be located on the west and south sides of streets and sewer and gas lines shall be on the east and north sides. Wherever public utility easements are planned adjacent to the subdivision tract boundary or phase, they shall be platted within the subdivision or phase thereof. All public utilities within the subdivision shall be located on public rights-of-way.
(b)
Drainage easements. Drainage easements shall be provided as required by the county engineer after review of the preliminary improvement plans and preliminary plat of the subject subdivision.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-2)
Sec. 54-83. - Lots.
(a)
Minimum elevation. The lot area contained within and contiguous to the building walls and for a minimum distance of ten feet measured from all sides of the building shall have a minimum elevation of two feet above any known flood streams in the particular area being developed based on acceptable engineering procedure and approved by the county engineer. The minimum elevation shall be subject to approval by the board of health.
(b)
Corner lots. Corner lots shall be of such size and dimensions that will permit the location of buildings so as to conform with building setback lines. Corner property lines at street intersections shall have a minimum of 30-foot miter.
(c)
Double and reverse frontage lots. Lots having street frontage both to the front and rear shall be prohibited, unless allowed by variance, except to provide for separation of residential development from railroad rights-of-way or arterial or collector street rights-of-way. Where a railroad right-of-way or arterial or collector street right-of-way abuts or runs through any portion of the subdivision, the subdivision plan shall provide for lots backing on the railroad right-of-way or major or collector street right-of-way. All lots shall have a minimum depth adequate to provide for the rear yard, plus an additional 30 feet, ten feet of which shall be a planted, nonencroachable buffer strip separating the lots from the right-of-way. The buffer zone shall be landscaped with hedges or closely planted small trees to provide a visual screen, which shall be planted at the time of development. The planted, non-encroachable buffer strip shall be clearly indicated on the final plat and its control shall be dedicated to the county.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-3)
Sec. 54-84. - Buffer zones.
When a portion of the subdivision is to be devoted to commercial purposes and when the commercial area adjoins residential lots, or when a portion of a proposed subdivision adjoins an area planned for commercial or industrial use, a buffer zone not less than 20 feet in width shall be provided. The buffer strip shall be landscaped with hedges or closely planted small trees so as to provide visual screening. No building or portion thereof may be constructed in the buffer zone, and its control shall be dedicated to the county. The nonencroachable buffer zone shall be labeled as such on the subdivision plat and shall be planted at the time of development installation of the required minimum improvements.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-5)
Sec. 54-85. - Common areas for public use.
In subdividing land, due consideration shall be given to suitable sites for schools, parks, playgrounds, and other common areas for public use. Such land should be located in accordance with the comprehensive plan. The acquisition of such land shall rest with the appropriate public authority.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-6.15)
Secs. 54-86—54-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - STREETS

Sec. 54-111. - Generally.
The street and road system of any subdivision shall give due consideration to the major thoroughfare plan. A right-of-way will not be accepted that is determined to be limiting the growth or traffic flow of an area.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-6)
Sec. 54-112. - Access.
Every lot of every subdivision shall abut a public street a minimum of 60 feet which is or shall be maintained by the appropriate governing body. Where the subdivision does not immediately adjoin a public street, the subdivider shall provide a public street from the subdivision to a public street.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-6.1)
Sec. 54-113. - Alignment and continuation.
Streets within the subdivision shall be so arranged as to provide for the alignment and continuation of or projection of existing public streets.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-6.2)
Sec. 54-114. - Culs-de-sac.
Culs-de-sac shall terminate in a circular turnaround having a right-of-way of not less than 120 feet. Paving within the turnaround shall have an outside diameter of not less than 60 feet.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-6.3)
Sec. 54-115. - Dead-end streets.
Permanent dead-end streets and dead-end alleys shall be prohibited unless terminated with a cul-de-sac.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-6.4)
Sec. 54-116. - Half streets.
Permanent half streets and half alleys shall be prohibited. Half streets and half alleys are streets and alleys with substandard rights-of-way.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-6.5)
Sec. 54-117. - Intersections.
The centerline of no more than two streets shall intersect at any one point. No street shall intersect another street at less than 80 degrees and streets shall as nearly as possible intersect at 90 degrees.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-6.6)
Sec. 54-118. - Right-of-way radius.
The right-of-way radius at street intersections shall be no less than 30 feet except on streets where state department of transportation standards shall prevail.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-6.7)
Sec. 54-119. - Curved streets.
The centerline radius shall not be less than 350 feet for arterial streets, and 120 feet for collector and local streets. Centerline tangents between reverse curves shall be not less than 200 feet for arterial streets and 100 feet for collector streets and local streets.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-6.8)
Sec. 54-120. - Street extensions when subdivision abuts undeveloped properties.
Where the proposed subdivision abuts undeveloped properties, it is essential that appropriate extensions of streets be provided to facilitate future growth and development. Such street rights-of-way to facilitate future development should be extended by dedication and improved to the boundary of the proposed subdivision.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-6.9)
Sec. 54-121. - Street jogs.
Street jogs at intersections shall be not less than 150 feet between centerline offsets. This provision shall not negate the design intent of section 54-113.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-6.10)
Sec. 54-122. - Street names.
The subdivider shall indicate on the subdivision plat the proposed name or number of all streets within the subdivision. Streets and roads that are obviously in alignment with and are extensions of existing previously named or numbered streets shall bear that name. The names of all new streets within the subdivision shall be subject to the review and approval of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-6.11)
Sec. 54-123. - Alleys.
Alleys shall not be allowed in residential subdivisions.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-6.12)
Sec. 54-124. - Right-of-way and pavement width.
Street rights-of-way shall be measured between lot lines and shall be prescribed in this section. The pavement width shall be as prescribed below:
EXPAND
Street Classification Minimum
Right-of-Way
(feet) Minimum
Pavement Width
(feet)
Arterial 100 24
Collector  80 24
Local street  60* 24
Easements ** **
  * When new development is proposed with curb and gutter sections, said development may be developed with 20-foot minimum pavement width with curb and gutter and proper storm drainage within a 50-foot right-of-way. When proposed without curb and gutter, a minimum 20-foot minimum pavement width with properly designed swale ditch drainage may be developed within a 60-foot right-of-way. Subdivisions planned for annexation shall be developed to current city standards and shall be subject to review of the city engineer.
** As appropriate for the proposed development, with approval required by the county engineer.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-6.13; Ord. No. 121405-02, § 1(5-6.13), 12-14-2005)
Sec. 54-125. - Dedication of additional right-of-way.
If the subdivision boundary line lies adjacent to the right-of-way line of an existing street of less than minimum right-of-way width, the required extra right-of-way to bring the street to current standards shall be dedicated.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 5-6.14)
Secs. 54-126—54-150. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - MINIMUM IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 54-151. - Generally.
(a)
The subdivider shall provide all public improvements as required by this chapter and by applicable county specifications and requirements.
(b)
The design of all minimum improvements shall be under the direction of a registered land surveyor registered in the state and all plans shall bear his seal. (See section 54-53(b).)
(c)
A certificate of approval from the county health department shall accompany all water and sewer plans.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 6-1)
Sec. 54-152. - Prerequisites for installation of improvements.
No grading, paving, or construction of any required improvements shall be permitted until the final plat and improvements plan of the subdivision has been approved by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 6-10)
Sec. 54-153. - Acceptance and guarantee of completed improvements.
(a)
Completion of improvements. Before the plat is signed by the county administrator, all developers shall be required to complete, in accordance with this chapter and to the satisfaction of the county engineer and road superintendent, all minimum improvements as required by this article specified on the final plat, and as approved by the planning commission, and to dedicate such improvements to the county.
(b)
Acceptance. Upon written notification of completion of minimum improvements, the county administrator shall, within 30 days after such notice, accept or reject, in writing, the completed improvements, stating the deficiencies, if any. The required minimum improvements shall not be accepted unless they conform to this chapter and officially adopted county specifications.
(c)
Guarantee. The subdivider shall guarantee for one year after acceptance by the county all materials and workmanship in the form of a bond which shall be at 20 percent of the total improvement cost.
(d)
Recording of plat. Upon acceptance of all improvements installed by the developer and posting of the required guarantee, the office of the county administrator shall release the final plat and shall record the plat in a timely manner and distribute appropriate copies thereof in accordance with the directives of section 54-54(k).
(e)
Release of guarantee. Release of guarantee shall be made by the county after one year of the recording of the final plat. At the ninth month after such recording, the county administrator will arrange for a maintenance/warranty inspection by the county engineer and road superintendent, who shall require any necessary bonded maintenance. Release of guarantee shall not exceed one year.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, art. VII)
Sec. 54-154. - Curb and gutter.
The subdivider may install curb and gutter in accordance with the requirements of section 54-124.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 6-2)
Sec. 54-155. - Monuments and pins.
The subdivider shall provide, through the licensed surveyor, the setting of all reinforced concrete monuments and pins. The reinforced concrete monuments shall be four inches in diameter or square, 30 inches long, with a flat top. The top of each monument shall be set flush with the ground. The monuments shall be set within each block of the subdivision and shall be located along the longest interior straightaway; a minimum of four per block shall be installed as shown on the approved plat. Pins a minimum of 15 inches long and one-half inch in diameter (metallic material type to be listed on plat) shall be placed along the exterior boundary and interior lot intersections except where concrete monuments are to be located, on each street corner, at points of curvature in each street and at all points where the street lines intersect the exterior boundary of the subdivision, and where such corners lie within a stream meander, in which case reference pins shall be placed on the bank of the stream. The pin shall be set a minimum of two inches under the ground. The top of the concrete monument shall contain a metal plate or metal rod which shall be scored in such a manner that will properly and accurately identify the location.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 6-3)
Sec. 54-156. - Water supply and sanitary sewers.
Every lot of a proposed subdivision shall be supplied with adequate water and sanitary facilities, which shall require the approval of the county health department. Where existing water and sewer mains are in the street, but there are no services to the proposed lots, the subdivider shall have the services installed. Where public water and sanitary sewerage is available through extensions, the subdivider shall ensure that every lot of the subdivision shall be provided with such public facilities in accordance with applicable county and/or city specifications.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 6-4)
Sec. 54-157. - Street paving.
The subdivider shall provide paved streets in accordance with this chapter and applicable county specifications. (See section 54-161.)
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 6-6)
Sec. 54-158. - Drainage.
The subdivider shall provide adequate stormwater drainage in accordance with this chapter and applicable county specifications. Where drainage conditions dictate, open ditches shall be paved. The subdivider shall also provide for adequate drainage of springs or other groundwater drainage.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 6-7)
Sec. 54-159. - Placement of utilities.
The installation of utilities shall be as follows:
(1)
Communication distribution systems. All communication distribution systems installed solely for the purpose of extending communications service within a development and within the property limits of such development shall be placed as directed by the staff development review committee.
(2)
Electric power distribution systems. All electric distribution systems installed solely for the purpose of extending electric service to a development and within the property limits of such development shall be placed as directed by the staff development review committee.
(3)
Easements. Developers shall allocate necessary easements with future maintenance access.
(4)
Location of underground installations. The plans submitted to the county will set forth the anticipated location of all underground installations. Location approval or acknowledgment by the owners of the underground installations shall be submitted.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 6-8)
Sec. 54-160. - Buffer strips.
The subdivider shall provide adequate buffer strips which consist of plantings and/or visual blinds as detailed in this chapter.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 6-9)
Sec. 54-161. - Minimum street surface specifications.
Minimum street surface specifications are as follows:
(1)
Local streets: 1½ inches asphalt concrete E, F, or H mix, over either five inches soil cement or six inches graded aggregate and crushed limestone (compacted to modified density) or 6½ inches limerock or ten inches sand/clay base course class B.
(2)
Collectors and above: Two inches asphalt concrete E, F, or H, over either six inches soil cement or seven inches graded aggregate crushed limestone (compacted to modified density) or 7½ inches limerock or 12 inches sand/clay class B.
(Ord. of 9-24-2001, § 6-11)
