Chapter 18 - EMERGENCY SERVICES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Civil emergencies and emergency management, ch. 14; law enforcement, ch. 30.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 18-1—18-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY SERVICE COST RECOVERY

Sec. 18-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Owner means the individual owner of property for which the county has provided and responded to a fire or similar emergency.
(Res. of 9-26-1994)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-32. - Administrative procedure for claims.
The county manager/clerk shall establish an administrative procedure with each fire department within the county to acquire the proper information for filing a claim with each property owner's insurance company after the owner has been provided fire protection services.
(Res. of 9-26-1994)
Sec. 18-33. - Filing of claims.
The county manager/clerk shall file a claim in an amount up to $500.00 for fire service provided with the owner's insurance company. The claim is to be payable to the county.
(Res. of 9-26-1994)
Secs. 18-34—18-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EMERGENCY 911 SERVICE, COST AND ADVISORY BOARD[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Boards, commissions and authorities, § 2-231 et seq.

Sec. 18-61. - Established.
A 911 advisory board is hereby created for the county. The board shall consist of six members which shall be the following individuals:
(1)
The county sheriff;
(2)
The county emergency medical services director;
(3)
The county emergency management agency director;
(4)
The chief ranger of the county unit of the state forestry commission;
(5)
A member of the board of commissioners to be appointed by the board of commissioners and serve indefinitely;
(6)
A chief of one of the county rural fire departments to be appointed by the board of commissioners to serve an indefinite term and at the pleasure of the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 3-14-2002; Res. of 10-28-2002)
State Law reference— Advisory board required, O.C.G.A. § 46-5-136.
Sec. 18-62. - Local 911 service.
The county will provide 911 service.
(Res. of 3-14-2002)
Sec. 18-63. - Monthly 911 service charge.
(a)
A monthly 911 charge is imposed upon each exchange access facility subscribed to by the telephone subscribers whose exchanges to access lines are in areas in the incorporated and unincorporated area of the county.
(b)
The amount of the 911 charge shall be as established by the board of commissioners, per exchange access facility provided to the telephone subscribers in the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
(Res. of 3-14-2002)
State Law reference— Authority to impose charge, O.C.G.A. § 46-5-133.
Secs. 18-64—18-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENTS

Sec. 18-91. - Created.
County volunteer fire departments are hereby created for the protection of the unincorporated areas of the county by the board of commissioners. There are seven volunteer fire departments in the county:
(1)
Nashville Fire Department
(2)
Ray City Fire Department
(3)
Enigma Fire Department
(4)
Alapaha Fire Department
(5)
New Lois Fire Department
(6)
East Berrien Fire Department
(7)
West Berrien Fire Department
Sec. 18-92. - User fees for emergency fire department services.
(a)
Motor vehicular accidents: Berrien County's Volunteer Fire Departments, at the option of the governing board for each respective department, are authorized to initiate a user fee for the delivery of fire department services, personnel, supplies and equipment to the scene of motor vehicular accidents. The rate of the user fees shall be that which is the usual, customary and reasonable costs (UCR), which includes any services, personnel, supplies and equipment and may fluctuate based on the needs of the accident. The user fees shall be filed to the motor vehicle insurance, commercial or homeowner's insurance, representing an add-on-cost of the claim for damages of the vehicles, property and/or injuries. The claim costs shall be filed to the insurance coverage of the owner of the vehicle, owner of the property, or responsible party.
(b)
Structure fires: Berrien County's Volunteer Fire Departments, at the option of the governing board for each respective department, are authorized to initiate a user fee for the delivery of fire department services, personnel, supplies and equipment to the scene of a structure fire. The rate of the user fee shall be that which is the usual, customary and reasonable costs (UCR), which includes and services, personnel, supplies and equipment and may fluctuate based on the needs of the accident or fire. The user fee shall be filed to the commercial or homeowner's insurance, representing an add-on-cost of the claim for damages of the property, or responsible party.
(c)
Oil and hazardous waste cleanup: Berrien County's Volunteer Fire Departments, at the option of the governing board for each respective department, are authorized to initiate a user fee for the delivery of fire department services, personnel, supplies and equipment t the scene of an oil and hazardous waste incident. The rate of the user fee shall be that which is the usual, customary and reasonable costs (UCR), which includes any services, personnel, supplies and equipment and may fluctuate based on the needs of the incident. The user fee shall be filed to the vehicle, commercial or homeowner's insurance, representing an add-on-cost of the claim for damages of the property. The claim costs shall be filed to the insurance coverage of the owner of the property, or responsible party.
(d)
[Collection of fees:] The respective fire department or their designees are hereby authorized to execute any and all documents and/or implement any and all procedures necessary to effectuate the collection of fees in order to enhance services by the fire department.
(e)
[Fire department fund:] All amounts collected as a result of this section shall be placed into a fund as established by the fire department to be used exclusively for personnel, supplies and equipment for the fire department.
(Ord. No. 07102007, §§ 1—5, 7-10-2007)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 07102007, §§ 1—5, adopted July 10, 2007, added provisions that were not specifically amendatory. At the editor's discretion, said provisions have been included as § 18-92.
