Chapter 101 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Sec. 101-1. - Applicability of chapter 1.
The provisions of chapter 1 of this Code apply to this subpart.
Sec. 101-2. - Status.
This subpart is a codification of ordinances pertaining to land development. Subpart A of this Code is a codification of other ordinances. Failure to include an ordinance in subpart B that relates to land development does not excuse noncompliance with such ordinance. Inclusion of an ordinance in subpart B that does not pertain to land development does not excuse noncompliance with such ordinance. Inclusion of an ordinance in subpart A that pertains to land development does not excuse noncompliance with such ordinance.
Sec. 101-3. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subpart, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Governing authority . The terms "governing authority" and "governing body" mean the board of commissioners of Long County, Georgia, in instances where the subject property is in the unincorporated area of Long County, or a majority of the subject property is in the unincorporated area of Long County, and shall mean the Ludowici City Council in instances where the subject property is in the City of Ludowici, or a majority of the subject property is in the City of Ludowici.
Premises. The term "premises" means place or places.
Public place . The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Residence . The term "residence" means the place adopted by a person as such person's place of habitation, and to which, whenever such person is absent, such person has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed such person's residence.
Seal . The term "seal" means the county seal.
Sidewalk . The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street or road between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
Street or road . The term "street" or "road" means the entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, ch. 2)
Sec. 101-4. - Title.
This subpart shall be known as the "Long County-City of Ludowici Land Development Code." The map herein referred to, which is identified by the title, "Official Protected Long County-City of Ludowici Land Use Area Maps" is adopted by reference.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 1.1)
Sec. 101-5. - Jurisdiction.
This subpart shall apply to all land and structures within the City of Ludowici and Long County, Georgia.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 1.2)
Sec. 101-6. - Purpose.
This Land Development Code and protected residential districts as herein set forth have been made for the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, morals, general welfare, convenience and prosperity of the citizens of the City of Ludowici and Long County, Georgia. The regulations and arrangements of districts have been designed to lessen congestion in the streets, to secure safety from fire, to provide adequate light and air, to prevent the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue concentration of population, to facilitate the adequate provision of water, sewer, schools, parks and other public requirements and to encourage the most appropriate use of land throughout the city and unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 1.4)
Sec. 101-7. - Scope.
This subpart:
(1)
Regulates the location, height, bulk, number of stories and size of buildings and other structures, the percentage of lot which may be occupied, the sizes of yards and other open spaces, and the density and distribution of population;
(2)
Regulates the uses of buildings, structures and lands for trade, industry, residence, recreation, conservation, water supply, sanitation, public safety, and public activities;
(3)
Ensures the preservation of scenic areas, protection against floods, rising waters and erosion, and other purposes;
(4)
Creates protected residential areas for said purposes, and establishes the boundaries thereof;
(5)
Provides for the method of administration, appeal and amendment, enforcement, duties and the provision of penalties for violation.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 1.5)
Sec. 101-8. - Conflicting provisions.
Where the provisions of this subpart are in conflict with other codes or ordinances, the most restrictive provisions shall be enforced.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 1.6)
