ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 118-1. - Title.
These regulations shall officially be known, cited, and referred to as the Subdivision Regulations of Long County-City of Ludowici, Georgia (hereinafter "these regulations").
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.1)
Sec. 118-2. - Policy.
(a)
It is declared the policy of the local government to consider the subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided plat as subject to the control of the local government pursuant to the local comprehensive plan for orderly, planned, efficient, and economical development.
(b)
Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire, flood, or other menace, and land shall not be subdivided until adequate facilities and improvements exist and proper provision has been made for drainage, water, sewerage, transportation facilities and other improvements.
(c)
The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be properly related to the proposals shown in the local comprehensive plan and official zoning map, as may from time to time be adopted or amended. It is intended that these regulations shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement of the provisions and standards contained in building and housing codes, land development codes, the local comprehensive plan and the official zoning map, as may from time to time be adopted.
(d)
Land that has been subdivided prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which these regulations are derived should, whenever possible, be brought within the scope of these regulations to further the purpose of regulations identified in section 118-3.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.2)
Sec. 118-3. - Purposes.
These regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
(1)
To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general welfare of the city or county.
(2)
To guide future growth and development in accordance with the local comprehensive plan.
(3)
To provide for adequate light, air, and privacy, to secure safety from fire, flood, and other dangers, and to prevent overcrowding of the land and undue congestion of population.
(4)
To protect the character and the social and economic stability of all parts of the county and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development of the community through appropriate growth management techniques ensuring the timing and sequencing of development, promotion of infill development in existing neighborhoods and nonresidential areas with adequate public facilities, to ensure proper urban form and open space separation of urban areas, and to protect environmentally critical areas and areas premature for urban development.
(5)
To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the community and the value of buildings and improvements upon the land, and to minimize the conflicts among the uses of land and buildings.
(6)
To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, playgrounds, recreation areas, and other public requirements and facilities.
(7)
To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the community, having particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land and buildings, and to provide for the proposed location and width of streets and building lines.
(8)
To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for subdivisions in order to further the orderly layout and use of land and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided land.
(9)
To facilitate the provision of adequate public facilities and services concurrent with development and to ensure that such facilities will have sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision; to ensure that the community will be required to bear no more than its fair share of the cost of providing the facilities and services through requiring the developer to pay fees, furnish land, or establish mitigation measures to ensure that the development provides its fair share of capital facilities needs generated by the development.
(10)
The prevent the pollution of air, streams, and ponds, to ensure the adequacy of drainage facilities, to safeguard the water table, and to encourage the wise use and management of natural resources throughout the county in order to preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of the community and the value of the land.
(11)
To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the community and to ensure appropriate development with regard to these natural features.
(12)
To provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and layout of the land, including the use of average density in providing for minimum width and area of lots, while preserving the density of development as established in this Land Development Code.
(13)
To generally ensure that land is subdivided only when subdivision is necessary to provide for uses of land for which market demand exists, and which is in the public interest.
(14)
To remedy the problems associated with inappropriately subdivided lands, including premature subdivision, excess subdivision, partial or incomplete subdivision, and scattered and low-grade subdivision.
(15)
To provide flexibility of design in order to promote environmentally sensitive and efficient uses of the land.
(16)
To preserve in perpetuity unique or sensitive natural resources such as groundwater, floodplains, wetlands, streams, steep slopes, woodlands and wildlife habitats.
(17)
To preserve important historic and archaeological sites.
(18)
To permit clustering of houses and structures on less environmentally sensitive soils which will reduce the amount of infrastructure, including paved surfaces and utility easements, necessary for residential development.
(19)
To reduce erosion and sedimentation by minimizing land disturbance and removal of vegetation in residential development.
(20)
To promote interconnected greenways and corridors throughout the community.
(21)
To promote contiguous green space with adjacent jurisdictions.
(22)
To encourage interaction in the community by clustering houses and orienting them closer to the street, providing public gathering places and encouraging use of parks and community facilities as focal points in the neighborhood.
(23)
To encourage street designs which reduce traffic speeds and reliance on main arteries.
(24)
To promote construction of convenient landscaped walking trails and bike paths both within the subdivision and connected to neighboring communities, businesses, and facilities, to reduce reliance on automobiles.
(25)
To conserve scenic views and reduce perceived density by maximizing the number of houses with direct access to, and views of, open space.
(26)
To protect prime agricultural land and preserve farming as an economic activity.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.3)
Sec. 118-4. - Public purpose.
Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of valid police power delegated by the state to this county. The developer has the duty of compliance with reasonable conditions laid down by the governing authority for design, dedication, improvement, and restrictive use of the land, to conform to the physical and economic development of the county, and to the health, safety, and general welfare of the future lot owners in the subdivision and of the community at large.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.9)
Sec. 118-5. - Jurisdiction.
These regulations apply to all subdivision of land as defined by this subpart, and located within the City of Ludowici or the unincorporated areas of Long County.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.5.1)
Sec. 118-6. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Accessory building means a secondary residence, garage, or other building or structure subordinated to, and not forming an integral part of, the main or principal building on a lot or parcel, but pertaining to the use of the main building.
Alley means a narrow thoroughfare or lane dedicated or used for public passageway up to 20 feet in width, which usually abuts the rear of the premises, or upon which service entrances or buildings abut, and which is not generally used as a thoroughfare by both pedestrians and vehicles, which is not used for general traffic, and which is not otherwise officially designated as a street. An alley may be a way which affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
Block means a group of lots surrounded by streets or roads.
Block length means the longest dimension of a block along a street or road.
Buildable area means that portion of any lot which may be used or built upon in accordance with the regulations governing the given zoning district within which the particular lot is located, once the various front, side and rear yard requirements required for the district, and all easements and wetlands, have been subtracted from the total lot area.
Building means any structure having a roof entirely separated from any other structure by space or by walls, having no communicating doors or windows or any similar opening, and being erected for the purpose of providing support or shelter for persons, animals, things or property of any kind, and having a foundation to which it is anchored.
Building inspector means any person hired by the local governing authority to inspect, determine compliance with, and render minor decisions concerning the compliance of structures within the jurisdiction of the governing authority, to the ordinances of the governing authority.
Building line means a line delineating the minimum allowable distance between the street right-of-way and nearest extreme projection of a building (including all areas covered by any vertical projections to the ground or overhang, walls, roof, or any other part of the structure).
Building site means the ground area of a building or buildings together with all open spaces surrounded by said building or buildings.
Certified drawing . A survey, sketch, plat, map, or other exhibit is said to be certified when a written statement regarding its accuracy or conformity to specified standards is signed by the specified professional engineer, registered surveyor, architect, or other legally recognized person.
Condominium (building) means a building containing two or more attached, individually owned dwelling units and related, jointly-owned common areas under condominium or cooperative ownership.
Conservation subdivision means a form of land subdivision that permits flexibility of design in order to promote environmentally sensitive and efficient uses of the land. With land subdivided through a conservation subdivision regulation, local government can preserve unique or sensitive natural resources such as groundwater, floodplains, wetlands, streams, steep slopes, woodlands and wildlife habitats. Conservation subdivisions enable clustering of houses and structures on less environmentally sensitive soils which will reduce the amount of infrastructure (including paved surfaces and utility easements) necessary for residential development.
Curb return means the end of the radius of two intersecting curbs.
Development means any construction or activity that results in a change in, or changes the use of, a parcel, or portion of a parcel, of land. The term "development" shall also include redevelopment.
Development plan, approved, means a site plan approved by the governing authority staff, complete with construction specifications, that serves as a basis for permit issuance and final plat approval, if appropriate.
Development plan, proposed, means a site plan, complete with detailed construction specifications, submitted to the governing authority for review and approval.
Dwelling means a building or portion thereof which is designed or used as living quarters for one or more families or persons.
Dwelling, group, means a building, or portion of a building, occupied or intended for occupancy by several unrelated persons or families, but in which separate cooking facilities are not provided for such residents, persons or families. The term "group dwelling" includes, but is not limited to, the terms "roominghouse," "apartment hotel," "fraternity house," "sorority house," "YMCA," or "YWCA." A hotel, motel, or tourist home shall not be deemed to be a group dwelling as herein defined.
Dwelling, multifamily, means a dwelling within a building containing three or more dwellings designed for occupancy by three or more families, or three or more groups of persons, living independently of each other, including apartments, and apartment houses, but not including auto or mobile home parks, subdivisions or camps, condominiums or townhouses designed for owner-occupancy, hotels or resort-type hotels.
Dwelling, single-family, means a detached dwelling designed for, or occupied exclusively by, one family or group of persons.
Dwelling, two-family (duplex), means a building on a single lot or parcel designed exclusively for occupancy by two families, or two groups of people, living independently of each other, and does not include condominiums or townhouses.
Dwelling unit means one or more rooms connected together and constituting a separate independent housekeeping establishment for use on a basis with provisions for cooking, eating, sleeping, and bathroom facilities, and physically set apart from other rooms or dwelling units in the same structure.
Easement means a grant by the property owner to any person, firm, corporation, municipality or the general public for the use of a strip or parcel of land for a specific purpose.
Enforcing official. Where reference is made to the duties of certain officials named herein, that designated official who has duties corresponding to those named officials herein shall be deemed to be the responsible official insofar as enforcing these regulations.
Engineer means any person having an acceptable degree from a recognized institution of higher learning who is capable of determining the correct manner in which to construct roads, streets, highways, water and sewerage systems, drainage systems, structures or other technical related areas. The person must be a registered professional engineer in good standing with the state board of registration. An engineer may be designated by the governing authority to review and approve the engineering design for all subdivisions and planned developments.
Family means one or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, including service or health providers employed on the premises, who may be housed on the premises.
Floodprone area means the land that is usually flooded whenever a rise in the water level of a creek, stream, river or other body of water is experienced; that land adjacent to a creek, stream, river, channel, canal or other body of water that is designated as a floodplain or floodprone area by a governmental agency.
Group development means a development comprising two or more principal structures, whether in single, condominium, or diverse ownership, built on a single lot, tract or parcel of land, and designed for occupancy by separate families, firms, businesses or other enterprises. Such a development generally contains parcels or tracts of land in common, and such land is controlled and maintained through a property owners association or similar group.
Improvement means any permanent structure on real property or any work on the property (such as planting trees) which increases its value.
Improvement, primary, means streets, drainage, lighting, signage, water, nonpotable reuse water lines, and sewer or other improvements required to provide for the health, safety and welfare of residents. Primary improvements also include sidewalks fronting non-lot common areas such as detention ponds, wetlands, green spaces or other similar lands.
Improvement, secondary, means sidewalks (and landscaping, if any) fronting lots.
Lot means a parcel of land shown on a recorded plat or on the official county zoning maps, or any piece of land described by a legally recorded deed.
Lot area. Gross lot area shall mean the total area of the lot including easements. Net lot area shall mean the area, minus any portions of the lot or parcel that do not represent usable space. For such a lot or parcel, the unusable space consists of wetlands, utility, drainage, and other easements and other such areas that cannot be used and enjoyed by the individual property owner. The net lot area shall be the area defined in the zoning chapter as the minimum lot area for any zoning district.
Lot, corner, means any lot situated at the junction of, and abutting on, two or more intersections or intersecting streets or public highways. If the angle or intersections of the direction lines of two highways is more than 135 degrees, the lot fronting on said intersection is not a corner lot.
Lot, double frontage, means a lot having frontage and access on two or more public streets. A corner lot shall not be considered having double frontage unless it has frontage and access on three or more streets.
Lot, interior, means any lot which is not a corner lot that has frontage only on one street other than an alley.
Lot line, front. In the case of a lot abutting upon only one street, the front lot line is the line separating such lot from such street. In the case of a corner lot, that part of the lot having the narrowest frontage on any street shall be considered the front lot line. In the case of any other lot, one such line shall be elected to be the front lot line for the purpose of this chapter, provided it is so designated by the building plans which meet the approval of the building and zoning inspector.
Lot line, rear, means that boundary which is opposite and most distant from the front lot line. In the case of a lot pointed at the rear, or any odd-shaped lot, the building and zoning inspector shall determine the rear lot line.
Lot line, side, means any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot line. A side lot line separating a lot from a street is an exterior side lot line. A side lot line separating a lot from another lot is an interior side lot line.
Lot, reverse frontage, means a lot having frontage on two or more public streets, the access of which is restricted to one street.
Lot width means the distance between the side boundaries of the lot measured at the minimum required front yard setback line.
Manufactured home means a non-self-propelled vehicle or conveyance that is towable and supported on its own chassis, permanently equipped to travel upon the public highways that is used, either temporarily or permanently, as a residence or living quarters. Such unit shall be considered a "manufactured home" whether or not the wheels have been removed and whether or not set on jacks, skirts, masonry blocks or other foundation. A "modular home" is a house that does not have its own chassis, is not towable, and is constructed at some site other than the parcel on which it is located, and then installed on a permanent foundation.
Manufactured home park means a parcel of land under single ownership or management which is used or intended to be used for rental or lease of spaces or lots, and the provision of services for two or more manufactured homes.
Manufactured home space means a plot of ground within a manufactured home park designed for the accommodation of one manufactured home.
Manufactured home subdivision means a manufactured home park, except that manufactured home spaces are for sale, rather than, or as well as, for rent.
Mean sea level datum means the North American Vertical Datum 1988.
Metes and bounds description means a method of property description whereby properties are described by means of their direction and distances for an easily identifiable location or point.
Planning and zoning board means the Long County-City of Ludowici planning and zoning board and is the appointed body of people established by the city and county, whose responsibilities include the guidance of growth and development within the county and all municipalities in the county, and interpreting of the various regulatory ordinances concerning land use. The secretary of the planning board shall be the enforcing official acting on behalf of the planning board.
Plat means a map showing the features of a proposed subdivision (lot split, metes and bounds description). This plat would show the entire tract, and the lot which is to be subdivided, the adjacent properties and owners, roads or streets, and give all necessary bearings and distances for the proposed split.
Plat, final, means the map, plan or record of subdivision, and any accompanying materials as described in article V, division 2 of this chapter.
Plat, preliminary, means a map showing the salient features of a proposed subdivision, including topographical data and all proposed and existing infrastructure locations, submitted to the governing authority for purposes of consideration.
Principal building means the building situated or to be placed nearest the front property line and the use of which conforms to the primary use permitted by the zone classification in which it is located.
Public use means use of any land, water, or buildings by a municipality, public body or board, board or authority, county, state or the federal government, or any agency thereof, for a public service or purpose.
Reserve strip means a strip of land adjacent to a public street or similar right-of-way which has been reserved for the purpose of controlling access to the public way.
Residential . The term "residential" or "residence" is applied herein to any lot, plot, parcel, tract, area, or piece of land and/or any building used, and zoned, exclusively for family dwelling purposes, or intended to be used, including concomitant uses specified herein.
Right-of-way line means the outside boundaries of a highway right-of-way, whether such right-of-way is established by usage, dedication or by the official right-of-way.
Setback means the minimum horizontal distance between the right-of-way line, the rear or side lines of the lot and the front, rear or side lines of the building. When two or more lots under one ownership are used, the exterior property line so grouped shall be used in determining offsets.
Site means an area designated as a separate and distinct parcel of land on a legally recorded subdivision plat or in a legally recorded deed.
Site plan means a map showing the salient features of a proposed planned development as defined in division 8 of this chapter, including topographical data and all existing and proposed infrastructure, submitted to the governing authority for purposes of consideration.
Street means a public right-of-way affording primary access to abutting property. For the purposes of these regulations, the term "street" shall also mean avenue, boulevard, road, land and other public ways.
Street, arterial, means a street of exceptional continuity that is intended to carry the greater portion of through-traffic from one area of the county to another.
Street, collector, means a street which is neither a local street nor an arterial street. Its location and design are such that it is of exceptional continuity; serves as a route passing through residential areas; and serves as a means of moving traffic from local streets and feeding it into arterial streets.
Street, cul-de-sac, means a short local street having but one end open for vehicular traffic, the opposite end being terminated with a permanent turnaround.
Street, dead end, means a street not intersecting other streets at both ends, and distinguished from a cul-de-sac by not being terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
Street, local, means a street which provides only access to adjacent properties and, by nature of its layout, does not serve vehicles passing through the area with either origin or destination within the area.
Street, marginal access, means a minor service street which parallels, and which is immediately adjacent to, an arterial street (frontage road).
Street width means the shortest distance between the lines delineating the right-of-way of a street.
Structure means anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires rigid location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent location on the ground; provided, however, that utility poles, fences and walls (other than building walls) shall not be considered to be structures.
Subdivider means any person who divides, for immediate or future sale, rent, lease or development, any land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
Subdivision means all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or building development, and includes all division of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets, and includes resubdivision and, where appropriate, the process of subdividing, or the land or area subdivided.
Surveyor means a person who determines or delineates the form, extent, position, distance or shape of a tract of land by taking linear and angular measurements, and by applying the principles of geometry and trigonometry, and who is a registered licensed surveyor in the state.
Townhouse means a building containing two or more attached single-family dwelling units separated by lot lines, with no common related areas.
Use means the purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or intended, or for which either land or a building is or may be occupied or maintained.
Waterfront. Any site shall be considered as waterfront property provided any or all of its lot lines abut on, or are contiguous to, any body of water, including a creek, canal, river, or any other body of water, natural or artificial, including marshlands, but not including a swimming pool, whether said lot line is front, rear, or side.
Yard means an open space on a platted lot which lies between the building setbacks and nearest lot or street line.
Yard, front, means that area of open space to the front of the platted lot, the area immediately adjacent to the street side of the lot. If streets bound on two sides of the lot, the narrower portion fronting on a street shall be declared the front. See Lot line, front .
Yard, rear, means that area of open space that is opposite the area delineated as the front; that area of open space which has the greatest distance from the street. See Lot line, rear .
Yard, side, means that area of open space that is immediately adjacent to the side lot lines. See Lot line, side .
Zoning ordinance means an officially adopted ordinance by the governing authority that regulates the manner, type, size and use to which a piece of property may be put.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.6)
Sec. 118-7. - Fees.
Fees for the processing of development plans, master plans, construction plans, preliminary plats, final plats, permits, applications and the like are due when filed with the governing authority. Such fees will be determined by the respective agency, and may be modified from time to time. Fees payable to the governing authority and the Long County-City of Ludowici planning board should be credited to the general fund of the respective agency to cover the administrative cost of processing such plans, permits and applications as described above.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.17.3.5)
Sec. 118-8. - Legal description of subdivided land.
No land may be subdivided through the use of any legal description other than with reference to a plat approved by the governing authority or its designee in accordance with these regulations.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.5.2)
Sec. 118-9. - Prior subdivisions.
The governing authority also shall have the authority to review and approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the sale, lease, or development of lands subdivided less than five years prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which these regulations are derived, where the plat contains contiguous lots in common ownership where one or more lots are undeveloped, whether the lots are owned by the original subdivider or an immediate or remote grantee from the original subdivider.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.5.3)
Sec. 118-10. - Conditions.
No land described in this section shall be subdivided or sold, leased, transferred or developed until each of the following conditions has occurred in accordance with these regulations:
(1)
The subdivider or his agent has submitted a conforming sketch plat of the subdivision to the planning and zoning board for review;
(2)
The subdivider or his agent has obtained approval of the sketch plat, a preliminary plat when required, and a final plat from the governing authority; and
(3)
The subdivider or his agent files the approved plat with the clerk of the county superior court, as appropriate.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.5.4)
Secs. 118-11—118-40. - Reserved.
