Chapter 22 - NUISANCES
Amended by Ordinance of 10-04-2022 (3)
Amended by Ordinance of 10-04-2022 (3)
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Purpose.
It is important for the county to appear clean, well-kept, and generally clear of public nuisances, eyesores and unhealthy conditions. Therefore, it is the purpose and intent of this chapter to encourage a clean, healthy, safe and satisfying environment that is free of nuisances and unsafe, unhealthy and devaluating conditions. To this end, this chapter seeks to regulate and protect the health, safety, welfare, values and aesthetics of properties.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 11.1.1)
Sec. 22-2. - Enumeration.
Amended by Ordinance of 10-04-2022 (2)
Amended by Ordinance of 10-04-2022 (3)
(a)
For purposes of this section, a nuisance is anything that causes hurt, inconvenience, or damage to another, and the fact that the act done may otherwise be lawful shall not keep it from being a nuisance. The inconvenience complained of shall not be fanciful, or such as would affect only one of fastidious taste, but it shall be such as would affect an ordinary, reasonable man.
(b)
The following conditions, though in no way constituting an exhaustive or an exclusive list, are hereby declared to be and constitute a public nuisance, and shall be abated:
(1)
Weeds or grass allowed to grow to a height greater than 12 inches on the average, or any accumulation of dead weeds, grass, or brush, that may provide safe harborage for rats, mice, snakes and/or other vermin;
(2)
Vegetation that obstructs the safe passage or line of sight of motorists or pedestrians at an intersection or driveway connection with a private or public street or alley, or along any street or sidewalk;
(3)
Dead or dying trees or other vegetation which may cause a hazardous situation if they fall;
(4)
Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk, construction, debris, and other abandoned materials, metals, lumber, or other such items;
(5)
The keeping or maintenance of one or more abandoned vehicles in public view or in a manner inconsistent with this Code;
(6)
The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable time after death;
(7)
Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated condition that it is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such an unsanitary condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity thereof, or presents a fire hazard;
(8)
Removal of asbestos or materials containing asbestos from any home suspected of containing asbestos without first receiving pre-clearance from a licensed laboratory dealing with the removal of asbestos, and county approval;
(9)
Burning and/or burying treated or untreated lumber or wood;
(10)
Burning and/or burying building materials, mobile homes, or abandoned/dilapidated houses;
(11)
All unreasonably loud or harsh noises which may annoy or inhibit a reasonable person in the use and quiet enjoyment of their property;
(12)
All disagreeable or noxious odors or stenches, as well as the conditions, substances, or other causes which give rise to the emission or generation of such odors and stenches, including smoke and fires;
(13)
The pollution of any public well, stream, lake, canal, or body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery wastes, industrial wastes, agricultural wastes, or other substances;
(14)
Any structure, building, or other place or location where any activity is conducted, performed, or maintained in violation of local, state, or federal law;
(15)
Any accumulation of stagnant water; and
(16)
Any method of human excretion disposal which does not conform to the provisions of local ordinances, or state or federal law.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 11.1.2)
Sec. 22-3. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit the existence of any nuisance on any property within the county.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 11.1.3)
Sec. 22-4. - Exemptions.
The reasonable use of amplifiers, loudspeakers, drums, or other instruments or devices emitting noise for the purpose of any public address or for the purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show, sale or display of merchandise shall be permitted providing a permit therefor is secured from the county code enforcement office. An application for the use desired shall be submitted in writing to the code enforcement office, which application shall set out the nature of the noise-making activity, the place where the activity is to be carried on, and the dates and hours during which the use is to be made. The code enforcement office shall act upon each application so submitted, and shall, before granting a permit, place such restrictions upon the use as to the extent, hours and location as to prevent unreasonable annoyance to the public or any resident.
Secs. 22-5—22-26. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ABATEMENT
Amended by Ordinance of 10-04-2022 (2)

Sec. 22-27. - Notice to abate.
Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the county, the zoning administrator or designee shall give written notice to the owner or occupant of the property upon which such a nuisance exists, or upon the person causing or maintaining the nuisance, to abate the nuisance. The contents of the notice to abate shall include:
(1)
An order to abate the nuisance or to request a hearing within a stated time, which shall be reasonable under the circumstances;
(2)
The location of the nuisance, if the nuisance is stationary;
(3)
A description of what constitutes the nuisance; and
(4)
A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed, the local government will file an action in magistrate court to abate the nuisance.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 11.1.4)
Sec. 22-28. - Nuisances constituting imminent danger.
Whenever any condition shall exist that constitutes an immediate and grave hazard to public health and safety requiring immediate action, such condition may be abated or otherwise remedied summarily and without following the procedures set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 11.1.5)
