Chapter 30 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 30-1—30-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COUNTY LANDINGS

Sec. 30-20. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
All-terrain vehicle means a small, open motor vehicle having one seat and three or more wheels fitted with large tires. It is designed chiefly for recreational use over roadless, rugged terrain, snow, and ice, and through shallow water.
Bonfires means outdoor fires used for informal disposal of burnable waste material or as part of a celebration.
Camping means spending the night in a tent, camper or motor home between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., outside the official hours of operation, and within authorized camping areas.
County public boat landings means land owned by the county bordering a river or a stream and used exclusively for launching or retrieving boats and personal watercraft.
Dangerous drugs/narcotic drugs means that as described in O.C.G.A. §§ 16-13-21(17) and 16-13-71.
Farm utility vehicle means a vehicle that is designed for off-road use and is used as a farm, agricultural or horticultural service vehicle, generally having a gasoline or diesel engine, four or more wheels, bench seating for the operator and a passenger, a steering wheel for control, and a cargo bed.
Garbage means food waste, including waste accumulation of animal or vegetable matter, used or intended for use as food. The term "garbage" also means noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans, and similar materials.
Golf cart means a small motorized vehicle that is normally used for transporting golfers and their equipment around a golf course.
Litter means discarded wastepaper, cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture, appliances, metals, cans, glass, crockery, fragments of concrete, brick, stone or asphalt, and/or similar materials.
Off-road motorcycle means any motorcycle designed exclusively for off-road use by an individual rider with not more than two wheels in contact with the ground.
Persons means individuals, groups, organizations, associations, partnerships, firms and corporations.
Picnics means a pleasure excursion, at which a meal is eaten outdoors.
Small open fire means a small fire kept within an enclosed container, such as a grill.
Utility vehicle means a motor vehicle that is designed for off-road use, powered by an engine of no more than 25 horsepower, and used for general maintenance, security, agricultural or horticultural purposes.
Vandalism means the willful or malicious destruction or defacement of public or private property.
(Ord. No. 2013-10-8a, § I, 10-8-2013)
Sec. 30-21. - General regulations.
(a)
The county landings are available for the use of persons to use during the hours of 5:00 a.m. through 11:00 p.m.
(b)
Picnics and cooking on small open fires in all county landings are allowed between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
(c)
Persons using the county landing during official hours of operation shall at all times properly dispose of garbage and litter, and make certain all small open fires or bonfires are completely and properly extinguished before leaving.
(d)
Vehicles. No person shall ride any type of all-terrain vehicles, farm utility vehicles, utility vehicles, off-road motorcycles or golf carts.
(e)
Unauthorized possession or use of any controlled substance or dangerous drug at any county landing is prohibited.
(f)
All persons using the county landings agree to hold the county harmless from any and all liability for injury to persons or property occurring as the result of the activity at the landings.
(g)
The county sheriff or his designee at any time may inspect the premises for safety, compliance of use, hazards, or other reasons deemed necessary by the county, and may immediately terminate any camping, picnic or gathering for cause.
(h)
The county sheriff or his designee may close the county landings at any time there is an apparent danger to the persons using the property itself, or for any cause which would provide for the safety and protection of the public.
(Ord. No. 2013-10-8a, § II, 10-8-2013)
Sec. 30-22. - Violations; enforcement.
(a)
Unlawful activities. It shall be unlawful for any person to use or otherwise be in any manner upon any county public boat landing during the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m., except for the limited purpose of launching and retrieving watercraft. No other activity, whether for recreational purposes or otherwise, shall be permitted on or about said public landings during such periods. For the purposes of this section, the said public landings shall include the landing, the dock, if any, and related facilities located at said landing.
(b)
Camping exception. Authorized camping areas and public access thereto are excluded from the violations and enforcement provisions of this section.
(c)
Enforcement. The magistrate court shall have jurisdiction over violations of this article and all procedures for enforcement shall be as provided in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq. Complaints of violations of any provision contained herein shall be brought before the magistrate court on a citation issued by the office of the county sheriff, and shall be prosecuted through that court. Violations of this article will be tried upon citations, and shall be served by the sheriff or his authorized designees, and shall otherwise meet all official requirements as specified in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63, as amended.
(Ord. No. 2013-10-8a, § III, 10-8-2013)
