ARTICLE VI. - CITY COURTS

Section 6-101. - Judicial duties and powers.
The mayor and each member of the city council shall be an ex officio justice of the peace, so far as to enable any one of them to issue warrants for offences [offenses] committed within the corporate limits of the City of Manchester; to suppress riots or breaches of the peace; to arrest, confine, commit or bind over offenders against the laws of this state to answer for such offense before the proper tribunal. If, in the investigation of any case before the mayor of said city, or acting mayor, or council, when sitting on appeal, if it should appear that the penal laws of the state have been violated, it shall be the duty of said mayor, acting mayor, or council, as the case may be, to bind over the offender to answer for such offense to the proper tribunal to try the case.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 10)
Section 6-102. - Mayor's court.
There shall be a mayor's court in said city for the trial of all offenders against the laws and ordinances of said city, to be held by the mayor in council chamber of said city, as often as necessary. In the absence or disqualification of the mayor, the mayor pro tem shall hold said court, and in the absence or disqualification of the mayor and mayor pro tem, any one (1) of the councilmen chosen by the council may hold said court. Said court shall have the power to preserve order and compel the attendance of witnesses, and to punish for contempt by imprisonment, not exceeding 30 days, in the jail of Meriwether County, or in the city prison in the City of Manchester, or by a fine not exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00) or in lieu thereof by working on the streets or public works of said city not exceeding thirty (30) days, one or all of said penalties, and said fine may be collected by execution, to be issued by the city clerk against the estate of the offenders, if any estate be found; and if none, the offender may be imprisoned or worked on the streets or public works, as before provided. Said Mayor's Court of Manchester shall have power to impose the following penalties for the violation in any place in said city, public or private, of any ordinance of the city, passed in accordance with its charter; that is to say, fines not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00), imprisonment in jail of Meriwether County, or city prison of Manchester, not exceeding six (6) months, or work on the streets or other public works of said city for a term not exceeding six (6) months, and any one or more, or all, of these punishments, in the discretion of the court. Imprisonment or work on the street, or other public works of said city, may be imposed as an alternative for nonpayment of fine imposed within the time fixed by the court, or imprisonment or work on the streets or other public works of the city may be imposed in the first instance without any fine. Fines imposed as provided for in this section may be collected by execution, to be issued by the city clerk against the estate of the offender, if any estate be found; and if none, the offender may be imprisoned or worked on the streets or other works, as provided in this section. The city clerk and marshal are hereby constituted officers of said court, and shall be entitled to receive for their services in the trial of causes such fees and costs to be collected from the defendant on conviction, or from the losing party, as may be established by the mayor and council, such fees and costs to be paid into the city treasury.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 12)
Sec. 6-102.1. - Additional fine; use of proceeds for municipal jail.
In addition to all fines authorized to be levied for violations of municipal ordinances, the judge of the municipal (mayor's) court is authorized to levy an additional fine in an amount equal to ten (10) percent of each fine so levied; provided, however, that the proceeds from such additional fine shall be used for the construction, maintenance, and operation of a municipal jail. (Ord. of 2-26-90)
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Feb. 26, 1990, amended the charter by inserting provisions pertaining to an additional fine (§ 12A). Such provisions have been designated by the editor as Section 6-102.1.
Section 6-103. - Work gangs.
The mayor and council of Manchester shall have power to organize one (1) or more work gangs, and to confine at labor therein persons who have been sentenced by the courts of said city to work upon the streets or other public works of said city, and shall have power to make all rules and regulations that may be suitable, usual or necessary for the government, discipline or control of such work gangs and to enforce the same through its proper officers.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 13)
Section 6-104. - Appearance bonds.
Any policeman of said City of Manchester shall release any person arrested, upon said person giving a bond to be approved by the recorder or the mayor, or mayor pro tem, or any member of the council in the absence or disqualification of the recorder, of [or] the mayor, or the mayor pro tem, conditioned to pay the obligee in said bond, an amount fixed by the said bonding officer in the event said person arrested does not appear before the proper authorities of the said city at the time and place specified in the bond, and from time to time until the said person arrested is tried for the offense for which he or she was arrested. And should such person fail to appear at the time and place fixed and recited in the bond, said bond may be forfeited before the recorder's or mayor's court of the said City of Manchester, as the mayor and council by proper ordinance provide. Said recorder or mayor shall have authority to compel the attendance of witnesses by imprisonment if necessary, and to take such bonds to secure their attendance, and to take and receive of parties such bonds as may be necessary to secure their attendance or compliance with the orders or sentences of the court, and to forfeit said bonds before the recorder's or mayor's court and to pass ordinances to carry these provisions into effect.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 15 as amended by Ga. L. 1917, p. 747, Sec. 2; Ga. L. 1921, p. 1005, Sec. 3)
Section 6-105. - Appeals; certiorari from mayor's court.
There shall be no appeal to the council from the decision or judgment of the mayor, or mayor pro tem, or any member of the council when sitting as a court, but any person convicted before said court shall have the right to certiorari from said court to the Superior Court of Meriwether County under the same rules and regulations as now prescribed for certioraring from the council of said city.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 16 as amended by Ga. L. 1921, p. 1005, Sec. 7)
Section 6-106. - Recorder's court; appeal.
(a)
The Mayor and Council of the said City of Manchester may in their discretion create the office of city recorder and elect the recorder for said office, and when the recorder is so elected it shall be his duty to preside at the city court known as the mayor's court, with as full and ample authority to try and dispose of all cases within the jurisdiction of said court as the mayor now has, or may have. When sitting as a court he shall have full power and authority to try all offenders against the ordinances of said city, and impose such penalty for the violations thereof as may be prescribed by the ordinances of said city. He shall have the same power the mayor now has, or may have to preserve order, fine for contempt of court, compel attendance of witnesses, issue warrants and such other authority as the mayor now has, or may have, for the purpose of governing and controlling said court and for the enforcement of the ordinances of said city. And any hearing before him where it appears from the evidence that a state offense has been committed it shall be his duty to require the offender to give bond to appear at the proper court to answer such offense.
(b)
No appeal shall be had from the recorder's court or from the mayor's court of said city but any person convicted in said recorder's court, or mayor's court shall have the right of certiorari to the Superior Court of Meriwether County as now provided by law.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 46 as amended by Ga. L. 1917, p. 747, Sec. 4; Ga. L. 1921, p. 1005, Sec. 4)
State Law reference— Additional authority, O.C.G.A. § 69-704.1.
Section 6-107. - Time of court, compensation, appointment, oath, bond set by ordinance; clerk and treasurer.
The time for holding said recorder's court and the compensation of the recorder shall be fixed by ordinance at the time of his election, and when so fixed shall not be diminished or increased during the term for which determined. The said recorder when so elected shall hold his office until the next regular annual election of the mayor and council of said city, but he may be removed at any time at the pleasure of the said mayor and council. He shall take such oath and give such bond as the mayor and council may require. The clerk of said city shall act as clerk and treasurer of said recorder's court, and shall not receive any additional compensation for such services.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 47 as amended by Ga. L. 1917, p. 747, Sec. 4; Ga. L. 1921, p. 1005, Sec. 5)
Section 6-108. - Recorder pro tem.
The mayor and council of said city may also elect a recorder pro tem, who shall serve in the absence, inability or disqualification of the said recorder; who shall exercise the same power and authority and perform any and all duties as fully and completely as the said recorder while so acting. The said recorder pro tem shall qualify in the same manner, and receive such compensation as the mayor and council may determine. The said mayor and council may, by ordinance, prescribe other duties and confer such other authority as they may deem necessary upon the said recorder or recorder's court.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 48 as amended by Ga. L. 1917, p. 747, Sec. 4)
Section 6-109. - Fleeing city's jurisdiction; warrant sufficient throughout state.
Should any person violating any of the ordinances of said city flee from the jurisdiction thereof, such person may be apprehended wherever he or she may be found in this state; and the warrant of the recorder, recorder pro tem, mayor or mayor pro tem, shall be sufficient authority for his or her arrest, return and trial upon the charges resting against him or her. Said warrant may be served by any police officer of said city anywhere in the state or by any other arresting officer of this state; and should any person after trial and conviction of violating any of the ordinances of said city escape, such person may be apprehended wherever found in this state and the warrant as provided in this section shall be sufficient authority for the arrest and return of such person, and all persons thus escaping from the custody of said city shall be tried for such escape and punished as provided by ordinance for such offense.
(Ga. L. 1909, p. 1071, Sec. 49 as amended by Ga. L. 1917, p. 747, Sec. 4)
