ARTICLE III. - CITY MANAGER

Section 3-101. - City manager's position created; duties.
The councilmen may select and appoint a city manager from time to time in the discretion of the said city council for the City of Manchester; and the said city manager while serving under such election and appointment shall be the administrative head of the municipal government of said city, and shall be responsible to the city council for the efficient administration of all the departments of said city. He shall be appointed without regard to his residence, political beliefs or affiliations. At such times as a city manager may be serving and holding such office under this act, the councilmen may designate some properly qualified person to execute the functions of the office during the absence or disability of such city manager. The powers and duties of-such city manager while serving under such selections and appointment as provided by this act shall be:
(1)
To see that all laws and ordinances are enforced;
(2)
To appoint and remove all subordinate officers and employees in all departments; all appointments to be upon merit and fitness alone, and to fix their compensation subject to the approval of the council;
(3)
To exercise control over departments and divisions created therein, or which may be hereafter created by the councilmen;
(4)
To attend all meetings of the councilmen with the right to take part in all discussions, but having no vote;
(5)
To recommend to the councilmen for adoption such measures as he may deem necessary and expedient;
(6)
To prepare and submit to the councilmen an annual budget;
(7)
To keep the councilmen fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the city;
(8)
To supervise and direct the official conduct of all appointive city officers, except as herein otherwise provided;
(9)
To supervise the performance of all contracts made by any person for work done for the city, and to make all purchases for materials and supplies for the city, and to see that the same are received as contracted for; and
(10)
To perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or may be required of him by ordinance or resolution of the councilmen.
(Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Sec. 12 as amended by Ga. L. 1939, p. 1157)
Section 3-102. - Removal; bond.
(a)
The city manager may be removed from his office or employment at any time by a majority vote of said councilmen, and said councilmen shall fix his compensation or salary.
(b)
Said city manager shall give a good and sufficient bond payable to the councilmen or their successors in office, to well and truly to perform his duties as such manager; the amount of said bond to be fixed by the councilmen, and approved by them. The city shall pay the premium for such bond.
(Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Sec. 13)
Section 3-103. - Manager to be full time; councilmen to be part time.
The said city manager shall devote his entire time to the office, and the members of the council shall devote as much of their time as may be necessary.
(Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Sec. 16, Sentence 1)
Editorial note: See note after Section 2-109.
Section 3-104. - Reports.
The councilmen may require the said city manager to come before them at any time and answer questions either orally or in writing, and may require from said city manager at any time that they see fit written reports upon any matter involving the city that they deem proper; and the city manager shall report weekly to said city councilmen his general actions and doings, and shall regularly, at stated intervals, at least quarterly, file full and complete reports of the various departments of the city.
(Ga. L. 1923, p. 739, Sec. 15)
