ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 82-1. - Combined public utility system created.
The city's water, sewer, public waste disposal, stormwater management, fire protection, and garbage or trash collection service are hereby combined into a single system to serve Garden City. Collectively, the system shall be operated and maintained as a combined public utilities system. The city manager shall direct and control the operation of said combined system, but may operate such system through separate utility divisions, i.e., fire, sewer, stormwater and utility, fire protection, trash pick-up, or in such combination as he deems most efficient.
(Ord. No. 2011-4, § 1, 2-7-11; Ord. No. 2017-1, § 1-7-17)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2011-4, § 1, adopted Feb. 7, 2011, repealed former § 82-1, and enacted a new § 82-1 as set out herein. Former § 82-1 pertained to the same subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 2009-4, § 1, adopted March 2, 2009.
Sec. 82-2. - Utility system accounts; establishment of rates.
The city manager shall keep separate financial books and accounts for each utility system and for the combined utility system. It shall be the duty of the city manager to place into effect with the approval of city council, schedules of rates, fees, and charges for the services, facilities, and commodities furnished by the combined system and, as often as it may appear necessary, to revise and adjust such schedules to the extent necessary to produce funds sufficient to:
(1)
Pay the operating expenses of the combined system;
(2)
Pay the principal and interest when due on any revenue bonds and debt obligations of the water and sewer system, including funding of any debt service reserves or credit reserves required thereby; and,
(3)
Fund any minimum renewal and extension fund requirements as established by a bond ordinance or other proper resolution of the mayor and council;
at least equal to 120 percent of the amount required for the then current fiscal year or accounting period; provided, however, for such systems, a schedule of rates, tolls, fees, and charges for the services, facilities, and commodities furnished by each individual system shall be imposed so as to operate each individual system on a sound business-like basis. For purposes of this section, the system will be deemed to have operated on a sound business-like basis if net revenues of each individual system at least equals 100 percent of that portion of estimated of operating expense, plus debt service, allocable to that system during the current budget period. Such rates, fees, tolls, and charges will be classified in a reasonable manner to cover users of the services and facilities furnished by the combined system so that, as nearly as practicable, such rates, fees, tolls, and charges shall be uniform in application to all users falling within any reasonable class. No free service will at any time be furnished, including to any political subdivision or any public body. No customer will be connected to the combined system or any individual utility thereof without first having executed a service agreement in the form provided by the city manager, and paid the applicable connection fees and charges. Where applicable, a proper meter shall first be installed for services or commodities as delivered. To the extent authorized by law, it shall be the duty of the city manager to require the owners of all improved property accessible to services of the combined system to connect thereto.
(Ord. No. 2009-4, § 1, 3-2-09)
Sec. 82-3. - Audit of combined system.
As soon as practicable after the closing of each fiscal year, an audit will be made of all books and accounts pertaining to the combined system and each individual utility by an independent certified public accountant or firm of suitable experience and responsibility. Copies of such audits shall be made available to city council and to interested persons as a public record of the city.
(Ord. No. 2009-4, § 1, 3-2-09)
Sec. 82-4. - Operation of combined system.
The city manager, department heads, and employees of the combined system shall continuously operate and maintain the facilities of said system in good order and repair in accordance with the reasonable rules and regulations governing said system as from time to time established by the city manager. Where subject to governmental or administrative oversight, the combined system shall be operated in strict compliance with all valid acts, rules, regulations, orders, permits and directives of regulatory bodies and agencies.
(Ord. No. 2009-4, § 1, 3-2-09)
Sec. 82-5. - Right to shut off utilities for repair; emergencies.
The city manager shall have the right to shut-off utilities for necessary repairs and work upon the system; provided, however, shut offs shall be planned to the extent possible and reasonable notice given to users by the best available means; in any emergency situation, notice of a shut-off is not required. The city will exercise its best efforts to restore normal levels of service as soon as feasible, considering the nature of the situation and all circumstances. The city shall not be responsible for damages or rebate of fees, rates, tolls, and charges for temporary outages or shut-offs, or for compensatory damages allegedly arising from loss of utility services.
(Ord. No. 2009-4, § 1, 3-2-09)
Sec. 82-6. - Termination of services due to nonpayment or other cause.
(a)
In the absence of a written agreement with the City creating a property interest or legitimate expectation of continued services, all utility services except for fire protection service may be terminated due to violation of published rules, regulations and procedures governing service delivery and billing practices of the combined system as promulgated by the city manager. If amounts owed for water, sewer, fire protection, stormwater management, solid waste disposal, and garbage pick-up service are not timely paid, all such services except for fire protection services shall be disconnected. Payment of amounts owed for each utility is a condition of service as to the remaining utilities except for fire protection service. Where customers are subject to termination of services due to non-payment, it shall be the policy of the city to afford the customer reasonable opportunity for a meeting with a responsible employee of the Combined System's Customer Service Division to resolve any dispute prior to the scheduled date of termination. Where notice cannot be given the customer, as shown on the Combined System's billing records, or known users at the location where service is provided, after reasonable diligence by the city staff, the city shall retain the right to terminate service upon concluding the amount billed was justly due. Failure by customer to receive a bill for the current period shall not constitute a defense for non-payment when services are shown to have been accepted at the service address. Payment of fees for each utility is a condition of services as to the remaining utilities except for fire protection service.
(Ord. No. 2009-4, § 1, 3-2-09; Ord. No. 2011-4, § 2, 2-7-11; Ord. No. 2017-1, § 1-7-17)
Sec. 82-7. - Deposit required; receipt; disposition of funds.
The person in whose name the utility service is ordered must post a deposit prior to the installation of utility service by the city. The deposit shall be two and one-half times the monthly bill for all services, as estimated by the city manager using whatever data may be available. Deposits may be waived if evidence is produced that the customer has a good record of payment or that the customer would reasonably be expected to pay all bills promptly. If utility bills are paid on time for a period of four years, the deposit shall be refunded by the city. In the event that a deposit is waived or is less than two and one-half times the monthly bill for all services for whatever reason, and the customer is delinquent in payment of one or more bills, the deposit for that customer's account or accounts may be required to be increased to two and one-half times the monthly bill for all services. Such increased deposit may be required to paid in full before reconnection of service. If a customer discontinues the use of all utilities furnished by the city and he owes no unpaid utility bills to the city, the deposit made pursuant to this code section shall be refunded to him without interest.
(Ord. No. 2009-4, § 1, 3-2-09)
Sec. 82-8. - Collection of processing fee for returned checks presented to the city for payment of utility charges.
The city shall charge a processing fee to be established by the city manager and approved by council, from time to time, or the maximum amount allowed under applicable state law, whichever is less, for any check made in payment to the city for utility charges which is returned because of insufficient funds or because the drawer did not have an account at the bank upon which such check was drawn.
(Ord. No. 2009-4, § 1, 3-2-09)
Sec. 82-9. - Lien for unpaid charges.
When utility charges are due and remain unpaid for a period of 60 days, the mayor and council may cause an execution to be issued by the city manager against the owner of the premises upon which the utility services are furnished (provided such owner is liable therefor under the terms of this chapter), and any other persons as may be liable therefor. The execution shall be a lien upon the premises, and when recorded in the general execution docket of the county shall be a lien upon all the property of the defendant in execution from the date of such record. The execution may be levied by the marshal of the city or his deputy, and after advertisement and other proceedings as in the case of sales for the nonpayment of taxes the property levied upon shall be sold at public outcry to the highest bidder, and such sale shall vest an absolute title in the purchaser; provided that the defendant shall have the right to file an affidavit denying that the whole or any part of the amount for which the execution issued is due and stating what amount he admits to be due, which amount so admitted to be due shall be paid or collected before the affidavit is received, and the affidavit received for the balance. All affidavits shall set out in detail the reasons why the affiant claims the amount is not due, and when received by the city marshall shall be returned to the municipal court if the amount contested is $500.00 or under, and to the superior court of the county if the amount is over $500.00, and there the matter shall be tried and the issue determined.
(Ord. No. 2009-4, § 1, 3-2-09)
Sec. 82-10. - Execution for unpaid charges not to be issued when deposit has been made.
The mayor and council shall not enforce the collection of utility bills by the issuance of an execution against the property of the owner where a deposit has been made by the tenant or user in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2009-4, § 1, 3-2-09)
Sec. 82-11. - Damaging, injuring, or interfering with property of the combined system.
(a)
Any person who acts:
(1)
Intentionally and without authority to injure or destroy any meter, pipe, conduit, wire, line, post, lamp, or other apparatus belonging to the combined system;
(2)
Intentionally and without authority to prevent a meter from properly registering the quantity of such service supplied;
(3)
In any way to interfere with the proper action of officers and employees of the combined system;
(4)
Intentionally to divert any services to another person who knowingly receives the benefit of such services without proper charge; or
(5)
Otherwise intentionally and without authority uses or receives the benefit, without consent of the city, of any utility services;
shall be guilty of a violation of this section and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment not to exceed six months.
(b)
Any person who, with knowledge of such violation, receives the benefit of any utility service offered or provided by the combined system, without proper charge, shall be guilty of a violation of this code section.
(c)
Where there is no evidence to the contrary, the person in lawful possession of the premises receiving the benefit of service without proper charge as a result of improper action shall be presumed to be responsible for the act of tampering or diversion.
(d)
The first violation of this code section shall be prosecuted before the Municipal Court of Garden City, unless the violator charged demands trial by jury; any second or subsequent violations shall be prosecuted before the State Court of Chatham County, Georgia, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.
(e)
In addition to any fine or imprisonment authorized by this code section, upon conviction, a violator shall be ordered to pay restitution to the city in the amount found by the court for rates, fees, or other charges avoided by the violator's actions and for equipment or property of the city or its combined system damaged or destroyed by such action.
(Ord. No. 2009-4, § 1, 3-2-09)
Secs. 82-12—82-25. - Reserved.
