Chapter 54 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Municipal court, § 4.10 et seq.
Cross reference— Uniform notice procedure, § 2-296 et seq.; law enforcement, ch. 46; offenses, ch. 58; traffic and vehicles, ch. 78; vehicles for hire, ch. 86.
State Law reference— Establishment and jurisdiction of municipal courts, Ga. Const. art. 6, sec. 1, par. 1; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 54-1. - Clerk.
The chief of police shall appoint a clerk of the municipal court who shall be charged with the responsibility of maintaining all records and securing all equipment necessary for the administration of the court and for the issuing of necessary subpoenas and other papers.
(Code 1976, § 9-1001)
Sec. 54-2. - Duties of police.
The chief of police and police officers shall be vested with the responsibility of maintaining order in the court and serving all papers directed to them by the municipal court judge, the municipal court judge pro tem and the clerk.
(Code 1976, § 9-1002)
Sec. 54-3. - Acting judge.
In the event of the absence, incapacity or disqualification of the municipal court judge or municipal court judge pro tem, upon the request of either the municipal court judge, mayor or mayor pro tem, the municipal court judge or municipal court judge pro tem of any other municipality in the county, as well as the judge or judge pro tem of the municipal court of the county, or a member of the state bar in good standing, may be authorized by either the municipal court judge, mayor or mayor pro tem to temporarily exercise the duties of the municipal court judge of the city as judge pro tem.
(Code 1976, § 9-1006; Ord. of 12-6-93, § 1; Ord. of 10-3-94, § 1)
Sec. 54-4. - Convening.
The municipal court shall be held at such times as called by the municipal court judge.
(Code 1976, § 9-1005)
Sec. 54-5. - Subpoenas.
Upon information or complaint lodged with any member of the police force of the city or with the clerk, any person within the limits of the city charged with the violation of any ordinance of the city, or of any law of the state, may be brought before the municipal court to answer such charge, by the service upon such a person of a subpoena from the court setting forth the nature of the charge and the time of the hearing, and the municipal court judge or other presiding officer of the court shall have the power to punish any person disobeying such a subpoena, within the limits of punishment prescribed in section 1-13. Any person desired as witness in any case or charge pending in the court may be compelled to attend any session of the court by service upon such person, at any place within the limits of the city, of a subpoena from the court setting forth the name of the case and the time of the hearing, and the municipal court judge or other presiding officer of such court shall have the power to punish any person failing or refusing to obey such subpoena, within the limits of punishment prescribed in section 1-13.
(Code 1976, § 9-1004)
Sec. 54-6. - Sentencing of offenders.
(a)
The city authorities shall have the power to contract with the county authorities to maintain a jail to which persons convicted in the municipal court may be sent to be confined and to labor during the term of their sentences.
(b)
The municipal court judge or other presiding officer of the municipal court is hereby authorized to send to the jail persons convicted in the court to be there confined and to labor during the terms of sentence.
(c)
When not sent to the county jail, persons given jail sentences in the municipal court shall work out such sentence in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains and squares in the city.
(Code 1976, § 9-1003)
