ARTICLE VII. - PAWNBROKERS[7]
Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
State Law reference— Pawnbrokers, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-130 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-226. - Hours of operation.
The hours within which pawnbrokers may keep open their places of business shall be from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., except Saturdays and the week before Christmas, when the hour of closing shall be midnight. The police department shall see to it that the provisions of this section are enforced.
(Code 1976, § 6-1207)
Sec. 22-227. - Record of purchases; inspection of records and goods.
All pawnbrokers shall keep books wherein shall be entered an accurate description of all property pledged or sold to them. Such description shall include the name of the maker of the article, any identifying mark or number and a statement of the kind of material of which it is made. In such books there shall be entered also the name of the person by whom the property was deposited or sold and the time when the property was deposited or sold. These entries shall be made as soon after the transaction as is possible, but in no event more than one hour thereafter. Such books and the articles themselves so pledged or sold shall at all times be subject to inspection and examination by the police.
(Code 1976, § 6-1205)
Sec. 22-228. - Daily report to police; identification of persons selling or pawning goods.
(a)
Every pawnbroker shall make a daily report in writing to the police department, in such form as may be prescribed by the chief of police, of all property pledged to or bought by him during the 24 hours ending at 8:00 p.m. on the date of the report. Such reports shall be typewritten. In addition to any other information required by the chief of police, the reports shall show: the name and address of the pawnbroker; the time of the transaction; the serial number of pawn tickets; the amount paid or advanced; a full description of the articles, including kind, style, material, color, design, kind and number of stones in jewelry and all identifying names, marks and numbers; and a description of the persons selling or pawning, including name, address, color, weight and height. Insufficient reports shall be rejected, and any pawnbroker making them shall be deemed guilty of an offense. In addition, pawnbrokers shall make daily reports of all typewriters, adding machines and radios coming into and going out of their places of business. The daily report shall be in such form and shall contain such information as may be required by the chief of police, but shall contain sufficient information to identify each of such articles. In order to defray the city's costs of processing the daily reports, each report must be accompanied with a processing fee in the amount of $2.00 per transaction being reported. If the report is being submitted on computer software compatible to that which the city uses in processing daily reports, the processing fee shall be in the amount of $1.00 per transaction being reported.
(b)
In addition to the other records and information as called for in subsection (a) of this section, each pawnbroker shall obtain from each person pawning any article with such pawnbroker the fingerprint of the righthand index finger, unless such finger is missing, in which event the print of the next finger in existence on the right hand of the person pawning the article shall be obtained, with a notation as to the exact finger printed. All prints shall be made on forms to be furnished by the police department of the city, and the pawnbroker shall obtain all other information called for on the form furnished. Fingerprints and the information as required in this subsection shall be obtained from all persons each time any person pawns any article with a pawnbroker, regardless of whether or not that person may have previously pawned an article with such pawnbroker and have been fingerprinted.
(c)
The provisions of subsection (b) of this section need not be complied with where the pawnbroker knows personally the person pawning the article or can identify within 90 days after the transaction the person pawning the article.
(Code 1976, § 6-1206; Ord. of 3-16-92, § 1)
Sec. 22-229. - Holding period prior to disposal of goods.
Any pawnbroker or person operating under a pawnbroker's license who takes goods on pawn or buys goods, taking full title thereto, the word "goods" being used in this section in the broadest sense and including all kinds of personal property, shall hold such goods so taken in pawn or purchased for at least ten days before disposing of the goods by sale, transfer, shipment or otherwise.
(Code 1976, § 6-1209)
Secs. 22-230—22-240. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT AND LICENSE

Sec. 22-241. - Permit required; application.
(a)
All persons, before beginning the business of operating a pawnshop or similar place where money is advanced on goods or other effects or merchandise of any kind is taken in pawn, shall first file an application with the city administrator for a permit to conduct such business.
(b)
The application for the permit required by this section shall state the street and number at which it is proposed to operate the business and the names and addresses of all persons interested therein.
(Code 1976, §§ 6-1201, 6-1202)
Sec. 22-242. - Issuance of license.
After the permit required by section 22-241 has been issued by the council, the clerk may then, on application, issue such license as may be required by ordinance for the conduct of such business, on payment of the amount required therefor.
(Code 1976, § 6-1203)
Sec. 22-243. - Suspension or revocation of license.
Any person failing to comply with any provision of this article, or such other laws and regulations as may be passed by the council for the conduct of the business of a pawnbroker, shall be subject to having his license to conduct such business revoked or suspended for a definite period, in the discretion of the council. Such forfeiture or suspension shall result from conviction in the municipal court for a violation of any provision of this article or other ordinance or regulation covering the conduct of the business for which a permit and license have been issued.
(Code 1976, § 6-1204)
Sec. 22-244. - Payment of additional license fee by persons selling merchandise other than pawned goods.
Pawnbrokers selling goods other than those pledged may add new merchandise to their stock of the same type as that on which loans are made, up to a value of $1,000.00, without having to pay a license fee in addition to any general pawnbroker's license fee prescribed by article II of this chapter.
(Code 1976, § 6-1208)
Sec. 22-245. - Distance restrictions and number limitations imposed upon issuance of licenses.
(a)
Distance restrictions. No location shall be approved for a pawnbroker license unless such location is not less than 2,640 feet from any other location where there exists a current pawnbroker license. For the purpose of this subsection, distances shall be measured along a straight line which is the shortest distance between the property line of the proposed licensed premises and the property line of the existing licensed premises.
(b)
Number limitation. The issuance of the number of licenses for pawnbrokers within the corporate limits of the city shall be limited to one for every 2,000 of the population of the city as shown by the most recent federal census.
(Ord. of 8-17-98(1), § 1)
Sec. 22-246. - Longevity of license.
Where an individual shall have been granted a license under this ordinance and such license and continuation thereof have not been revoked and his/her qualifications not impaired, such individual shall be entitled to receive licenses for succeeding years as a matter of course upon application to the city administrator's office and the payment of the license fee.
(Ord. of 8-17-98(1), § 2)
Secs. 22-247—22-265. - Reserved.
