ARTICLE II. - RETAIL AND WHOLESALE DEALERS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority for municipality or county to adopt rules and regulations relating to manufacture, sale and distribution of distilled spirits, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-49.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-31. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person violating any provision of this article, upon conviction in the municipal court, shall be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1032))
Sec. 6-32. - Violations by licensees.
A violation of any of the provisions of this article by the holder of a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall cause the revocation of such license.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1031))
Sec. 6-33. - Copy of article to be kept on premises; instruction of employees.
It shall be the duty of the management of premises licensed to sell alcoholic beverages to maintain a copy of this article on such premises and to instruct every employee of the terms thereof.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1030))
Sec. 6-34. - Authority to padlock premises.
In any case where the city council deems it advisable after a license issued under this article has been revoked, or where alcoholic beverages are being served without a license, or in case of an emergency affecting the welfare of the citizens of the city, the city council may direct that any premises where alcoholic beverages are located be padlocked by the police department under such conditions as the city council may direct, and the city council may set methods for the disposal of such alcoholic beverages under such terms and conditions as it may see fit.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1021))
Sec. 6-35. - Employment of underage persons.
No person who holds a license for sale of distilled spirits shall employ or require or permit a person under 21 years of age to sell or take orders for any alcoholic beverage; provided, however, nothing in this section shall prohibit any licensee from employing any person under 21 years of age in any capacity which does not involve the dispensing, serving, selling or handling of distilled spirits.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1022); Ord. of 3-24-86, § 1)
Sec. 6-36. - Sale to certain persons prohibited.
No person who holds a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall sell, give away or permit the sale or gift to or the procuring of such beverages for any person who is either mentally incompetent, noticeably intoxicated, of unsound mind or under 21 years of age, or who is a habitual drunkard whose intemperate habits are known to the licensee.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1023); Ord. of 4-6-92(1), § 1)
State Law reference— Sale of alcoholic beverages to intoxicated persons, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-22.
Sec. 6-37. - Premises to be kept in sanitary condition; inspections.
All premises upon which alcoholic beverages are sold shall be kept clean and in proper sanitary condition and shall be in full compliance with the provisions and regulations governing the condition of premises used for the storage and sale of food for human consumption. All such premises shall be open to inspection at any and all times by officers or officials representing the city authorized to conduct such inspections.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1024))
Sec. 6-38. - Gambling on licensed premises.
There shall be no gambling, betting, games of chance, punchboards, slot machines or the operation of any scheme for hazarding money or any other thing of value in any place of business licensed under this article, or in any room adjoining the place of business owned, leased or controlled by a licensee.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1025))
Sec. 6-39. - Retail dealers to buy only from licensed wholesalers.
No licensed retail dealer of alcoholic beverages shall buy or arrange to buy or in any way effect the transfer of any alcoholic beverage except from a licensed wholesaler.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1026))
Sec. 6-40. - Storage of inventory by retail dealers.
No licensed retail dealer of alcoholic beverages shall keep any alcoholic beverage at any place except the licensed place of business. No licensed retail dealer shall be permitted to enter into any type of arrangement whereby alcoholic beverages ordered by a licensee are stored by a licensed wholesaler.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1027))
Sec. 6-41. - Refilling bottles; misrepresentation of product.
It shall be illegal for a person holding a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages to add to the contents of a bottle or to refill empty bottles or in any other matter to misrepresent the quantity, quality or brand name of any alcoholic beverage.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1028))
Sec. 6-42. - Holding interest in both retail and wholesale business.
No person shall hold a license for the retail sale of alcoholic beverages who also has any direct financial interest in any wholesale liquor business. No financial aid or assistance to any licensee under this article from any wholesaler or manufacturer of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1029))
Secs. 6-43—6-55. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 6-56. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of selling any alcoholic beverage within the corporate limits of the city without first obtaining a license to do so.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1002))
State Law reference— License from county or municipality required for wholesale or retail sales of wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-40.
Sec. 6-57. - Contents of application.
Any person desiring to engage in the business of operating a package shop or otherwise selling any alcoholic beverage shall file with the city administrator an application in writing on a form furnished by the city, setting forth the following:
(1)
The name, age and address of the applicant.
(2)
A brief, concise personal history of the applicant.
(3)
The name, age and address of all persons with a financial interest in the proposed business. For corporations, this shall include all stockholders who own more than ten percent of the outstanding stock of the corporation.
(4)
The location from which the applicant intends to do business.
(5)
The penal history, if any, of the applicant.
(6)
The interest owned or held by the applicant in the premises.
(7)
The names and addresses of five persons who will vouch for the character of the applicant.
(8)
A statement as to whether the applicant intends to operate such business in person, or, if he intends to have some other person manage the business, the name of such person. The manager in such case shall be required to file an application setting forth the information required by subsections (1), (2), (5) and (7) of this section.
(9)
The kind of license desired.
(10)
Whether the applicant is engaged or expects to engage in other kinds of business at the location.
(11)
The fingerprints of the applicant, for the initial application only.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1003))
Sec. 6-58. - Fee.
(a)
The license fees required for any business engaged in the sale of alcoholic beverages shall be as determined from time to time by the city council and listed in the business license fee schedule on file in the city clerk's office.
(b)
A certified or cashier's check or money order shall accompany each application for a license, and the city administrator shall not receive such application unless the license fee is tendered in the correct amount. The license fee shall be paid in advance on or before January 1 of each year, and any new license granted under this division during a calendar year shall cost the full license fee without proration, except that the fee for a new license granted after June 30 in any calendar year shall be 50 percent of the annual license fee for the remainder of the calendar year.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1004))
Sec. 6-59. - Public notice of application.
The applicant for a license under this division shall give notice to the public by advertisement published at least three times on different days in the official newspaper of the city, in substantially the following form:
Notice is hereby given that (name of applicant) has made application for a license to sell alcoholic beverages at (address of proposed location). Said application will be heard by the City Council of Garden City at _____ o'clock, p.m., on the (date) at the City Hall.
The cost of the notice shall be paid by the applicant, and no application shall be considered until such notice shall have been published in the newspaper within two weeks prior to the meeting at which the application will be heard.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1005))
Sec. 6-60. - Police investigation.
A copy of each application for a license under this division, or for the approval of any manager of a business engaged in selling alcoholic beverages, shall be given to the city police department, which shall conduct a thorough investigation of the applicant, or manager, or both, as the case may require, and shall make a report in writing to the city council with its recommendations. Each applicant for a license shall furnish all data, information and records requested by the police department, and failure to furnish such data, information and records within 30 days from the date of such request shall automatically serve to dismiss, with prejudice, the application. Applicants, by filing an application, agree to produce for oral interrogation any persons requested by the police department and considered important in the ascertainment of the facts relative to such license.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1006))
Sec. 6-61. - Making false application.
Any untrue or misleading information contained in or material omission left out of any original, renewal or transfer application for a license under this division shall be cause for the denial thereof, and if any license has been granted under these circumstances there shall be cause for the revocation of the license.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1007))
Sec. 6-62. - Consideration of application; approval or denial.
(a)
When a license to sell alcoholic beverages is applied for and filed with the city, the clerk shall, within five days of the time the application is filed, give the applicant written notice of the time and place where such application will be heard by the city council. The hearing shall be within a period of time not less than five days and not more than 15 days from the time of service of such notice on the applicant; provided, the hearing may be heard at any time agreed upon by the applicant and the city council, which agreement shall be noted on the minutes of the hearing.
(b)
At the time and place set for the hearing on the application, the city council shall consider evidence presented by the applicant as to his fitness to engage in the business of selling alcoholic beverages and shall allow any interested party to present evidence to the contrary. After having received such evidence and after having considered the report of the police department, if the city council is satisfied that the applicant meets the standards set forth by this article, the applicant shall be granted a license; otherwise, the license shall be denied. If any application is denied, no reapplication shall be received for the balance of the fiscal year.
(c)
All decisions of the city council either approving or denying a license application shall be stated in writing, and a copy of such statement shall be provided to the applicant either personally or by certified mail.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1008))
Sec. 6-63. - Qualifications of licensee.
(a)
No license shall be granted under this division to any applicant who is not a citizen of the state. Where the applicant is a corporation, the license shall be issued to its acting manager, who must meet the requirements of this division. If the applicant is a partnership, the requirements of this division shall apply to all the partners.
(b)
No license shall be granted under this division to any elected or fulltime appointed official of the city, or his spouse or minor children.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1009))
Sec. 6-64. - Factors to be considered in issuing license.
In determining whether or not any license applied for under this division shall be granted, the following shall be considered in the public interest and welfare:
(1)
The applicant's reputation, character and mental and physical capacity to conduct this business.
(2)
That the applicant has not been convicted within ten years prior to the filing of the application of illegally possessing, transporting or selling intoxicating liquors, and that he has never been convicted of an offense involving moral turpitude or a felony.
(3)
That the applicant is the true and actual owner of the business for which the license is desired and that he intends to operate the business in person, or, if the business is to be operated by some other person, that such person complies with the standards of this division.
(4)
The suitability of the location for which the license is sought as to traffic congestion, general character of the neighborhood, and the effect such establishment would have on the adjacent and surrounding property values.
(5)
The number of licenses already granted for similar businesses in the trading area of the place for which the license is sought.
(6)
If the applicant is a previous holder of a license to sell alcoholic beverages, whether or not he has violated any law, regulation or ordinance relating to the sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages.
(7)
If the applicant is a previous holder of a license to sell alcoholic beverages, the manner in which he conducted his business thereunder as to the necessity for unusual police observation and inspection in order to prevent the violation of any law, regulation or ordinance relating to the sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages.
(8)
If dancing is to be permitted upon the premises for which the license is sought, and the applicant has previously permitted dancing upon any premises controlled or supervised by him, the manner in which he controlled or supervised such dancing to prevent any violation of any law, regulation or ordinance.
It shall be the policy of the city to deny a license to any establishment not meeting the standards set forth in this section.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1010))
State Law reference— Governing authority shall set forth ascertainable standards pertaining to the granting, refusal, suspension or revocation of alcoholic beverage permits or licenses, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2.
Sec. 6-65. - Grocery stores and similar establishments not to be licensed for sale of distilled spirits.
No license shall be issued for the sale of distilled spirits within a grocery store, supermarket, meat market or any other like wholesale or retail establishment.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1011))
State Law reference— Sales of alcoholic beverages near churches, schools or college campus, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21.
Sec. 6-66. - Separate application required for each place of business.
A separate application for a license under this division shall be filed with respect to each place of business.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1012))
Sec. 6-67. - Time limit for commencing business.
All holders of licenses under this division must, within nine months after the issuance of the license, open for business the establishment referred to in the license and begin the sale of the products authorized by the license. Failure to open the establishment and begin the sale as referred to in this section within the nine-month period shall serve as automatic forfeiture and cancellation of the unused license, and no refund for license fees shall be made to the license holder.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1013))
Sec. 6-68. - Forfeiture of license on cessation of business.
Any holder of a license under this division who shall begin the operation of the business and sale of the products as authorized in the license, but who shall, for a period of nine consecutive months thereafter, cease to operate the business and sale of the products authorized in the license, shall, upon completion of the nine-month period, automatically forfeit his license, and the license shall, by virtue of the failure to operate, be cancelled without the necessity of any further action of the police department or the city council.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1014))
Sec. 6-69. - Transfer of license or change of location.
Licenses issued under this division shall not be transferable except in the following cases:
(1)
Where a retail licensee is moving his package sales business to a different location, he shall be authorized to make application to have the license for the location previously occupied apply to the new location. If the retail licensee complies with all other requirements of law, the city council shall authorize the existing license to apply to a new location.
(2)
Where a retail licensee dies, the license may be transferred, in the discretion of the city council, to the administrator, executor or heirs of the deceased individual.
(3)
Where one or more of the partners in a partnership holding a license withdraw from the partnership, the license may be transferred in favor of one or more of the partners who were partners at the time of the issuance of the license.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1015))
Sec. 6-70. - Change of manager.
No new manager shall be allowed to operate any business licensed under the provisions of this division except the one stated in the application and approved by the city council.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1016))
Sec. 6-71. - Duration; refund of fee.
No license shall be issued under this division for less than a calendar year period, or the remainder thereof, and in case of the revocation or surrender of such license before the expiration of such calendar year period the holder thereof shall not be entitled to receive any refund whatsoever of license fees.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1019))
Sec. 6-72. - Renewal.
All licensees under this division shall annually, and before January 1 in each year, make application, on forms prescribed by the city administrator, for a renewal of their license. Such application shall set forth any changes, if any, that have occurred since the issuance of the original license, including the name of the manager, if any, the type of alcoholic beverages being sold and such other information as required by the city administrator. After considering the application and other evidence, the city council shall determine whether the license shall be renewed.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1017))
Sec. 6-73. - Display.
A license issued under this division shall be displayed prominently at all times on the premises for which the license was issued.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1020))
Sec. 6-74. - Revocation or suspension.
(a)
Any license issued under this division may be revoked or suspended by a majority vote by the city council. Grounds for revocation of license will be:
(1)
Violation of any law or ordinance regulating the sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages;
(2)
Violation of any regulation made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulating the sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages;
(3)
Violation of any state or federal law;
(4)
Violation of any city ordinance other than traffic ordinances; or
(5)
The manner in which the business is conducted as to the necessity for unusual police observation and inspection in order to prevent the violation of any law, regulation or ordinance relating to the sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages or any violation of any city, state or federal law.
(b)
Upon the city council's having cause to believe that there may exist grounds for revocation or suspension of a license issued to any party for the sale of alcoholic beverages under this division, the city administrator shall give written notice directed to such party to show cause, if any, before the city council at a regular meeting on the stated date, which shall not be less than seven days from the time such notice is served on the party in question, why the license should not be revoked or suspended. The notice shall include:
(1)
A statement of the time, place and nature of the hearing.
(2)
The reasons for such revocation or suspension.
(3)
A short and plain statement of the matters asserted.
(4)
A statement as to the right of any party to representation by legal counsel at the hearing, the right of any party to present evidence on all issues, and the right of any party to subpoena witnesses.
At the hearing, all parties may be represented by legal counsel, and may respond to and present evidence on all issues involved.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1018))
State Law reference— Powers of local governing authorities as to the granting, refusal, suspension or revocation of alcoholic beverage permits or licenses, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2.
Secs. 6-75—6-85. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - SALE FOR ON-PREMISES CONSUMPTION

Sec. 6-86. - Penalty for violation of division.
Any person violating any provision of this division, upon conviction in the municipal court, shall be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1044))
Sec. 6-87. - Violations by licensees.
A violation of any of the provisions of this division by the holder of a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises shall cause the revocation of the license.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1043))
Sec. 6-88. - Copy of division to be kept on premises; instruction of employees.
It shall be the duty of the management of premises licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption thereon to maintain a copy of this division on such premises and to instruct every employee of the terms thereof.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1042))
Sec. 6-89. - Hours and days of sale.
(a)
No alcoholic beverage shall be sold, given away, bartered or otherwise placed for consumption on the premises:
(1)
After the hour of 2:55 a.m. on Tuesday through Sunday or before 6:30 a.m. on Monday through Saturday of each week.
(2)
On Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day and after the hour of 2:55 a.m. on Sundays.
(b)
The sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises is hereby authorized during any election day.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1033), (6-1033A); Ord. of 8-6-84(1), § 1; Ord. of 9-15-86(2), § 1)
Sec. 6-90. - Minors on licensed premises.
No person who holds a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises shall allow any minor to be in, frequent or loiter about the licensed premises of a nightclub or lounge unless such minor is accompanied by a parent or legal guardian; provided, however, that such minor shall be permitted in restaurants without being accompanied by a parent or a legal guardian, and provided, further, that this section shall not apply to minors who are employees under the terms of this article.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1034))
Sec. 6-91. - Package sales.
A person who holds a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises shall not permit the sale, delivery or other dispensing of alcoholic beverages by the bottle or package. Persons holding such licenses, however, shall have the right to sell wines, champagnes or malt beverages to the public by the bottle or package for consumption on the premises without the issuance of a separate retail license therefor.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1036))
Sec. 6-92. - Serving of drinks.
Drinks served on premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises shall only be served by employees of the establishment.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1037))
Sec. 6-93. - Doing business in rooms not open to public; public access to premises.
The sale, service, delivery or other dispensing of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises by persons in any back room or side room which is not open for general public use is prohibited. No person other than the employees of the licensee shall be permitted on the premises when the business is not open to the general public. The main entrance to the premises shall not be locked when the business is open to the general public.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1035))
Sec. 6-94. - Sales outside premises.
It shall be unlawful for any sales to be made outside the building, premises or place of business licensed for sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises except as permitted in this division.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1038))
Sec. 6-95. - Connection of premises to residential facilities.
No room, apartment or residence occupied, leased or rented for the purpose of providing sleeping facilities or living quarters shall be in any way connected by door or otherwise with premises wherein alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption on the premises.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1040))
Sec. 6-96. - Employment of persons convicted of certain crimes.
It shall be unlawful to employ on any premises used for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink any person in any capacity whatsoever, including performers, entertainers and musicians, who has been convicted in this or any other state or by the United States or any other country of soliciting for prostitution, pandering, lending premises for prostitution, keeping a disorderly place, illegally dealing in narcotics, sex offenses or violating any law related to the manufacture or sale of alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1039))
Sec. 6-97. - Prohibited entertainment, attire and conduct.
(a)
The following types of entertainment, attire and conduct are not permitted upon any premises licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises:
(1)
The employment or use of any person, in any capacity, in the sale or service of alcoholic beverages while such person is in such attire, costume or clothing as to expose to view any portion of the female breast below the top of the areola or any other portion of the pubic hair, anus, cleft of the buttocks, vulva or genitals;
(2)
Live entertainment where any person appears in the manner described in subsection (1) of this section or where any person performs acts which simulate:
a.
Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy or bestiality;
b.
The touching, caressing or fondling of the breast, buttocks, anus or genitals; or
c.
The display of the pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals;
(3)
The showing of any film, still pictures, electronic reproduction or other visual reproduction depicting any of the acts described in subsection (2) of this section; or
(4)
The holding, promotion or allowance of any contest, promotion, special night or any other activity where patrons of a licensed establishment are encouraged or allowed to engage in any of the conduct prohibited in this section.
(b)
Nothing contained in this section shall apply to the premises of any mainstream performance house, museum or theater which derives less than 20 percent of its gross annual income from alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1041); Ord. of 10-18-93(1), § 1)
Cross reference— Adult entertainment establishments, § 22-381 et seq.
State Law reference— Public indecency, O.C.G.A. § 16-6-8; prohibited conduct on licensed premises, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-40 et seq.
Sec. 6-98. - Sunday hours of sale in hotels or motels.
(a)
For the purposes of this section, "hotel or motel" means every building or other structure maintained and held out to the public to a place where food is actually served and consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to the travelers and guests, whether transient or permanent, in which 100 or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one or more public dining rooms, with adequate and sanitary kitchen facilities and a seating capacity of at least 100 where meals are regularly served to such guests, such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or in separate buildings or structures used in connection therewith that are on the same premises and are part of the hotel or motel operation.
(b)
The sale of alcoholic beverages is authorized for consumption on the premises in any hotel or motel on Sundays between the hours of 11:30 a.m. and 12:00 midnight provided that such hotel or motel is licensed to sell distilled spirits, malt beverages or wines, and derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross income form the rental of rooms for overnight lodging.
(Ord. of 5-4-92(1), § 1; Ord. No. 2019-13, § 1, 11-18-19)
Sec. 6-99. - Sunday hours of sale in certain restaurants.
The sale of alcoholic beverages is authorized for consumption on the premises in any eating establishment within a C-2, C-2A, C-2A (B&W), and M zoning district on Sundays between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight. As used in this Code Section, the term "eating establishment" means an establishment which is licensed to sell distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wines, and which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross food and beverages sales from the sale of prepared meals or food.
(Ord. No. 2010-6, § 1, 4-5-10; Ord. No. 2019-13, § 2, 11-18-19)
Secs. 6-100—6-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - SALE FOR OFF-PREMISES CONSUMPTION

Sec. 6-111. - Penalty for violation of division.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this division, upon conviction in the municipal court, shall be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1044))
Sec. 6-112. - Violations by licensees.
A violation of any of the provisions of this division by the holder of a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages not for consumption on the premises shall cause the revocation of such license.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1048))
Sec. 6-113. - Copy of division to be kept on premises; instruction of employees.
A retail dealer licensed for sale of alcoholic beverages not for consumption on the premises shall maintain a copy of this division on the premises and instruct every employee of the terms thereof.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1047))
Sec. 6-114. - Hours and days of sale.
(a)
No alcoholic beverage shall be sold, given away, bartered, traded or otherwise disposed of by any person or by any place licensed for sale of alcoholic beverages not for consumption of the premises:
(1)
Between the hours of 12:00 a.m. (midnight) and 8:00 a.m.
(2)
On Thanksgiving and Christmas days.
(3)
On Sundays before the hour of 11:00 a.m. and after 12:00 a.m. (midnight).
(b)
The sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption not on the premises is hereby authorized during any election date.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1045), (6-1045A); Ord. of 9-15-86(3), § 1; Ord. No. 2016-12, § 11-21-16; Ord. No. 2021-01, § 1, 1-19-21)
Sec. 6-115. - Place of sale or delivery of goods.
No retail dealer licensed for sale of alcoholic beverages not for consumption on the premises shall sell or deliver any alcoholic beverages to any person except in the dealer's place of business. A retail dealer shall be permitted to load purchased goods in a customer's vehicle when the sale physically takes place and monies have been exchanged inside the place of business. A retail dealer licensee shall be permitted to have a drive-in window, and it shall be permissible for the licensee or the licensee's employees to deliver alcoholic beverages through such window. Curb service type sales and sales to customers in vehicles parked in the parking area of the place of business are prohibited.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1046))
Sec. 6-116. - Wine, beer and malt beverage tasting permitted under certain circumstances.
(a)
The holder of a package beer and wine license shall be eligible for an ancillary wine, beer and malt beverage tasting license to provide samples of wine, beer and malt beverages offered for sale to customers under the conditions set forth in this section.
(b)
Wine, beer and malt beverage sampling authorized by holding a license therefor shall be on limited occasions when a customer requests a sample of a wine, beer or malt beverage offered for sale within the premises, or in conjunction with education classes and sampling designed to promote wine, beer and malt beverage appreciation and education.
(c)
Wine, beer or malt beverage tasting for customers authorized by holding a license therefor shall be conducted only at counter area constituting no more than ten percent of the entire floor area of the premises.
(d)
Such authorized sampling for customers shall be limited to no more than one time per day, on the days of the week authorized by state law to sell beer and wine by the package, for a period of not to exceed two consecutive hours. Samples shall not exceed two ounces, and no customer shall consume more than eight ounces in any two-hour period.
(e)
The holder of an ancillary wine, beer and malt beverage tasting license may conduct educational classes and sampling for classes not more than two times per week for a period of not to exceed two consecutive hours. All conditions of sampling set forth in this section shall apply to such classes, except for the limitation on floor areas where the classes can be conducted.
(f)
Wine, beer and malt beverage bottles shall be opened by the licensee or an employee only, and samples shall be poured only by the licensee and/or an employee.
(g)
No open containers of wine, beer and malt beverage shall be removed from the licensed premises.
(h)
Holders of an ancillary wine, beer and malt beverage tasting license shall not charge for samples or tastings.
(i)
Such authorized sampling and tasting is permitted within the enclosed portion of the premises only.
(j)
The application forms for the issuance of an ancillary wine, beer and malt beverage tasting license shall be supplied by the city clerk's office.
(k)
The annual fee for an ancillary wine, beer and malt beverage tasting license shall be set and may be revised by resolution of the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 2013-2, § 1, 4-15-13)
Secs. 6-117—6-135. - Reserved.
