ARTICLE V. - WATER AND SEWER RATES AND CHARGES

Sec. 82-171. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-4, § 2, adopted March 2, 2009, repealed § 82-171, which pertained to water and sewer system accounts; establishment of rates. See the Code Comparative Table for complete derivation.
Sec. 82-172. - Definition of residential equivalent unit.
For the purposes of interpreting the provisions of this article V, a residential equivalent unit is defined as that portion of a user's facility that has an impact on the water and wastewater system equivalent to a single-family residence. The determination of a facility's residential equivalent unit shall be based on estimated water consumption as shown in guidelines established by the city administrator, and approved, from time to time, by city council, or on square footage. Peak water consumption of 300 gallons per day or a floor space of 3,000 square feet, shall be the equivalent of one residential unit. The method which results in the greater number of equivalent residential units shall be applied. The standards in the above-mentioned guidelines shall be used in the determination of water consumption. If the guidelines do not provide information for a particular application, the estimated water consumption shall be calculated by the city administrator in accordance with sound engineering practices used and information available from the Georgia EPD, U.S. EPA, or standard reference materials, commonly used for estimating flows.
(Ord. of 12-17-07, § 1)
Sec. 82-173. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-4, § 3, adopted March 2, 2009, repealed § 82-173, which pertained to deposit required; receipt; disposition of funds. See the Code Comparative Table for complete derivation.
Sec. 82-174. - Connection charges established; payment of cost of connection.
Water and waste water tap-in fees shall be charged on the basis of residential units or equivalent residential units according to a fee schedule established by the city administrator and approved, from time to time, by city council. The tap fee for water service shall include the charge for connecting the utility force main with the service lateral. The consumer/owner shall also pay an installation fee for the labor and materials necessary to install the water meter measuring the water flow to the premises served (including the meter itself, backflow preventer, and meter box), and the service lateral running from the tap juncture to the water meter. Any connections from the meter to the premises being furnished utilities shall be under the supervision and inspection of the director of the city's water and sewer department. If the consumer/owner uses an independent qualified plumber instead of city labor to install the water and sewer connections, a reduced installation fee will be charged to cover the cost of the water meter and associated parts, and the cost of the city's inspection of the plumber's work.
(Ord. of 12-17-07, § 1; Ord. No. 2008-15, § 1, 5-5-08)
Sec. 82-175. - Use of sewer connection charge.
All fees charged for each tap or connection for sewer service to the municipal sewer system shall be deposited by the city administrator in an interest-bearing bank account separate from other funds of the city and shall be used by the city only for the purpose of expanding, modifying, or enlarging the sewage treatment facility or plant of the city and for no other purpose. The city administrator shall maintain a separate receipt book for each tap or connection fee on the payment of the fee and keep a duplicate receipt and ledger for each connection or tap fee deposited in the separate bank account.
(Ord. of 12-17-07, § 1)
Sec. 82-176. - Water meters.
(a)
Installation of water meters, in general. Water meters shall be installed on the premises or properties occupied by all the users of water furnished by the city at a location established by building inspector.
(b)
Number of meters to be installed.
(1)
A separate meter shall be installed for each single-family residence in the city.
(2)
In all multiunit residential dwellings or apartment buildings containing four or less residential units, or trailer parks containing four or less manufactured homes, there shall be a separate meter installed for each dwelling unit and for all accessory improvements of the owner using water.
(3)
With respect to all multiunit residential dwellings or apartment buildings containing four or more residential units, or trailer parks containing four or more manufactured homes built after January 1, 2008, there shall be a separate meter installed for each dwelling unit and for all accessory improvements of the owner using water, with a master meter located at the connection point between the city's water main and the major service lateral servicing the underlying property for the purpose of measuring the total flow of water being furnished to the entire property.
(4)
With respect to all multiunit residential dwellings or apartment buildings containing four or more residential units, or trailer parks containing four or more manufactured homes built prior to January 1, 2008, there shall either be (A) a single water meter for the entire property if already existing as of January 1, 2008, or (B) a separate meter for each building or dwelling unit and for all accessory improvements of the owner using water, with a master meter located at the connection point between the city's water main and the major service lateral servicing the underlying property for the purpose of measuring the total flow of water being furnished to the entire property.
(5)
Whether any commercial development (excluding apartment complexes) is on a single water meter, or multiple meters shall be determined by the city administrator based on its physical make-up including, but not limited to, the size, number, and location of its buildings and units. If individual meters are required for each commercial unit, a master meter measuring the total water flow to the commercial parcel may also be required by the city administrator if he, in his sole discretion, deems one necessary.
(c)
Extent of maintaining and repairing meters and service lines.
(1)
The cost of the maintenance of city-supplied water meters, including meter connections, shall be borne by the city.
(2)
The service line(s) running from the water main to the property owner's meter(s) shall be maintained by either (A) the city at the property owner's cost (except that repairs will be made at the expense of the city when the damage being repaired is due to negligence on the part of the city or (B) the property owner with the understanding that such maintenance and repair work shall be performed at the property owner's cost and under the supervision and inspection of the city's water and sewer director from whom the property owner shall get pre-approval for any repair and maintenance work and with the additional understanding that all repairs to such line(s) be repaired within 24 hours of being notified of the need therefor. Any property owner opting to perform such maintenance and repair work itself must submit a written request to do so to the city administrator who shall grant same based on his discretion reasonably exercised. If the property owner defaults upon its assumed responsibility of performing such maintenance and repair work on the service line(s), and such default continues after being given reasonable notice to cure same, the city may perform the necessary work and be reimbursed by the property owner for the cost of same. If the city is not paid for any maintenance and repair work which it performs pursuant to this subsection 82-176(c)(2), it may cut off the supply of water, and water will not be turned on again, until the charges are paid to the city.
(3)
The property owner shall maintain the service lines running from the meters to the premises served. The city may, in case of emergency, repair any service line running from any meter to the premises served and, if this is done, the cost of such repair work shall be repaid to the city by the owner of the premises.
(d)
Adjustment to charges. The city manager or designee shall be authorized to make equitable adjustments in billings for wastewater services only in cases where leaks and pipes and plumbing facilities result in increased billings without fault on the part of the customer. The billing adjustment policy is allowed to promote water conservation programs of the city and to provide a financial incentive for customers to maintain private water service lines and building plumbing fixtures. Such adjustments shall be made based on an average of prior billings only after repairs have been made as certified by a licensed plumber or other acceptable information that documents the water line repair. Utility billing adjustments will be allowed and determined as follows:
(1)
Utility billing adjustments are allowed for residential and non-residential water/sewer customer categories; however, the customer must have sewer service.
(2)
Utility billing adjustments are only available to sewer customers and will be determined based on the sewer portion of the water/sewer bill (adjustments not being allowed for water-only customers in that the entire cost of delivery of water service has been completed when water passes the utility meter).
(3)
Customers will be allowed to apply for one utility billing adjustment per year.
(4)
Utility billing adjustments are determined using the 12-month history of metered water consumption/sewer usage for the period preceding the high-consumption month when the water leak is repaired. In the event that a customer has less than a 12-month usage history, the average consumption will be determined by the city on a case by case basis.
(5)
When a billing adjustment is allowed, it will be determined using the current utility billing rate schedule and based on one-half of the high consumption month sewer bill above the average sewer consumption be allowed as a credit.
The following provides an example of how an adjustment should be determined:
EXPAND
6,500 gal/mo 12-month average metered water
consumption/sewer usage
$25.30 Amount determined for average
monthly sewer bill
15,000 gal/mo High metered water consumption/sewer usage for the month prior to repair of a water leak
$47.25 Amount determined for high
sewer usage month
$21.95 Difference in high consumption month and average month sewer bill
$10.98 Billing adjustment amount allowed
(i.e. $10.98 = $21.95/2)
  (e)
Procedure when meter is inaccessible. If a meter reader is unable to procure a reading of a meter after two calls due to the occupant not permitting entrance, or entrance to the premises is made precarious by a vicious dog or otherwise, or ingress to the meter is obstructed in any way whatsoever, the water may be shutoff by the city and an estimated charge made for the amount of water consumed. In case the water is shutoff for any of such reasons, it will not be turned on again until free access to the meter is provided and payment of arrearage is made.
(f)
Control; interference unlawful. All meters shall remain under the direct control of the city and it shall be unlawful for persons other than those authorized by the city to connect, disconnect, or tamper with any such meter.
(g)
Water and sewage fees for industrial establishments. In cases where the character of the sewage from any manufacturer or industrial plant, building, or premises is such that it imposes an unreasonable burden upon the city sewage disposal system, a charge in addition to that already imposed by the city upon such business may be made therefor, and/or the council may, as it deems it advisable, compel such manufacturing or industrial plant, building, or premises to treat such sewage in such manner as shall be specified by council before discharging such sewage in any sewer lines owned or maintained by the city. Factors considered in setting the additional sewer charge shall include, but not be limited to, the constituents and characteristics of the plant's wastewater, the quantity of water consumed by the establishment, the number and size of sewer connections, and the necessity for the city to establish monitoring programs. No such additional charge shall be fixed until after a public hearing at which the owners, tenants, or occupants of the property served or to be served by the sewage disposal system and all others interested shall have an opportunity to be heard concerning the proposed additional charge.
(h)
Filling of swimming pools. Whenever a swimming pool is filled with water, the property owner, tenant, or other person owning the pool shall apply to the city administrator for an adjustment of his/her utility bill to account for the lack of sewer service incidental thereto.
(Ord. of 12-17-07, § 1; Ord. No. 2008-1, § 3, 1-22-08; Ord. No. 2008-15, §§ 2, 3, 5-5-08; Ord. No. 2009-4, § 4, 3-2-09; Ord. No. 2012-8, § 1, 8-20-12)
Sec. 82-177. - Overhead sprinkler systems.
There shall be an additional charge imposed as established by the city administrator, and approved by mayor and council from time to time, for any overhead sprinkler system installed in any facility serviced by the city's water.
(Ord. of 12-17-07, § 1)
Sec. 82-178. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-4, § 5, adopted March 2, 2009, deleted § 82-178, which pertained to responsibility for payment of charges; lien for unpaid charges. See the Code Comparative Table for complete derivation.
Sec. 82-179. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-4, § 6, adopted March 2, 2009, deleted § 82-179, which pertained to execution for unpaid charges not to be issued when deposit has been made. See the Code Comparative Table for complete derivation.
Sec. 82-180. - Multiple users.
(a)
Served by single line. The owner of the premises and real property shall be liable for the payment of all charges for water and sewer service to the premises in all cases where there is more than one user on one water system line without a separate stopcock installed for each user. In such cases, the owner shall be required to file an application in accordance with section 82-28 and the owner shall be responsible for the charges in accordance with section 82-178. In all such cases where there is more than one user on a line served by one stopcock, a deposit will not be accepted from any of the occupants, tenants or users who may be served by the same water line.
(b)
Served by multiple lines. The owner of a multiunit property shall not be billed for units whose occupants have applied for water service and receive it through individual meters. Such owner shall also not be billed for occupants who have not paid water bills and for vacated separately metered units. The owner shall pay, however, for water which is being supplied to its accessory improvements, if any, through an individual meter, and for water which is being supplied to its property but not flowing through any individual meter located thereon, which amount being computed by subtracting the total amount of water running through the individual meters from the amount of water running through the master meter located on the property as required by Code section 82-176.
(Ord. of 12-17-07, § 1; Ord. No. 2008-1, § 4, 1-22-08; Ord. No. 2008-15, § 5, 5-5-08)
Sec. 82-181. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-4, § 7, adopted March 2, 2009, deleted § 82-181, which pertained to collection of processing fee for returned checks presented to the city for payment of water ans sewer charges. See the Code Comparative Table for complete derivation.
Sec. 82-182. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-4, § 8, adopted March 2, 2009, deleted § 82-182, which pertained to right to shutoff utilities for repair; emergencies. See the Code Comparative Table for complete derivation.
Sec. 82-183. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-4, § 9, adopted March 2, 2009, deleted § 82-183, which pertained to damaging, injuring, or interfering with property of the combined system. See the Code Comparative Table for complete derivation.
Sec. 82-184. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-4, § 10, adopted March 2, 2009, deleted § 82-184, which pertained to termination of service for nonpayment of charges. See the Code Comparative Table for complete derivation.
Sec. 82-185. - Use of water to supply private irrigation systems.
All irrigation systems installed after May 6, 2008, shall not use city water, but shall instead use water from private shallow wells.
(Ord. No. 2008-15, § 6, 5-5-08)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2008-15, § 6, adopted May 5, 2008, set out provisions intended for use as § 82-186. For purposes of classification, and at the editor's discretion, these provisions have been included as § 82-185.
Sec. 82-186. - Reduction of water and sewer connection fees for certain development projects within the city's urban redevelopment area and revitalization area.
In order to accommodate future residential and commercial development in the city's urban redevelopment area and revitalization area, the Garden City imposed water and sewer connection fees for the following types of projects will be reduced as indicated:
(1)
Residential: Water and sewer connection charges for certain residential projects in which funding is being provided by the federal government shall be reduced in favor of a flat rate to be established in accordance with the annual fee schedule approved by the mayor and council as may be revised from time to time. In order to be eligible for such reduction, the project must meet the following criteria:
a.
The proposed residential construction or rehabilitation project must be for and an owner occupied/homeownership project;
b.
The proposed residential construction or rehabilitation project must be affordable housing construction only as defined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD") (HUD defining affordable housing as housing for which occupants are paying no more than 30 percent of their income for gross housing costs, including utilities) or in accordance with the latest HUD criteria;
c.
The proposed residential construction or rehabilitation project must fall within the boundaries of the city's revitalization area strategy;
d.
The constructed residences must be compatible with the surrounding neighborhood; and,
e.
The proposed residential construction or rehabilitation project must be funded via a federal grant.
Any fee reduction shall be counted towards meeting any local match requirement under the terms of the applicable federal grant.
(2)
Commercial: Water and sewer connection fees for hotel and hospitality industry projects within the boundaries of the city's designated urban redevelopment area shall be reduced in favor of a flat rate to be established in accordance with the annual fee schedule approved by the mayor and council as may be revised from time to time. In order to be eligible for such reduction, the hotel and hospitality industry project must meet the following criteria:
a.
The proposed hotel and hospitality industry project must be for the construction of a hotel and hospitality industry development with provisions for an on-site restaurant accessible to the general public in addition to hotel guests;
b.
Both the proposed hotel and restaurant must be located on the same parcel or directly abutting parcels;
c.
The hotel and hospitality industry project must fall within the boundaries of the city's designated urban redevelopment area;
d.
Both the hotel/hospitality industry project and restaurant must create at least eight full-time jobs at each facility;
e.
The proposed hotel and hospitality industry project must be within one-half mile walking distance (measured from a main building entrance) of one or more stops for public bus lines usable by hotel guests and staff;
f.
The hotel and hospitality industry project must be compatible with the surrounding neighborhood;
g.
Both the hotel/hospitality industry project and on-site restaurant must commence construction by obtaining a Garden City building permit within 12 months from the date of the fee waiver acknowledgement from the city; and
h.
Both the hotel/hospitality industry project and on-site restaurant must have separately completed construction and subsequently obtained a Garden City certificate of occupancy within 12 months of the Garden City building permit issuance date.
Failure to meet and document the criteria detailed herein before the issuance of a Garden City certificate of occupancy may result in the city revoking the fee adjustments and/or incentives granted in this article.
The fees reduced or adjusted under this section 82-186 shall not include water meter fees pursuant to Code section 82-176.
(Ord. No. 2019-4, § 1, 5-6-19)
Secs. 82-187—82-200. - Reserved.
