ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - City manager's emergency powers.
In addition to any and all other powers, the city manager or his/her designee, as the chief executive of the city, shall have further emergency powers as follows:
(1)
The city manager or his/her designee shall have the right to declare an emergency to exist when, in his opinion, one or more of the following conditions exist:
a.
There is extreme likelihood or danger of destruction of life or property due to unusual conditions;
b.
There are unusual or extreme weather conditions making use of city streets or other areas difficult or impossible;
c.
Civil unrest, commotion or uprising is imminent or exists; or
d.
There is a stoppage or loss of electrical power affecting a major portion of the city.
(2)
During the declared emergency operational period, the city manager or his/her designee, as chief executive, shall have the right to exercise any or all of the following powers:
a.
The power to use employees of the city to assist in the safety and preservation of life, limb and property of citizens of the city;
b.
The power to close streets and sidewalks and to delineate areas within the city wherein an emergency exists;
c.
The power to impose emergency curfew regulations;
d.
The power to close business establishments within the affected area;
e.
The power to close any and all municipally owned buildings and other facilities to the use of the general public;
f.
The power to do any and all acts necessary and incidental to the preservation of life, limb and property of the citizens of the city;
g.
The power to seize or take private property for temporary use only if it cannot be acquired, temporarily or permanently, by purchase, donation or lease, and only if there is a compelling necessity for the protection of the lives, health, welfare and/or property of citizens;
h.
The power to sell, lend, give, or distribute all or any such property among the inhabitants of the city and to account to the proper state or local agencies for any funds received for the property;
i.
The power to suspend any regulatory ordinance prescribing the procedures for the conduct of city business if strict compliance with any ordinance would in any way prevent, hinder, or delay necessary action in coping with the emergency or disaster;
j.
The power to utilize all available resources of the city government and subordinate departments over which it has budgetary control as reasonably necessary to cope with the emergency disaster;
k.
The power to transfer direction, personnel, or functions of any city department for the purpose of performing or facilitating emergency services;
l.
The power to commandeer or utilize any private property if the city manager finds this necessary to cope with the emergency or disaster;
m.
The power to prescribe routes, modes of transportation, and destinations in connection with evacuation;
n.
The power to suspend or limit the sale, dispensing, or transportation of alcoholic beverages, firearms, explosives, and combustibles;
o.
The power to make provisions for the availability and use of temporary emergency housing; and,
p.
The power to coordinate the exercise of the above emergency powers within the city with the municipalities in Chatham County, Georgia, and other appropriate county, state, and federal officials.
(3)
The declaration of an emergency as to a portion of the city shall specify with exactness the area in which the emergency is declared to exist.
(Code 1976, § 2-3001; Ord. of 11-3-97, § 1; Ord. No. 2018-14, § 1, 12-3-19)
Charter reference— Powers and duties of mayor, § 3.12.
Cross reference— Emergency services, ch. 26.
Sec. 2-2. - Legislative department established.
The mayor and city council establish the legislative department and shall provide sufficient annual expenditure appropriation to the department for the proper functioning and exercise of authority granted by the City Charter.
(Ord. No. 2001-16, 12-3-01)
Secs. 2-3—2-25. - Reserved.
