Chapter 26 - EMERGENCY SERVICES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Emergency management and disaster relief operations for the city are provided by Chatham County pursuant to a contract.
Cross reference— Mayor's emergency powers, § 2-1; fire prevention and protection, ch. 34; floods, ch. 38; law enforcement, ch. 46; traffic and vehicles, ch. 78.
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-2 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70; authority to adopt temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(19).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 26-1—26-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority to provide ambulance and emergency rescue services, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(3).

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 26-26—26-35. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT

Sec. 26-36. - Established; purpose.
(a)
An emergency medical service department is hereby established in and for the city, which shall consist of such ambulances and personnel as now exist or as may hereafter be purchased or enrolled. The emergency medical service department shall be composed of an emergency medical service coordinator and such emergency medical service personnel as the council may from time to time determine.
(b)
The purpose of the emergency medical service department will be to provide emergency medical services to the residents of the city and any other areas as determined by the council. All such services will be provided in accordance with the appropriate state rules and regulations.
(Ord. of 7-18-83(2), § 3-4001)
Sec. 26-37. - Emergency medical service coordinator.
(a)
The emergency medical service department will be supervised by an emergency medical service coordinator, who shall be appointed by the city administrator.
(b)
The duties of the emergency medical service coordinator will be to:
(1)
Maintain the schedule for all emergency medical service personnel;
(2)
Maintain the training records and training schedule;
(3)
Order and maintain inventories on all supplies and uniforms;
(4)
Ensure that all vehicles are properly maintained;
(5)
Generally supervise the emergency medical service; and
(6)
Perform any other duties as assigned by the city administrator.
(Ord. of 7-18-83(2), § 3-4002)
Sec. 26-38. - Rules and regulations.
The emergency medical service department is hereby empowered to draw up appropriate rules and regulations for conduct thereof and submit the rules and regulations through the city administrator to the council for approval. Such rules and regulations shall be distributed to all members of the emergency medical service department.
(Ord. of 7-18-83(2), § 3-4003)
Sec. 26-39. - Charges for service.
(a)
The emergency medical service department is authorized to charge for services rendered. The city administrator will be responsible for issuing all bills based on information supplied by the emergency medical service department.
(b)
The city administrator may, upon recommendation of the emergency medical service coordinator, write off bad debts.
(Ord. of 7-18-83(2), § 3-4004)
Sec. 26-40. - Compensation of volunteer members.
The emergency medical service department is authorized to pay stipends to the volunteer members of the department. The amount of the stipends will be determined from time to time by the council.
(Ord. of 7-18-83(2), § 3-4005)
Sec. 26-41. - Budget and finances.
The emergency medical service coordinator will submit an annual budget request to the city administrator each year. All expenditures made by the emergency medical service department shall be in accordance with established city ordinances and procedures.
(Ord. of 7-18-83(2), § 3-4006(a))
Secs. 26-42—26-49. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - REGISTRATION AND LICENSING OF BUILDING AND REPAIR SERVICES DURING A STATE OF EMERGENCY

Sec. 26-50. - Building contractor license required.
During any state of emergency and any subsequent recovery period, no person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall engage in, undertake or carry on any business in whole or in part within the city, consisting of or related to building, construction, repair, renovation or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto without having registered the name of the business with the governing authority of the city and having received a building contractors license to do business and paid fees as provided by this division.
(Ord. of 6-2-97(1), § 1)
Sec. 26-51. - Definitions.
As used in this division, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
Building contractor shall mean any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity engaged in, undertaking or carrying on any business consisting of or related to building construction, repair, renovation or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto.
Doing business means any business contractor shall be deemed to be "doing business" or engaged in business and thus subject to the requirements of this ordinance if he has an office, agency, project site or place of business located in the city, or when he operates or maintains a business, either temporary, periodically or otherwise, in the city expressly including but not limited to the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto located in the city regardless of the location of the principal office.
State of emergency means, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor unless extended by official action of the governing authority of the city.
(Ord. of 6-2-97(1), § 1)
Sec. 26-52. - Registration; license application; certificate.
During any state of emergency and any subsequent recovery period, all building contractors doing business or proposing to do business in the city shall register and apply for a building contractors license to do business. Applicants shall register and file applications with the city administrator or such other person designated by the city. An applicant for a building contractors license shall, under oath, provide the city with a statement describing the general nature of the business to be conducted and give true and correct information as may be called for on the registration form, application or certificate provided by the city.
(Ord. of 6-2-97(1), § 1)
Sec. 26-53. - License fees.
During any state of emergency and any subsequent recovery period, building contractor license fees are hereby fixed under the terms and conditions of this ordinance at $50.00 per annum. License fees shall be paid in full at the time of issuance of the license.
(Ord. of 6-2-97(1), § 1)
Sec. 26-54. - Penalties.
During any state of emergency and any subsequent recovery period, any building contractor required by this ordinance to pay a license fee and who engages in business without first registering and receiving a license as required by this ordinance shall be in violation of this ordinance. Violation of this ordinance, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day a building contractor does business in the city without a license shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 6-2-97(1), § 1)
Sec. 26-55. - Transferability.
Each license granted under this ordinance is granted to, and shall be accepted by, the licensee under the condition that the same is not transferable and after issuance no such license shall be transferred by the city or the licensee to anyone.
(Ord. of 6-2-97(1), § 1)
Sec. 26-56. - Display of license.
Each license issued hereunder shall be posted conspicuously by the licensee in the place of business of the licensee or shall be carried on his person or vehicle which is used in such business. Such license shall be exhibited to any authorized enforcement officer when so requested.
(Ord. of 6-2-97(1), § 1)
Sec. 26-57. - Revocation; suspension.
Each license granted under this division is a mere permit to engage in the business for which such license is granted while and only during such period such business is conducted in a lawful manner. The city hereby reserves the right to revoke or suspend any license which has been granted hereunder, if the licensee, or the licensee's agent or employee acting within the scope of his employment, violates this division or any other county, state or federal law. If after issuance of a license, the city desires to revoke such license, written notice thereof shall be given to the licensee, which notice shall specify the violation with which a licensee is charged and a date, time and place at which a hearing shall be held with regard to the violation. The licensee shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing, shall have the right to be represented by counsel, and shall have the right to introduce and submit evidence in opposition to such revocation.
(Ord. of 6-2-97(1), § 1)
Secs. 26-58—26-74. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - PROHIBITION OF OVERCHARGING FOR GOODS, MATERIALS, SERVICES AND HOUSING DURING A STATE OF EMERGENCY

Sec. 26-75. - Overcharging prohibited.
In order to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property, it shall be unlawful during the duration of a state of emergency or subsequent recovery period in which the city has been designated as a disaster area, for any person, firm, or corporation located or doing business in the city to overcharge for any goods, materials, services or housing sold within the city.
(Ord. of 6-2-97(2), § 1)
Sec. 26-76. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Overcharging means charging prices for goods, materials, services, or housing, which are substantially in excess of the customary charges or in applicable cases substantially in excess of the supplier's or provider's costs for such goods, materials, services or housing. The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the goods, materials, services, or housing was offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in costs to the supplier directly attributable to higher costs of materials, supplies, and labor costs resulting from the emergency.
State of emergency means, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), as a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor unless extended by official action of the governing authority of the city.
(Ord. of 6-2-97(2), § 1)
Sec. 26-77. - Penalties.
Violation of the provisions of this division upon conviction shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each sale shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 6-2-97(2), § 1)
Secs. 26-78—26-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EMERGENCY COST RECOVERY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2008-21, § 1, adopted Sept. 15, 2008, set out provisions intended for use as Art. III, §§ 26-50—26-53. For purposes of classification, and at the editor's discretion, these provisions have been included as Art. III, §§ 26-91—26-94.

Sec. 26-91. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
Accident, including natural disaster, means an unforeseen or unexpected happening or occurrence which of itself causes great harm or damage, or which creates the potential for great harm or damage to individuals and/or property, and which requires immediate and prudent securing and monitoring by the city, and/or agents of the city, to reduce the potential for such damage, but not including emergency incidents.
Dangerous or hazardous substances or materials means any substance (including gases or vapors) which if spilled, leaked, or otherwise released from its container, is dangerous or harmful to the environment or human or animal life, health, or safety, or otherwise constitutes a danger, threat or nuisance to the public health, safety or welfare, including, but not limited to, such substances as chemicals and gases, explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum based products, poisons, biologic agents, flammables, combustibles, hazardous wastes, or corrosives.
Emergency incident means a bomb threat, vehicle fire, an illegal fire, extrication from vehicles involved in accidents, damage to the city's utility infrastructure such as sewer/water lines, pump stations, manholes, and wells affecting public utility supply and service, and accident related clean up or any incident that threatens health and safety.
Emergency response means the providing, sending and/or utilization of public works, water/sewer personnel, police, fire and/or rescue services by the city at an emergency incident or at an incident involving release of a dangerous or hazardous substance or material, or at an accident requiring immediate response by the city and/or agents of the city.
Responsible party means any individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership, commercial entity, consortium, joint venture, government entity or any other legal entity responsible for an emergency incident or any other, tenant, occupant or party in control of real and/or personal property from which, onto which or related to which there is a public safety or fire emergency incident, and their heirs, estates, successors and assigns.
(Ord. No. 2008-21, § 1, 9-15-08)
Sec. 26-92. - Duty to remove and clean-up.
It shall be the duty of any person, firm, corporation, public or private utility, or any other entity directly or indirectly causing, contributing to, or allowing the leakage, spillage or any other release of dangerous or hazardous substances or materials, or owning or controlling property affected thereby or requiring the securing and monitoring of sites or locations of accidents and/or natural disasters, including downed power lines and electric service lines, ruptured gas mains, gas service conduits, water and sewer mains, occupancy leads, telephone lines, or cable television lines, to immediately secure, monitor, and clean up the area or location in such manner that the area or location involved is fully restored to the condition existing prior to such occurrence. The city shall have no duty to contain, clean-up or dispose of any release of hazardous substances or materials, or other materials, but in emergency situations either the fire chief, chief of police, public works director, or the director of the water and sewer department, or their respective designees, shall have the authority to take whatever action is reasonably necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the general public including securing and monitoring sites of accidents or providing for or arranging for the containment, removal, or clean-up of any hazardous substances or materials.
(Ord. No. 2008-21, § 1, 9-15-08)
Sec. 26-93. - Duty to pay for clean-up costs.
A responsible party shall be liable to the city and shall reimburse the city for all costs and expenses, including the costs incurred by the city or any agents the city engages, for the complete abatement, cleanup, restoration and/or securing of an area affected by an emergency incident, where either the responsible party approves such expenses or the clean-up work is necessary to mitigate the effects of an emergency incident threatening health and safety. If the responsible party is available at the scene of the emergency incident, an itemized list of estimated clean-up work to be performed by the city shall be presented to the responsible party for viewing and approval by the signing of a cost recovery authorization form. If the responsible party is not on the scene but is at an area remote from the work site, he may approve the city's performance of the clean-up work by being sent by facsimile transmission a cost recovery authorization form and returning such form to the city after signing same. If the responsible party cannot be located, is injured and unconscious, deceased or refuses to sign the cost recovery authorization form, the city shall document the existence of an emergency incident threatening health and safety by taking photographs before furnishing services to clear the hazard.
(Ord. No. 2008-21, § 1, 9-15-08)
Sec. 26-94. - Invoicing clean-up costs.
(a)
The city will invoice the responsible party for billable costs using established rate schedules. The following schedules are used in the invoice production:
(1)
Costs encumbered for heavy equipment and apparatus will be invoiced using the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) cost schedules.
(2)
Costs encumbered for personnel costs are invoiced using an established rate schedule. Hourly rates are established by position classification, job assignment and training certification levels.
(3)
Consumables or expendable items are invoiced at actual item replacement costs.
(4)
Equipment lost or damaged is invoiced at actual repair costs or if replacement is indicated, at actual cost of replacement minus depreciation.
(5)
Disposal costs are invoiced at bulk weight rates and deposited at Subtitle D "lined" landfills located throughout Chatham County or incinerated.
(b)
The city shall submit a bill for clean-up costs to the responsible party by first class mail or personal delivery. The bill shall require full payment within 30 days from date of billing. If remuneration is not received net 30 days, a second invoice shall be generated adding allowable interest for late payment and rebilled to the responsible party. If the invoice is not paid within 60 days of its initial submission, the city shall have the right to bring an action in the appropriate court to collect such costs. If the responsible party is the owner of real property affected or partially affected by the release of hazardous materials, or requiring emergency securement or monitoring, the city shall have the right to collect the costs of clean-up, restoration and/or of any emergency response in the same manner as provided for the levy and collection of real property taxes against said property.
(Ord. No. 2008-21, § 1, 9-15-08)
