Title 7 - Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs
Chapter 1.
General Provisions
CHAPTER 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Permission of director of parks and recreation for archery practice, § 11-1-24.

Sec. 7-1-1. - Rules and regulations.
The city manager, pursuant to section 2-3-2 of this Code, shall have the authority to establish reasonable rules and regulations covering the operation of the city's recreation and park facilities. This authority shall include the establishment of the hours said facilities shall be open for use by authorized persons. When the rules and regulations are posted or displayed on the facility involved, such rules and regulations shall have the force and effect of law and any person committing any action in violation thereof shall be deemed to have violated this section and shall be punished as provided by law (section 1-1-8 of this Code).
(1)
Use of grounds and facilities in general. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association or corporation using the city parks, ballfields, facilities and grounds to fail to clean up debris, extinguish all fires when fires are permitted (section 4-2-24), and leave the premises in as good an order and the facilities in as neat and sanitary condition as when they began use of facilities.
(2)
Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association or corporation using the city parks, ballfields, facilities or grounds to either perform or permit to be performed any of the following acts:
a.
Willfully mar, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, displace or remove any buildings, tables, benches, signs, notices, placards, permanent monuments, monuments, statues, boundary markers, structures, fixtures, equipment, facilities, park property or appurtenances thereof whatsoever, either real or personal.
b.
Damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any tree or plant or any part thereof.
c.
Bring in, dump, deposit or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, refuse, or other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in storm sewer, drains, waters or contiguous to any park, or left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be placed in the proper receptacles where these are provided, and where not provided all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park by the person(s) responsible for the presence of same, and properly disposed of elsewhere.
d.
Disturb the peace, or use any profane or obscene language.
e.
Endanger the safety of any person by any conduct or act.
f.
Take part in or abet the playing of any game involving thrown or otherwise propelled objects such as balls, stones, arrows, javelins or model airplanes, except in areas set apart for such forms of recreation. The playing of rough or potentially dangerous games such as football, basketball, handball and soccer is prohibited, except on fields, courts or areas provided thereof.
g.
Vend, sell, peddle or offer for sale any commodity or article within any park area or facility, unless authorized by the city or director or parks and recreation.
h.
Bring any dangerous animal into any park area; it shall be unlawful to permit any dog to be in any park unless such dog is on a leash not more than six (6) feet long. It shall be unlawful for any animal to be on the jogging track area.
i.
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or cause to be ridden any horse, mule or pony on any property in the park areas, except as provided by special permit when such activity(s) shall be a part of any approved special event.
j.
Drive or park any automobile or off-road vehicle, except on a street, driveway, or parking lot in any park; or to park or leave any such vehicle in any place other than one established for public parking.
k.
Set up tents, shacks or other temporary shelter for the purpose of overnight camping, nor shall any person leave any movable structure or special vehicle to be used, or that could be used for such purposes, such as [a] house trailer, camp trailer, wagon or the like in the park area after closing hours, unless authorized by the city.
l.
To tamper with, break into or enter any facility or park area that is secured by locks or padlocks.
m.
To have any motorized vehicle or bicycle on the jogging track or ballfields.
n.
To carry or use firearms in any park.
o.
Throw, discharge or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, or other body of water in or adjacent to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer or drain flowing into such waters, any substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or may result in the pollution of said waters.
p.
Build or attempt to build a fire, except in such areas and under such regulations as may be designated by the city. No person shall drop, throw or otherwise scatter lighted matches, burning cigarettes or cigars, tobacco paper or other inflammable material within any park area of any highway, road, or street abutting or contiguous thereto.
(Ord. No. 86-019, 10-6-86)
Sec. 7-1-2. - Nonresident fee.
The director of parks and recreation is authorized and directed to charge an annual and restricted fee as fixed and approved from time to time by the mayor and council from each non-resident of the city, who uses the recreational facilities of the city. Funds collected from this source shall be remitted promptly to the city treasury.
(Ord. No. 86-019, 10-6-86)
Sec. 7-1-3. - Reservation of facilities by groups.
(a)
(1)
Groups of fifteen (15) or more persons desiring to use any recreational facility, including but not limited to, picnic shelters, gymnasium, community buildings, or meeting rooms in the recreation center, shall make application for such use in the office of the director of parks and recreation at least ten (10) days in advance of the date of desired use. The director shall grant the application if it appears that the group, association or organization will not interfere with the general use of those facilities by members of the general public, except in accordance with the requirements of this section and applicable departmental regulations.
(2)
Such permits shall contain a fee as fixed from time to time by the mayor and council.
(b)
Picnic areas (conditional use). No person(s) shall use any portion of any picnic area(s) or any of the buildings or structures therein, for the purpose of holding picnics to the exclusion of other persons if there is space available, nor shall any person use such areas and facilities for an unreasonable time if the facilities are crowded, except in situations where the person(s), group, association or organization has met the requirements as listed in section 7-1-3(a).
(c)
Organized league play.
(1)
In recognition of the fact that the city's facilities may be more fully utilized by all citizens of the city if a non-profit organization or organizations maintain a continuing program of league play under the direction of the parks and recreation department, the director of parks and recreation may from time to time lease any ballfield to such organization(s) upon terms and conditions to be agreed upon by the mayor and council.
(2)
Any organized league requesting a lease agreement with the city shall apply for such at least 90 days prior to the beginning of such activity. Decisions on granting lease may and can be based on prior record in maintaining the park premises and the programs offered for the well being of all citizens.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association, corporation or organization to prevent any person(s) from using any park, or any of its facilities, or interfere with such unless in compliance with this chapter and with the rules applicable to such use.
(Ord. No. 86-019, 10-6-86)
Sec. 7-1-4. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 16-17, § 1, adopted Oct. 17, 2016, repealed § 7-1-4, which pertained to alcohol use. For prior history, see Ordinance Disposition Table.
Sec. 7-1-5. - Hours of operation.
(a)
The park(s) shall be open to the public during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 10:30 p.m.; and it shall be unlawful for any person or persons other than city personnel conducting city business therein to come into or be present in such park(s) during any other hours. For tournament play an exception shall be allowed such that activity may continue until 11:30 p.m. provided approval has been received from the director of parks and recreation. All field lights shall be extinguished by 10:30 p.m. (except for allowable tournament play) and no field lights may be used on Sunday.
(b)
[The] outdoor jogging track shall be open daily to the public twenty-four (24) hours.
(c)
[The] recreation center shall be open to the public during the following hours of operation: administrative offices 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Seasonal operating hours shall be duly posted in an area accessible to the public.
(Ord. No. 86-019, 10-6-86)
Sec. 7-1-6. - Advertising and sponsorship.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, [or] corporation to paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any sign, placard, advertisement or inscription whatever, nor shall any person erect or cause to be erected any sign whatever on any public lands, highways, or roads adjacent to a park, except that these provisions shall not apply to any team sponsorship advertising, properly displayed on recreational field fences.
(b)
Advertising permitted in (a) above must be maintained in a secure manner and no signs, placards, etc. shall exceed an area greater than nine (9) square feet (three (3) feet by three (3) feet typical).
(c)
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit or impede the posting of any notice by any government official acting in the authorized capacity of his office.
(Ord. No. 86-019, 10-6-86)
