ARTICLE J. - FENCES AND OTHER ENCLOSURES

Sec. 8-2-91. - Required materials.
All fences or enclosures of any type shall be constructed of decorative or conventional fence material only, such material being in the nature of chain link, wood, privacy, split rails or other materials such as brick.
(Ord. No. 89-010, 5-15-89)
Sec. 8-2-92. - Nonfence materials prohibited.
It shall be unlawful to erect a fence or other enclosure or to repair an existing fence or other enclosure with nonfence materials. Nonfence materials specifically include sheet metal, plywood and any other materials not specifically manufactured for fence construction.
(Ord. No. 89-010, 5-15-89)
Sec. 8-2-93. - Location restrictions.
In no event may a fence be erected that will impair vision at any street intersection, nor shall any fence be erected except on or within the property line of the owner, and in no event upon any right-of-way of any public road.
(Ord. No. 89-010, 5-15-89)
Sec. 8-2-94. - Penalties.
Failure to comply with the terms and provisions of this article shall be deemed a violation and shall be punished, upon conviction, as provided by Section 1-1-8 of this Code. Each day's continuance of a violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 89-010, 5-15-89)
Sec. 8-2-95. - Screening of junk yards.
(a)
For the purposes of this section, the following terms shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
(1)
Automobile grave yard means an establishment which is maintained or used for storing, buying or selling wrecked, scrapped, ruined or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts.
(2)
Junk means old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber, debris or waste; junked, dismantled, or wrecked automobiles or parts thereof; or iron, steel or other old scrap, ferrous or nonferrous material.
(3)
Junk yard means any establishment which is maintained or used for storing, buying or selling junk or for an automobile graveyard; and the term shall include garbage dumps; sanitary landfills and scrap processor establishments.
(4)
Scrap processor means any person, firm or corporation engaged only in the business of buying scrap iron and metals, including but not limited to old automobiles, for the specific purpose of processing into raw material for remelting purposes only, and whose principal product is ferrous and nonferrous scrap for shipment to steel mills, foundries, smelters and refineries, and who maintains an established place of business in this state and has facilities and machinery designed for such processing.
(b)
Certain uses, such as junk yards, require the storage of equipment, vehicles or materials for prolonged periods of time and can present unsightly views or health hazards. To preclude this from occurring, the owners such properties shall completely enclose such operations by a fence which completely obscures views of the junk yard from adjacent sidewalks, streets and residential areas. Such fence shall be built to a height greater than that of the height of the highest piece of equipment or vehicle stored on the property; provided that no fence shall be less than eight (8) feet nor more than twenty (20) feet in height when measured from the crown of the adjacent street. Such fences shall be constructed of solid materials. Construction of cyclone fencing which utilizes metal inserts as screening shall be prohibited. Fencing along street frontages shall be located on private property. Fencing installed near the intersections of two (2) or more public streets shall be installed in such a manner so as not to impair visibility of traffic approaching the intersection of said streets.
(c)
Uses existing on the date of adoption of the ordinance from which this section was derived which would require fencing under terms of the ordinance shall have six (6) months from the date of adoption of the ordinance to come into compliance herewith.
(Ord. No. 96-001, § 1, 8-2-95)
Secs. 8-2-96—8-2-100. - Reserved.
