Title 12 - Technology Services
Chapter 1.
Department of Technology Services
CHAPTER 1. - DEPARTMENT OF TECHNOLOGY SERVICES

Sec. 12-1-1. - Department established; purpose; director.
(a)
There is hereby established a department of technology services for the purpose of planning and managing the informational systems and data communications equipment utilized by the city.
(b)
The department of technology services shall be composed of a director who shall oversee said department and such other office and employees as are from time to time deemed necessary by the mayor and council. The director of the department of technology services shall be nominated by the city manager with confirmation of such appointment by the governing body in accordance with section 3.14 of the charter of the city. The director shall report to the city manager.
(Ord. No. 17-11, § 1, 3-20-2017)
Sec. 12-1-2. - Duties and responsibilities of the director and department; establishment of rules and regulations.
(a)
Under the direct supervision of the city manager and in cooperation with all affected department directors, the director of technology services shall be responsible for the planning and management of the information systems and data communications equipment utilized by departments, officials, employees and agents of the city. These responsibilities shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
Overseeing the development of the city-wide information and technology strategy;
(2)
Coordinating, with the consent of affected department directors or their designees, all telephony, voice, data, and communications equipment used by and between all departments, officials, employees and agents of the city;
(3)
Overseeing and maintaining network security of the city's informational systems and data communications equipment;
(4)
Overseeing network and server administration;
(5)
Overseeing application system administration; and
(6)
Providing end-user support to the various departments, officials, employees and agents of the city.
(b)
The director of the department of technology services shall, in cooperation with all affected department directors, establish such rules and regulations as shall from time to time become necessary to the performance and the duties of the department of technology services pursuant to this chapter. The director shall recommend to the city manager, after consultation with and the consent of the affected department directors, for submission to and approval by the governing body any change which he deems desirable in the provisions of this chapter, other provisions of the Code of Ordinances or resolutions of the city affecting the department of technology services.
(Ord. No. 17-11, § 2, 3-20-2017)
Sec. 12-1-3. - Assignment of additional duties.
In addition the duties as provided in section 12-1-2, the department of technology services shall perform any and all other duties which may be assigned to it by the city manager, in writing or otherwise, and the department shall have all power and authority necessary to carry out such additional assigned duties.
(Ord. No. 17-11, § 3, 3-20-2017)
