Title 10 - Motor Vehicles and Traffic
Chapter 1.
General Provisions
Chapter 2.
Regulation of Traffic
Chapter 3.
Parking and Loading
Chapter 4.
Enforcement
CHAPTER 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 10-1-1. - Uniform rules of the road adopted.
Pursuant to Chapter 6 of Title 40 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, Code Sections 40-6-372 through 40-6-376, Code Sections 40-6-1 to 40-6-395 of that chapter known as the Uniform Rules of the Road and the definitions contained in Code Section 40-1-1 are adopted as and for the traffic regulation of the city with like effect as if recited herein.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of the ordinance codified in this section shall be punished by fine or imprisonment, or both, as provided elsewhere in this Code.
(Ord. No. 91-008, 5-20-91)
Sec. 10-1-2. - City traffic engineer; office created; general duties.
The chief of police shall serve as the city traffic engineer until such time as the governing authority specifically otherwise designates by ordinance or resolution. It shall be the general duty of the city traffic engineer to determine the installation and proper timing and maintenance of traffic-control devices, to conduct engineering investigation of traffic conditions, and to cooperate with other city officials in the development of ways and means to improve traffic conditions, and to carry out the additional powers and duties imposed by ordinance and resolution of the city.
Sec. 10-1-3. - Same; specific duties.
The traffic engineer, in addition to his other duties, shall:
(1)
Lend technical assistance to those engaging or desiring to engage in the business of off-street parking.
(2)
Make studies, as necessary, of the parking or traffic problems in any section of the city and report his recommendations to the city manager and the governing authority.
(3)
Examine all applications for permits to operate new off-street parking facilities or to expand existing facilities in the city and report his recommendations to the city manager and to the governing authority.
(4)
Make a continuous and systematic study of traffic and parking conditions in the city with the purpose of recommending any and all changes that would help traffic flow and parking within the city. Such recommendations shall be made periodically to the city manager and the governing authority.
(5)
Make any and all studies and give reports thereon to the city manager and the governing authority concerning the use of streets, alleys and public property insofar as the same relate to transportation, parking and use by emergency and official vehicles.
(6)
Cooperate with the governing authorities of other governmental units endeavoring to promote more efficient use of the streets and parking facilities of the city in every manner whatsoever.
(7)
Perform such other duties as may be designated by the city manager or the governing authority.
(Code 1959, § 20-35)
Sec. 10-1-4. - Emergency and experimental regulations.
(a)
The chief of police, by and with the approval of the city manager is hereby empowered to make regulations necessary to make effective the provisions of this title and other traffic ordinances of this city and to make and enforce temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect for more than 90 days.
(b)
The city traffic engineer may test traffic-control devices under actual conditions of traffic.
(Code 1959, § 20-44)
Sec. 10-1-5. - Appeal from regulations, rule or order of police chief.
Any traffic regulation, rule or order promulgated under section 10-1-4 by the chief of police or upon his authority, may be appealed by any person affected to the governing body. Said appeal shall be filed with the city clerk and addressed to the governing authority, in writing, and shall state the facts, and set forth the reasons for making the appeal. The governing body shall thereupon investigate any such appeal, and thereafter grant a hearing on the issues formed by the appeal. The action taken by the governing authority shall be final and binding upon the chief of police.
Cross reference— Traffic division, § 4-1-2 et seq.; traffic violations bureau, § 2-5-21 et seq.
Sec. 10-1-6. - Permits for parades and processions.
No procession (except funerals) or parade shall occupy, march or proceed along any street, except in accordance with the following procedure:
(1)
All requests for parades or processions (except funerals) must be filed two (2) weeks in advance with the police department.
(2)
All requests must contain date of parade or procession, time to start parade or procession, place of beginning and place of ending of the parade or procession. The request must state route to be taken. Each request must state the reason or purpose for holding the parade or procession.
(3)
All parades and processions must be escorted when possible by police escort.
(4)
All permits for parades or processions, except funerals, must be reviewed by the chief of police and approved by the city manager.
Sec. 10-1-7. - Funeral processions; route of procession.
All funeral processions will take the most direct feasible route to the church and to the cemetery or place of burial.
(Code 1959, § 20-10(c))
Sec. 10-1-8. - Same; right-of-way for vehicles.
(a)
Vehicles of a funeral procession shall have the right-of-way over all vehicles, except authorized emergency vehicles, provided each shall identify itself by activating regular headlights, shall keep in close formation, and shall display such identifying markings or devices as directed as required by the city.
(b)
When the lead vehicle in a funeral procession has entered an intersection on a green light, all other cars in the procession may proceed through the intersection, even though such signal may change to red.
Sec. 10-1-9. - Driving through funeral or other procession.
No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in section 10-1-8.
(Code 1959, § 20-72)
Sec. 10-1-10. - Drivers in a procession.
Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the right-hand edge of the street or roadway as practicable and shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practicable and safe.
(Code 1959, § 20-73)
Sec. 10-1-11. - Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted.
(a)
No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coasters, toy vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing the street on a crosswalk and when so coasting such person shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
(b)
There shall be no such skating or riding on the sidewalks except under such terms and conditions as expressly allowed by the governmental authority by resolution or ordinance.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for persons so skating or riding to gather in crowds, or to create noise or be guilty of any disorderly conduct, or to take hold of or hang on to any automobile or other vehicle, or in any way to interfere with the natural progress of automobiles or other vehicles along and in the streets of the city, or for two (2) or more persons to join hands while skating on the sidewalk. Any persons so skating or riding shall give the right-of-way to, and no way interfere with, persons walking on the sidewalks.
Sec. 10-1-12. - Title not to interfere with rights of owners of real property with reference thereto.
Nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent the owner of real property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of the owner, and not as matter of right, from prohibiting such use, or from requiring other or different or additional conditions than those specified herein, or otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to such owner.
(Code 1959, § 20-28)
Sec. 10-1-13. - Obstruction of view and use of streets by trees and shrubs; notice.
(a)
No person owning, occupying or in anywise controlling property in the city shall permit any tree, bush or shrub on the property to project over any street, sidewalk or right-of-way of the city, so as to obstruct or interfere with the view and use of persons walking or riding in a vehicle on the street or sidewalk or of other persons or vehicles approaching from cross or intersecting streets.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying or in anywise controlling property in the city to permit shrubbery or other vegetation to grow or to accumulate to a height of more than three (3) feet within seven (7) feet of the curb or any public street, alley or right-of-way when, in the opinion of the chief of police or the mayor and council, the same shall constitute a menace or a hazard to traffic.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether the owner, tenant, agent or person controlling property in the city to fail to remove or trim any tree, bush or other obstruction from the streets or sidewalks of the city in violation of this section after 10 days' notice from the city to do so.
Sec. 10-1-14. - Bicycles; effect of regulations.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this title.
(b)
The parent of any child and the guardian of the person of any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this title.
(c)
These regulations to bicycles shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any street or upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(Code 1959, § 20-163)
Sec. 10-1-15. - Same; parking.
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or against a building or at a curb, in such manner as to afford the least obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code 1959, § 20-177)
Sec. 10-1-16. - Same; riding on sidewalks.
(a)
No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business district, or the central traffic district.
(b)
No person 13 or more years of age shall ride a bicycle upon any sidewalk in any district.
(c)
Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
(Code 1959, § 20-178)
Sec. 10-1-17. - Same; acrobatic or fancy riding on streets.
No rider of any bicycle shall remove both hands from the handle bars, or feet from the pedal, or practice any acrobatic or fancy riding on any street; nor shall any person operating a bicycle upon a street participate in any race of speed or endurance in a contest with any other bicycle or vehicle, except where permitted in closely supervised activities conducted by the parks and recreation department.
CHAPTER 2. - REGULATION OF TRAFFIC
ARTICLE A. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 10-2-1. - Motor vehicle colliding with object.
No driver of any vehicle shall operate the vehicle in such manner so as to collide with any object legally placed upon or adjacent to any street or highway.
(Code 1959, § 20-79)
Sec. 10-2-2. - Vehicle leaving street or roadway.
No driver of any vehicle shall operate same in such a manner so as to enter or leave any street or highway except at an intersection or at an alley or private drive.
(Code 1959, § 20-80)
Sec. 10-2-3. - Motor vehicle involved in a collision with parked vehicle.
No driver of any vehicle shall operate the vehicle in such a manner so as to collide with any vehicle which is legally parked in the city.
Sec. 10-2-4. - Speed restrictions.
After having conducted engineering and traffic investigations, the results of which indicate a need for reasonable and safe exceptions to the vehicle speed limits set forth in the Uniform Rules of the Road, the city traffic engineer, upon approval by ordinance of the mayor and council, is authorized to designate and maintain speed zones on city streets with appropriate traffic control signs, markings and devices. A current schedule of all speed zones shall be maintained by the traffic engineer and shall be available for public inspection in the police department and the office of the city clerk.
Sec. 10-2-5. - Speed signs.
The traffic engineer shall erect or cause to be erected throughout the city signs indicating the maximum speed limit and/or such other information as will be informative to drivers of motor vehicles as pertains to traffic control regulations at said location or in the city.
(Code 1959, § 20-83)
Sec. 10-2-6. - Maximum speed in parks and school zones.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle in parks in excess of twenty-five (25) miles per hour nor on streets adjoining school property during school days in excess of twenty-five (25) miles per hour.
Sec. 10-2-7. - Slowly moving vehicles.
Slowly moving or heavily laden vehicles shall not be driven upon the streets or highways abreast, but one must follow behind the other and keep as near the right-hand curb as possible.
Sec. 10-2-8. - Driving past men working on streets and roadways.
The maximum rate of speed shall be fifteen (15) miles per hour when approaching or driving past men working in the street or roadway, who are city employees, public utility employees, or those granted permission of the city, provided such workmen have erected a sign reading: "Slow—Men Working" and such sign is in accordance with the specifications of the city traffic engineer.
(Code 1959, § 20-87)
Sec. 10-2-9. - Regulation of speed by traffic signals.
The city traffic engineer is authorized to regulate the timing of traffic signals so as to permit the movement of traffic in an orderly and safe manner at speeds slightly at variance from the speeds otherwise applicable within the district or at intersections and shall erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof.
(Code 1959, § 20-88)
Sec. 10-2-10. - Authority to place restricted turn signs.
After having received the results of engineering and traffic investigations which indicate a need for restricted turns at certain intersections, the mayor and council shall designate, by ordinance, those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left, or U turn. Upon such designation the city traffic engineer shall place proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when such turns are permitted.
Sec. 10-2-11. - Authority to place and duty to obey turning markers.
(a)
The city traffic engineer is authorized to place markers, buttons, and signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections, and such course to be traveled as so indicated shall conform to this title or other law or ordinance.
(b)
When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such indications.
Sec. 10-2-12. - Limitations on turning around.
The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any street in a business district, or upon any street between intersections. Such turns may be made outside of a business district at intersections not controlled by a traffic signal.
(Code 1959, § 20-98)
Sec. 10-2-13. - Authority to install traffic-control devices.
The city traffic engineer shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic-control signs, signals and devices when and as required under this chapter and other traffic ordinances of the city to make effective the provisions of this title and such ordinances. He may cause to be placed and maintained such additional traffic-control devices as he shall deem necessary to regulate traffic under this title and other traffic ordinances of the city or under state law, or to guide or warn traffic.
(Code 1959, § 20-99)
Sec. 10-2-14. - Designation of crosswalks, safety zones, and traffic lanes.
The city traffic engineer is hereby authorized:
(1)
To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in his opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and at such other places as he may deem necessary. He shall make proper studies of all existing crosswalks not at roadway intersections, and shall abolish those which he deems unnecessary.
(2)
To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places as he may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(3)
To make lanes for traffic on street pavements at such places as he may deem advisable, consistent with this title and other traffic ordinances of the city.
(Code 1959, § 20-100)
Sec. 10-2-15. - Type of traffic-control devices.
All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform generally to specifications set out in the manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices adopted by the state department of transportation; however, any and all signs and signals placed pursuant to this or other ordinance shall be official, and shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout the city. All traffic-control devices so erected shall be official traffic-control devices.
(Code 1959, § 20-101)
Sec. 10-2-16. - Location and legibility of required signs.
No provision of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged violation an official sign is not so located and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(Code 1959, § 20-107)
Sec. 10-2-17. - Through streets; designated.
The governing body may by ordinance or resolution specifically designate certain streets or parts of streets as through streets.
(Code 1959, § 20-152)
Sec. 10-2-18. - Same; authority to erect stop signs.
Whenever this title or any ordinance of the city designates and describes a through street it shall be the duty of the city traffic engineer to place and maintain a stop sign or yield-right-of-way sign on each and every intersection of such through street or intersection on that portion thereof described and designated as such by this title or any ordinance of the city.
(Code 1959, § 20-153)
Sec. 10-2-19. - Erection of stop signs and yield right-of-way signs at other than through street intersections.
After having conducted engineering and traffic investigations, the results of which indicate particular hazards at certain intersections, the city traffic engineer shall report such results to the mayor and council. The mayor and council shall determine and designate intersections where particular hazards exist upon streets other than those designated by this title or any other ordinance of the city as through streets, and shall direct the city traffic engineer to place at such determined and designated hazardous intersections at one (1) or more entrances to any such intersection either a stop sign or yield-right-of-way sign.
Sec. 10-2-20. - Authority to sign one-way streets and alleys.
Whenever this title or any ordinance of the city designates any one-way street or alley the city traffic engineer shall place and maintain signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Code 1959, § 20-26)
Sec. 10-2-21. - Vehicles and employees of department of public works to have right-of-way on streets.
All employees and vehicles of the department of public works when engaged or used in performance of the services rendered by such department, shall have the right-of-way in the use of the streets, and are hereby given permission to use any part thereof in the operation of such vehicles in cleaning up and washing the streets of the city.
(Code 1959, § 20-25)
Sec. 10-2-22. - Unlawful riding.
No persons shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(Code 1959, § 20-64)
Sec. 10-2-23. - Shareable dockless mobility devices.
(a)
Purpose. The purpose of this section is to prohibit shareable dockless mobility devices from being placed in the public right-of-way or on public property, operated in the public right-of-way or on public property, or offered for use anywhere in Forest Park.
(b)
Definitions. For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section.
(1)
Shareable dockless mobility device means any dockless wheeled device, whether it be human-powered, electric, or otherwise motorized, that permits an individual to move or be moved freely, including, but not limited to, a bicycle, scooter, or skateboard; is accessed via an on-demand portal, whether a smartphone application, membership card, or similar method; is operated by a private entity that owns, manages, and maintains devices for shared use by members of the public; and is available to members of the public in unstaffed, self-service locations.
(2)
Dockless means that the device does not require the individual user to return and lock the device to an authorized fixed station once the user has completed their use of the device.
(c)
General requirements. It is unlawful to park, leave standing, leave lying, abandon, or otherwise place a shareable dockless mobility device in a public right-of-way or on public property anywhere within Forest Park. It is unlawful to operate a shareable dockless mobility device in a public right-of-way or on public property anywhere within Forest Park. It is unlawful to provide or offer for use a shareable dockless mobility device anywhere within Forest Park.
(d)
Notice. Notice shall be mailed by certified mail to the registered agents of any and all companies currently operating shareable dockless mobility devices within Forest Park upon the adoption of this section. Said companies shall be given ten (10) days to remove all shareable dockless mobility devices, after which, any such devices found in the public right-of-way or on public property shall be in violation of this section.
(e)
Violations; impoundment. Violations of this section shall be punishable as provided for in section 1-1-8 of this Code. Police officers, parking enforcement officers, code enforcement officers, those city officials otherwise designated by the city manager, and any party contracted by the Forest Park to specifically impound shareable dockless mobility devices are authorized to impound any shareable dockless mobility device that has been offered for use, placed in a public right-of-way or on public property, or operated in a public right-of-way or on public property in violation of this section. The impoundment shall be subject to an initial impound fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) and a daily storage and administration fee, as applicable, of five dollars ($5.00).
(1)
Once a shareable dockless mobility device has been impounded as provided for in subsection (e), Forest Park or a designated officer shall make a good-faith attempt to determine the name and address of the owner of such device by serial number, vehicle identification number (VIN), or such other means as are reasonably ascertainable through inspection of the exterior of such device. In those cases where the name and address of the owner of the subject vehicle are determined, written notice shall be sent to said owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service acknowledged by signature of the registered owner or other responsible party. Notice by certified mail as described herein shall be deemed given as of the postmark date. The written notice required by this section shall contain the following:
a.
A description of the subject vehicle, including serial numbers, vehicle identification number, or other identifying information;
b.
The name and address of the owner of such vehicle;
c.
The dates and descriptions of the parking violations that establish the grounds for impoundment, the unpaid amounts of the civil penalties for each violation, and the process by which the device(s) may be reclaimed. A copy of each parking ticket or other document providing the required information attached to the notice shall be sufficient to satisfy this requirement. Where multiple devices owned by the same company are impounded on a single day, a single notice listing all impounded devices is sufficient;
d.
A date and time at least seven (7) days from the postmark date of the notice in which the registered owner or other responsible party may appear in Forest Park Municipal Court to demand a bench trial to contest the impoundment.
(2)
Vehicles towed and impounded under subsection (e) may be released from such impoundment only upon payment in full of all impound and storage fees accrued. After paying such fees, a registered owner or other responsible person may contest the validity of the towing and impoundment of his or her vehicle by submitting in writing a request for reimbursement of towing and impoundment fees to the city manager on a form available from the Clerk of the Forest Park Municipal Court. Such notice shall either be filed in person at the office of the Clerk of Forest Park Municipal Court, or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, in either case no later than thirty (30) days following the release from impoundment of his or her vehicle. Only requests for reimbursement of impoundment fees meeting the requirements of this section shall be adjudicated by the city manager or the city manager's designee. If the city manager finds that the towing and impoundment was not authorized or that the provisions of this Code were not followed, he or she shall issue an order for reimbursement. Such reimbursement shall be limited to the fees actually paid for release of the subject vehicle from impoundment, plus certified mailing fees, if any.
(3)
Shareable dockless mobility devices that are not reclaimed within one hundred twenty (120) days of impound pursuant to the procedures outlined in subparagraph (2) shall be deemed at that time to be abandoned and discarded by the owner thereof and shall thereafter be disposed of pursuant to written policies established by the city manager.
( Ord. No. 19-07, § 1 (Exh. A), 8-5-2019 )
Secs. 10-2-24—10-2-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE B. - TRUCK ROUTES AND VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS

Sec. 10-2-31. - Motor trucks or trailers prohibited from traversing certain areas during designated hours.
It shall be unlawful for any motor truck or motor drawn trailer to traverse any street or part of the area of the city during periods hereinafter specifically designated by the governing body by resolution or ordinance. Whenever said streets or areas are designated, nothing in this section shall prevent any truck, when not accompanied by a trailer, from traversing any of the streets or areas solely for the purpose of making delivery or the purpose of picking up or receiving goods, wares or merchandise for transportation; but this shall not include permission for trailers to enter, park or stand in such area for any purpose whatsoever.
(Code 1959, § 20-13)
Sec. 10-2-32. - Truck routes; certain vehicles required to use certain streets; exceptions.
All motor vehicles having a gross weight in excess of thirty-six thousand (36,000) pounds including the load thereon, or having an overall length in excess of thirty (30) feet, except vehicles designed to carry passengers, are prohibited from using any street within the city except those authorized by ordinance and designated as truck routes except:
(1)
When the terminal, parking lot, repair garage or headquarters of the restricted motor vehicle is not on a designated truck route, ingress to and egress from such places shall be made by the most direct route available between the terminal, parking lot, repair garage or headquarters and nearest designated truck route.
(2)
When a delivery or pickup is to be made at a location which is not on a designated truck route (to be set forth by the governing authority by ordinance or resolution) ingress to and egress from such location shall be made by the most direct route available between such location and nearest truck route.
(3)
When a delivery or pickup is to be made within certain areas of the city, to be specifically designated by the governing authority by ordinance or resolution, by a truck tractor, road tractor, combination truck tractor, semi-trailer or combination road tractor-trailer, same shall be done at times and under conditions specified by the governing authority.
(Code 1959, § 20-15)
Sec. 10-2-33. - Same; drivers of vehicles to possess certain information when off designated routes.
Any person driving or in charge or control of any of the restricted vehicles referred to in the preceding section when upon streets or in areas other than those specifically designated by the governing authority as truck routes, shall be prepared to present for the inspection of police officers his log book, weight slips, delivery slips, or other written evidence of his destination and point of origin to justify the presence of the restricted vehicle on a street or in an area other than a designated truck route.
(Code 1959, § 20-16)
Sec. 10-2-34. - Same; temporary routes.
If any designated truck route, or portion thereof, shall be for any reason out of use, the driver of any restricted vehicle shall use such temporary truck route as may be designated by the governing authority.
(Code 1959, § 20-17)
Sec. 10-2-35. - Limitation as to weight of vehicles.
The governing authority shall have the right to proclaim by ordinance or resolution the maximum weight of any vehicle, including tractors and trailers which may proceed upon certain designated streets or areas of the city.
(Code 1959, § 20-18)
CHAPTER 3. - PARKING AND LOADING
ARTICLE A. - PARKING

Sec. 10-3-1. - Prohibition of or restrictions on parking or stopping.
When traffic and engineering surveys indicate that stopping or parking may impede the free flow of traffic on any particular street, the city traffic engineer shall report such matter to the mayor and council, who may, by ordinance, prohibit or restrict the parking or standing of vehicles on such street or a portion of such street at all times or between certain hours.
Sec. 10-3-2. - Parking prohibited during certain hours.
When prohibited by this title or other ordinance, no person shall park a vehicle during the hours prohibited at places so indicated by official signs.
Sec. 10-3-3. - Stopping prohibited during certain hours.
When prohibited by this title or other ordinance, no person shall stop a vehicle during the hours prohibited at places so indicated by official sign.
Sec. 10-3-4. - Parking signs required.
When by this title or other ordinance any parking time limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated streets it shall be the duty of the city traffic engineer to erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof and no such regulations shall be effective unless such signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense. At least one (1) sign shall be erected in each block on each side of the street where parking is either prohibited or restricted.
Sec. 10-3-5. - Parking for certain purposes prohibited.
No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for:
(1)
Displaying such vehicle for sale;
(2)
Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs necessitated by sudden emergency; in such emergency such vehicles shall be moved or towed away with all due haste; or
(3)
For displaying advertising.
(Code 1959, § 20-117)
Sec. 10-3-6. - Parking adjacent to schools.
(a)
Upon approval by ordinance of the mayor and council, the city traffic engineer shall erect signs indicating no parking upon that side of any street adjacent to any school property when such parking would interfere with traffic or create a hazardous situation.
(b)
When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon that side of a street adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.
Sec. 10-3-7. - Parking prohibited on narrow streets.
(a)
Upon approval by ordinance of the mayor and council, the city traffic engineer shall erect signs indicating no parking upon any street when the width of the roadway does not exceed twenty (20) feet, or upon one (1) side of a street as indicated by such signs when the width of the roadway does not exceed thirty (30) feet.
(b)
When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow streets as authorized herein, no person shall park upon any such street in violation of any such sign.
Sec. 10-3-8. - Standing or parking on one-way streets.
Upon approval by ordinance of the mayor and council, the city traffic engineer shall erect signs upon the left-hand side of any one-way street to prohibit the standing or parking of vehicle, and when such signs are in place, no person shall stand or park a vehicle upon such left-hand side in violation of any such sign.
Sec. 10-3-9. - Standing or parking on one-way roadways.
In the event a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and traffic is restricted to one (1) direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or park a vehicle upon the left-side of such one-way roadway unless signs are erected to permit such standing or parking. The city traffic engineer shall conduct engineering and traffic investigations to determine when standing or parking may be permitted upon the left-hand side of any such one-way roadway and, upon approval by ordinance of the mayor and council, shall erect signs giving notice thereof.
Sec. 10-3-10. - Stopping, standing or parking near hazardous or congested places.
(a)
When engineering and traffic investigations indicate the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition or would cause unusual delay to traffic, the mayor and council may, by ordinance, determine and designate places in which the parking or stopping of vehicles is prohibited.
(b)
When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as authorized herein no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any such designated place.
Sec. 10-3-11. - Maximum time for parking of trucks.
No person shall park or stand any truck or other freight carrying vehicles in excess of one-half (½) ton capacity upon any public street or highway for a period longer than one (1) hour at any time during the day or night unless authorized by the chief of police or his designated representative.
Sec. 10-3-12. - Maximum width and height of vehicles without driver.
No person shall stop or stand any truck or bus with a body more than eight (8) feet wide or ten (10) feet high on any street or public place without the driver or chauffeur being actually present and in charge thereof.
(Code 1959, § 20-123(c))
Sec. 10-3-13. - City hall parking lot.
No person shall park in the city hall parking lots, except those having official business with the city and only in such places therein and for such time as designated by markings placed therein.
Sec. 10-3-14. - Public off-street parking facilities; permit required; application.
Before any lot, building or parking garage may be used for off-street public parking, or before any existing facility may be expanded, the owner of the lot, building or parking garage or the operator of the facility must first obtain from the city manager a permit for such use. The application for such a permit shall be filed with the city manager and shall contain the following information:
(1)
The address and location of the lot or building involved;
(2)
The capacity of the proposed facility;
(3)
The proposed location of entrances and exits to the facility;
(4)
The capacity and location of the reservoir space to be used for the receiving and temporary storage of incoming vehicles;
(5)
The proposed parking plan showing the size and location of the parking stalls and the aisles to serve them;
(6)
The location, width and general design of ramps or elevator to be used inside of structures; and
(7)
Any other information required to enable the governing authority to make a fair and complete appraisal of the operation of the proposed parking facility.
Sec. 10-3-15. - Same; investigation of applications for permit.
Upon receipt of any application for a permit required by the preceding section, the city manager shall request the city traffic engineer to make a thorough and complete investigation and within thirty (30) days report thereon to the city manager and governing authority on such factors as:
(1)
The size of the proposed facility and the vehicular capacity of streets to be used for ingress and egress;
(2)
The physical arrangements provided for ingress and egress;
(3)
The reservoir space for incoming and outgoing vehicles;
(4)
The effects, if any, of any plan for traffic improvement (such as the expressway program, or major street plan) on the flow or the pattern of traffic adjacent to the affected streets; and
(5)
The financial responsibility of the applicant.
Secs. 10-3-16—10-3-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE B. - LOADING AND UNLOADING

Sec. 10-3-31. - Permit for loading or unloading at an angle to the curb.
The city traffic engineer is authorized to issue special permits to permit the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such permits. Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the privilege as therein stated and authorized herein, and it shall be unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate any of the special terms or conditions of any such permit.
(Code 1959, § 20-111)
Sec. 10-3-32. - Designation of curb loading zones.
Upon approval by ordinance of the mayor and council, the city traffic engineer shall designate passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during which the provisions of this section are applicable.
Sec. 10-3-33. - Standing in passenger curb loading zone.
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours when the regulations applicable to such curb loading zone are effective.
(Code 1959, § 20-125)
Sec. 10-3-34. - Standing in freight curb loading zone.
(a)
No person shall stop, stand or park a truck for any purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect; nor stop, stand or park any other vehicle for such unloading or loading of materials.
(b)
The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which is waiting to enter or about to enter such zone.
(Code 1959, § 20-126)
Sec. 10-3-35. - Designation of public carrier stands.
The city traffic engineer is hereby authorized to create and abolish open taxicab stands subject, however, to approval of the mayor and council and to the applicable provisions of the zoning ordinance of the city. The city traffic engineer shall represent the city in determining the location of bus stops and stands for other passenger common carrier motor vehicles on such public streets, in such places and in such number as he shall determine to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public, subject to final approval of the mayor and council, and every such stop, taxicab stand, or other stand shall be designated by appropriate signs.
Sec. 10-3-36. - Parking of buses and taxicabs regulated.
The driver of a bus or taxicab shall not park upon any street in any business district at any place other than at a bus stop, or taxicab stand, respectively, except that this provision shall not prevent the driver of any such vehicle from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers, and except for making emergency repairs. The provisions of this section shall not apply to common carriers stopping at regular designated passing or layover locations.
(Code 1959, § 20-128)
Sec. 10-3-37. - Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands.
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or stand has been officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter such zone.
(Code 1959, § 20-129)
Sec. 10-3-38. - Length of bus stops; marking; manner of stopping.
(a)
A no parking zone of forty (40) feet shall be created at all bus stops for the purpose of loading and unloading passengers.
(b)
Such no parking zones shall be marked by signs and, in addition, such zones in all congested areas shall have the curbs painted yellow. This proper marking of zones shall be maintained by the companies operating buses in and out of such zones.
(c)
Buses or any vehicles parked in such zones for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers shall pull as close to the curb as possible.
(d)
This section does not prohibit buses from loading and unloading at platforms at loading zones where they are provided for that purpose in the street.
(Code 1959, § 20-130)
ARTICLE C. - COMMERCIAL AND/OR HEAVY VEHICLES PARKED IN RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, AND/OR INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS

Sec. 10-3-39. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this section:
Commercial vehicle means any truck or similar motorized mechanism designed to transport individuals or goods which is powered by an engine and which is licensed by applicable governmental authorities as a commercial motor vehicle.
Commercial zoning district means any property located within a C-1 general commercial district; C-2 central commercial district; C-3 institutional-commercial district; or PUD planned unit development district if such district excludes residential units.
Heavy vehicle means any large vehicle, cab, trailer, truck, tractor trailer, bus or car carrier (including rollbacks and wreckers), including, but not limited to, school buses, in excess of nine hundred (900) cubic feet or one-ton capacity.
Industrial zoning district means any property located within an LI light industrial district; HI heavy industrial district; or PI planned industrial district.
Operations means the normal range of commercial and business activities, including, but not limited to, transporting and receiving supplies or merchandise and providing goods or services to the public.
Parking deck means a public or private structure or a portion thereof composed of one (1) or more levels of floors used exclusively for the parking of motor vehicles, whether public or private. A parking structure may be totally below grade (as in an underground parking garage) or either partially or totally above grade with those levels being either open or enclosed.
Parking lot means any dirt, paved or hard surface used to park or store motor vehicles.
Residential zoning district means any property located within an R-80 residential district; R-95 residential district; RM-85 residential district; RM-100 apartment dwelling district; RM-125 condominium-townhouse district; or PUD planned unit development district if such district includes residential units.
( Ord. No. 19-08, § 1 (Exh. A), 9-3-2019 )
Sec. 10-3-40. - Commercial and/or heavy vehicles parked in residential zoning districts.
(a)
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to park a heavy vehicle, or commercial vehicle that is used for commercial purposes in interstate or intrastate commerce, on any public street, private way, or on private property within the city that is located within a residential zoning district, unless the vehicle is actually engaged in loading or unloading activity, where the driver is present and in charge thereof.
(b)
It is further unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to maintain a heavy vehicle, or commercial vehicle that is used in interstate or intrastate commerce, on property within a residential zoning district, unless the vehicle is actually engaged in loading or unloading activity, where the driver is present and in charge thereof.
(c)
It is also unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to perform any type of maintenance or repair of a heavy vehicle, or a commercial vehicle that is used in interstate or intrastate transportation, within a residential zoning district.
(d)
It is further unlawful for parts of commercial or heavy vehicles and their accessories, including materials hauled by the vehicles, to be stored in a residential zoning district, on a residential lot, or serviced on a residential lot.
( Ord. No. 19-08, § 1 (Exh. A), 9-3-2019 )
Sec. 10-3-41. - Commercial and/or heavy vehicles parked in commercial zoning districts.
(a)
It is unlawful for any person to permit or cause any heavy or commercial vehicle to be parked or stored in a commercial district unless:
(1)
The vehicle is actually engaged in loading or unloading activity where the driver is present and in charge thereof;
(2)
The vehicle is owned or is being used by a business located on the property; or
(3)
A business on the property is conducting operations and the vehicle is being used in connection with such activity.
(b)
Where a heavy or commercial vehicle is parked in a parking lot located in a commercial zoning district pursuant to exceptions, subsections (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section, such vehicle shall park only in areas designated and posted as loading zones and/or loading docks or otherwise in areas not designated for customer parking.
(c)
The use of loading zones or loading docks by operators of heavy and/or commercial vehicles for sleeping or parking overnight is strictly prohibited. The use of any other parking area by operators of heavy and/or commercial vehicles for sleeping is strictly prohibited.
(d)
The provisions this section shall not apply to truck rental, leasing, or sale facilities operating and conducting business.
(e)
Vehicles displaying advertising of a business located on the property must be parked within the side or rear yard and may not be parked within the front yard, except vehicles parked temporarily while making a delivery, providing a service, or purchasing goods or services. Should there be no parking areas in the side or rear of the building, the vehicle may be parked in the front. Passenger cars (as classified by Federal Highway Administration FHWA) displaying advertising may be parked in the front yard. Under no circumstances may a vehicle with advertising park in any parking space adjacent to an exterior road.
(f)
Parking in hotel or motel lots.
(1)
Heavy and/or commercial vehicles may be parked in the parking lots of hotels and motels provided that the operators of said vehicles are registered guests of the hotel or motel, staying overnight and paying the full price of lodging, and provided that said vehicles are parked within the lines of a designated parking space clearly marked for trucks.
(2)
Where said heavy and/or commercial vehicle is a tractor trailer, only the cab of the tractor trailer may be parked in a hotel or motel parking lot in accordance with this subsection.
(3)
Any hotel or motel providing designated parking spaces for the parking of heavy and/or commercial vehicles pursuant to this subsection is prohibited from acting as a routing agent for said vehicles.
( Ord. No. 19-08, § 1 (Exh. A), 9-3-2019 )
Sec. 10-3-42. - Parking decks.
No heavy vehicles shall be permitted to park in any parking deck located in any zoning district within the city.
( Ord. No. 19-08, § 1 (Exh. A), 9-3-2019 )
Sec. 10-3-43. - Parking commercial and/or heavy vehicles overnight or for storage purposes.
Commercial and/or heavy vehicles may be parked overnight or for storage purposes in industrial zoning districts.
( Ord. No. 19-08, § 1 (Exh. A), 9-3-2019 )
Sec. 10-3-44. - Jurisdiction and enforcement.
The municipal court of the City of Forest Park shall have jurisdiction to hear, try, and dispose of citations that are issued for violations of this chapter. Citations may be issued by the city or its designee. Each day such violation exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
( Ord. No. 19-08, § 1 (Exh. A), 9-3-2019 )
CHAPTER 4. - ENFORCEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Traffic division of police department, § 4-1-2 et seq.; traffic violations bureau of municipal court, § 2-5-21 et seq.

Sec. 10-4-1. - General penalty.
Any person convicted of violating any provision of this title shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this Code.
(Code 1959, § 20-223)
Sec. 10-4-2. - Presumption in reference to illegal parking.
(a)
In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation governing the standing or parking of a vehicle proof that the particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was at the time of such parking the registered owner of such vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point where, and for the time which, such violation occurred.
(b)
The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when the procedure as prescribed in sections 10-4-3 through 10-4-5 has been followed.
(Code 1959, § 20-224)
Sec. 10-4-3. - Notice on illegally parked vehicle.
Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or stopped in violation of any of the restrictions imposed by this title or other ordinance of the city or by state law, the officer finding such vehicle shall take its registration number and may take other information displayed on the vehicle which may identify its user, and shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle a notice in writing, on a form provided by the chief of police, for the driver to answer to the charge against him at the time and place specified in the notice. The officer shall send one (1) copy to the traffic violations bureau.
Sec. 10-4-4. - Owner liable for parking violation.
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow, permit, or suffer any vehicle registered in his name to stand or park in any street, in violation of this title or any other ordinance of the city regulating the parking of vehicles. Such person shall be equally liable with the operator for such violation.
Sec. 10-4-5. - Failure to comply with notice attached to parked vehicle.
If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking under this title or other traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a notice affixed to such vehicle, at the time and place specified, the traffic violations bureau shall send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the notice was affixed a letter informing him of the violation and warning him that in the event such letter is disregarded for a period of five (5) days from the date of the letter, a summons of arrest will be issued.
(Code 1959, § 20-227)
Sec. 10-4-6. - When person charged may elect to appear at bureau or before municipal judge.
(a)
Any person charged with an offense for which payment of a fine may be made to the traffic violations bureau shall have the option of paying such fine within the time specified in the notice of arrest at the traffic violations bureau upon entering a plea of guilty and upon waiving appearance in court; or may have the option of depositing required lawful bail and upon a plea of not guilty shall be entitled to a trial as authorized by law.
(b)
The payment of a bond to the bureau shall be deemed as acknowledgement of conviction of the alleged offense, and the bureau, upon accepting the prescribed bond shall issue a receipt to the violator acknowledging the payment thereof.
Sec. 10-4-7. - When summons for arrest to be issued.
In the event any person fails to comply with a notice given to such person or attached to a vehicle or fails to make appearance pursuant to a summons directing an appearance in the traffic violations bureau, or if any person fails or refuses to deposit bail as required and within the time permitted by ordinance, the traffic violations bureau shall forthwith secure and issue a summons for his arrest.
(Code 1959, § 20-228)
Sec. 10-4-8. - Disposition of traffic fines and forfeitures.
All fines or forfeitures collected upon conviction or upon the forfeiture of bail of any person charged with a violation of any of the provisions of this title shall be paid into the city treasury.
(Code 1959, § 20-232)
Sec. 10-4-9. - Issuance of summons.
It shall be the duty of any member of the police division, in all cases where complaint is made or information obtained of any violation of any of the laws or ordinances of the city, to issue a summons, directed to the accused, requiring him to appear before the municipal court to answer such charge, which summons shall designate the time and place of trial. It shall be signed by the patrolman or officer issuing same and a copy thereof shall be served upon the accused either personally or by leaving the copy at his place of residence.
(Code 1959, § 20-233)
Sec. 10-4-10. - Penalty for failure to appear when served with copy of charges.
Any person who has been lawfully served with a copy of charges to appear in the municipal court and shall fail to appear at the time and place indicated in such copy of charges shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction in the municipal court shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code.
(Code 1959, § 20-235)
Sec. 10-4-11. - Failure to appear as provided in summons or notice.
Any person who fails to appear as provided in the notice or summons provided for in section 10-4-10 of this Code for any traffic violation is guilty of an offense for such failure to appear regardless of the disposition of the charge on which he was originally arrested.
(Code 1959, § 20-236)
Sec. 10-4-12. - When warrants for arrest to be issued.
When it shall be made to appear to the municipal court that any person has been lawfully served with a copy of charges to appear in such court for trial and shall fail to appear at the time and place set forth in such copy of charges, it shall be the duty of the municipal judge to forthwith issue a warrant, signed by the judge, for the arrest of such person and deliver same to the chief of police.
Sec. 10-4-13. - Issuance of warrants.
Any person witnessing a violation of a city ordinance by another person may appear before the municipal court and there swear out a complaint for said violation. Upon the signing under oath of said complaint by said complainant a warrant may be issued by the municipal court, signed by the municipal judge, and directed to the alleged violator to be and appear in said court to answer the charges as contained in said complaint.
