CHAPTER 6. - BUDGET

Sec. 3-6-1. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year for the City of Forest Park shall commence on July 1 of each year and shall terminate at midnight on June 30 of each year.
(Ord. No. 89-002, 1-16-89)
Sec. 3-6-2. - Budget ordinance.
The final budget, when approved by the governing body, shall be adopted as the city's budget by ordinance. This ordinance shall take the form of an appropriations ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose, or activity.
(Ord. No. 89-002, 1-16-89)
Sec. 3-6-3. - Budget contents.
(a)
The scope of any and all budgets acted upon by the governing body shall address itself to the projected revenues and expenses to be incurred by the city for the upcoming fiscal year.
(b)
Content of the budget. The final budget, as well as the preliminary budgets and worksheets shall contain a breakdown of projected revenues by fund source and a breakdown of departmental expenses for the upcoming fiscal year. They may also contain any item that the department head deems appropriate for inclusion in its budget.
(c)
The form of the final budget, when passed and adopted by the governing body, shall take the form of an appropriations ordinance and shall set out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and make appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose, or activity, so that the budget, in its final form, will contain a complete and accurate disclosure of the city's anticipated revenues and expenses for the upcoming fiscal year.
(Ord. No. 89-002, 1-16-89)
Sec. 3-6-4. - Preparation of annual budget.
The annual budget for the city shall be prepared substantially as follows:
(1)
On or before February 10 of each year, budget worksheets and preliminary budget instructions shall be distributed to operating departments for use in preparing their respective budget requests.
(2)
The city manager shall publish, or cause to be published, a calendar schedule for various elements and phases of preparation and review essential to the completion of a proposed annual budget for the city.
(3)
Not less than thirty (30) days prior to the first regularly scheduled council meeting in June of each year, the city manager shall provide the mayor and council with a proposed operating budget for the next fiscal year commencing July 1.
(4)
Not later than the first regularly scheduled council meeting in June of each year, the city manager shall provide the mayor and council with a recommended budget for the next fiscal year commencing July 1.
(5)
Along with a general operating budget for the city, the city manager shall prepare, in accordance with the same schedule, a capital budget for the city.
(Ord. No. 89-002, 1-16-89)
Sec. 3-6-5. - Capital improvement budget.
In the event that same becomes necessary, a budget shall also be prepared following the procedures set forth [in section 3-6-4] above for a capital improvement program.
(Ord. No. 89-002, 1-16-89)
Sec. 3-6-6. - Line item transfers by the city administrator.
(a)
Subject to the exception contained in subsection (c) below, the city council, by majority vote, may make changes in the appropriations contained in the current operating budget at any regular meeting, special or emergency meeting called for such purpose. Any additional appropriations may be made only from an existing unexpended surplus, with the same reflected in the minutes. Subject to the exception contained in subsection (c) below, the council only shall have the authority to make changes in the adopted budget to shift funds from one (1) line item to another.
(b)
Changes to the original budget ordinance. In the event that the financial affairs of the city require material alterations from the original budget ordinance, then, upon a finding by the governing body that changes need to be made in the budget, the governing body is authorized to change the budget by the enactment of an ordinance which shall set forth the reason that the change is being made and what part or parts of the budget are to be changed.
(c)
Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) above, the city manager shall be authorized, without further action by the mayor and council, to transfer funds from one (1) line item in a department to another line item within the same department. His authorization to transfer funds from one (1) line item to another line item shall be limited to the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or less. Further, this authorization shall not be used directly or indirectly to add positions of employment with the city.
Any such transfer of funds shall be promptly reported to the mayor and council at the next regular meeting or work session.
(Ord. No. 89-002, 1-16-89; Ord. No. 99-004, 3-1-99)
