Title 1 - General Provisions
Chapter 1.
Use of Code
CHAPTER 1. - USE OF CODE

Sec. 1-1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "Code of Ordinances, City of Forest Park, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1959, § 1-1)
Sec. 1-1-2. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the governing body:
Building and zoning administrator: Whenever the words "building and zoning administrator" are used, they shall mean the building inspector of the City of Forest Park, Georgia.
City: The words "the city" or "this city" shall mean the City of Forest Park, Georgia.
Computation of time: Unless otherwise specifically provided, the time within which an act is required to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last; except that the last day shall be excluded if it is Sunday.
County: The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean the County of Clayton, Georgia.
Delegation of authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or other officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize such department head or officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Department of planning, building and zoning: Whenever the words "department of public services" are used, they shall mean the department of planning, building and zoning.
Director of planning, building and zoning: Whenever the words "director of public services" are used, they shall mean the director of planning, building and zoning.
Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Governing body: Whenever the words "governing body" are used, they shall mean the mayor and council of the City of Forest Park, Georgia.
Joint authority: Whenever a joint authority is given to three (3) or more persons or officers, it shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of them.
Month: The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Number: Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural includes the singular number.
Oath: The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and"affirmed."
Or, and: "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Other officials or officers, etc.: Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only (i.e., "city clerk," "director of public works," etc.), they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions and departments of the City of Forest Park.
Owner: The word "owner" applied to real estate shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint interest or other fee interest in the whole or a part of such real estate.
Person: The word "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations and bodies politic and corporate, or any combination thereof, as well as to individuals.
Preceding, following: The words "preceding" and "following" shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
Signature or subscription includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State: The words "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street: The word "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public streets and ways in the city and shall embrace all parts thereof constituting the designated right-of-way.
Week: The word "week" shall mean seven (7) days.
Year: The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
Department of police services: Wherever the words "department of police services" are used herein, same shall mean the department providing police services for the City of Forest Park, Georgia and which shall hereafter be known as the "department of police services of the City of Forest Park, Georgia."
Department of fire and emergency medical services: Whenever the words "department of fire and emergency medical services" are used herein, same shall mean fire protection services and emergency medical services, together with the services of emergency management administration and all services providing thereby and shall hereafter be known as "the department of fire and emergency medical services."
Director of police services: Whenever the words "director of police services" are used, they shall mean the director of public safety of the City of Forest Park, Georgia.
Director of police and fire services: Whenever the words "director of police and fire services" are used, they shall mean the director of public safety of the City of Forest Park, Georgia.
Planning commission: Whenever the words "planning commission" are used they shall mean the planning and zoning board.
(Code 1986, § 1-1-2; Ord. No. 86-010, 5-19-86; Ord. No. 87-016, 11-2-87; Ord. No. 95-003, 5-1-95; Ord. No. 96-003, § 5, 2-5-96)
Sec. 1-1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The boldfaced catchlines of sections of this Code are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
(Code 1959, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinances repealed.
(Code 1959, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the governing body that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Code 1959, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-1-6. - Amendment to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
Conformity to numbering system; omission of repealed portions. All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code of Ordinances which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code of Ordinances may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages.
(b)
Form of amendments generally. Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code should be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section _______ of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Forest Park, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: … (Set out new provisions in full)."
(c)
Form for incorporation of new material. When the governing body desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the Code which the governing body desires to incorporate into the Code a section in substantially the following language shall be made a part of the ordinance: "Section _______. It is the intention of the governing body, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Forest Park, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
(d)
Repeal. All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
(e)
Renumbering. When necessary, sections and subsections to the Code may be renumbered by the official codifier for the city to fulfill the intent of the governing body but all such changes shall be approved in advance by the city attorney.
Sec. 1-1-7. - Altering Code prohibited; penalty for violation.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City of Forest Park, Georgia, to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 hereof.
(Code 1959, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-1-8. - General penalty.
Any person who violates any section or provision in this Code or in any ordinance of the city by doing any act which is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or who fails to do any act which is required by said Code or ordinance, shall, after trial and if convicted in the appropriate Forest Park Municipal Court, be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished by a fine in an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or imprisoned for a period not to exceed six (6) months and one (1) day, unless otherwise noted in this Code or other specific ordinance.
(Ord. No. 94-004, 10-17-94; Ord. No. 11-09, § 1, 3-7-2011; Ord. No. 14-21, § 1, 9-2-2014)
