DIVISION 7. - COMPLIANCE MONITORING

Sec. 74-401. - Inspection, entry of premises.
The superintendent, and other authorized representatives of state and federal regulatory agencies, shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this article and any wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall allow the superintendent ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, records examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties. The superintendent shall also have the right to enter all private properties through which the county holds a utility easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities lying within such easement. All entry and subsequent work on such easement shall be done in full accord with the terms of the utility easement pertaining to such property.
(1)
Where a user has security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation of suitable identification, the superintendent will be permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
(2)
The superintendent shall have the right to set up on the user's property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
(3)
The superintendent may require the user to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall be calibrated as needed to ensure accuracy.
(4)
Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user at the written or verbal request of the superintendent and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
(5)
Unreasonable delays in allowing the superintendent access to the user's premises shall be a violation of this article.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 49)
Sec. 74-402. - Search warrants; inspection warrants.
If the superintendent has been refused access to a building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this article, or that there is need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program of the county designed to verify compliance with this article or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, then the superintendent may seek issuance of a search warrant or inspection warrant from the magistrate or superior courts of the county.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 50)
Secs. 74-403—74-420. - Reserved.
