DIVISION 4. - WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION

Sec. 74-321. - Wastewater analysis.
When requested by their superintendent, a user must submit information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days of request. The superintendent is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require users to update this information.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 23)
Sec. 74-322. - Wastewater discharge permit requirement.
(a)
No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit from the superintendent, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a timely application pursuant to this section of this article may continue to discharge for the time period specified therein.
(b)
The superintendent may require other users to obtain wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this article.
(c)
Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this article and subjects the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in sections 74-431 through 74-483 of this article. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state and local law.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 24)
Sec. 74-323. - Wastewater discharge permitting—Existing connections.
Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who was discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this article and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future shall, within 30 days after said date, apply to the superintendent for a wastewater discharge permit in accordance with section 74-324 of this article, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after 90 days of the effective date of this article except in accordance with the wastewater discharge permit issued by the superintendent.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 25)
Sec. 74-324. - Same—New connections.
Any user required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who proposes to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this wastewater discharge permit must be submitted prior to the date upon which any discharge will begin or recommence.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 26)
Sec. 74-325. - Same—Application contents.
(a)
All users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit must submit a permit application. The superintendent may require all users to submit as part of an application the following information:
(1)
All information required by section 74-352 of this article;
(2)
Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at the facility;
(3)
Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or actual hours of operation;
(4)
Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and rate of production;
(5)
Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per day);
(6)
Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location, and elevation, and all points of discharge;
(7)
Time and duration of discharges; and
(8)
Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the superintendent to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application.
(b)
Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will be returned to the user for revision.
(c)
The permit application should be completed and returned 30 days from the receipt of the permit application.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 27)
Sec. 74-326. - Application signatories and certification.
All wastewater discharge permit applications and user reports must be signed by an authorized representative of the user and contain the following certification statement:
"I certify under penalty of law this document and all attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate any information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations."
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 28)
Secs. 74-327—74-345. - Reserved.
