DIVISION 11. - JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES

Sec. 74-461. - Injunctive relief.
When the superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the superintendent may petition the superior court through the county's attorney for the issuance of temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate. Said temporary or permanent injunction shall restrain or compel the specific performance of the wastewater discharge permit, order or other requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. The superintendent may also seek restitution, costs of environmental remediation, and attorney's fees for bringing the action. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 62)
Sec. 74-462. - Civil penalties.
(a)
A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the county for a maximum civil penalty of $1,000.00 per violation per day. In the case of monthly or other long term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
(b)
The superintendent may recover reasonable attorney's fees, court costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and monitoring expenses, the cost of remediation measures and clean-up, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the county.
(c)
In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take into account all relevant circumstances including, but not limited to, the extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the violation, any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor as justice requires.
(d)
Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(e)
All violations of this article may be prosecuted in the county magistrate or superior courts.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 63)
Sec. 74-463. - Criminal prosecution.
(a)
A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 per violation per day, or imprisonment for not more than six months per violation per day, or both.
(b)
A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of at least $1,000.00, or be subject to imprisonment for not more than six months, or both. This penalty shall be in addition to any other cause of action for personal injury or property damage available under state law.
(c)
A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations or certifications in any application, record, report, plan or other documentation filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this article, wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this article shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 per violation per day, or imprisonment for not more than six months, or both.
(d)
In the event of a second conviction, a user shall be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 per violation per day, or imprisonment for not more than six months per violation per day, or both.
(e)
All violations of this article may be prosecuted in the county magistrate or superior courts.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 64)
Sec. 74-464. - Remedies nonexclusive.
The remedies provided for in this article are not exclusive. The superintendent may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance with the county's enforcement response plan. However, the superintendent may take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant; further, the superintendent is empowered to take more than one enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 65)
Secs. 74-465—74-480. - Reserved.
