DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-31. - Copies of agreements of persons holding license furnished to police.
All agreements between and among any persons or stockholders of corporations or partners of partnerships holding a license to sell or dispense any alcoholic beverages by the bottle or by the drink and which agreements reflect or control ownership, division of profits, sharing of revenues of any kind, including payment of rents, or which agreements reflect any other arrangements in connection with ownership, rents, profit sharing or income application of use shall be in writing, and copies of all these agreements shall upon request be furnished to the department of police.
(Code 1977, § 14-2006)
Sec. 10-32. - Inspection of establishments.
(a)
Authorized. Sworn officers of the department of police shall have the authority to inspect establishments licensed under this chapter during the hours in which the premises are open for business. These inspections shall be made for the purpose of verifying compliance with this chapter.
(b)
Fees. The bureau of buildings and the department of fire shall each charge a fee of $50.00 for the inspections made to report on the compliance status of structures were alcoholic beverage licenses are requested.
(Code 1977, §§ 14-2007, 19-14.001; Ord. No. 2002-35, § 6, 5-28-02)
Sec. 10-33. - Sale of alcoholic beverages by certain nonprofit organizations.
An applicant may be issued a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises owned or chosen by any nonprofit corporation within the city conducting events upon meeting all the following requirements:
(1)
The applicant is a nonprofit corporation within the city sponsoring a fundraising event for the purpose of expanding research in the cure for cancer and providing information for the general public.
(2)
The applicant's fundraising event is held within the area described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of North Avenue and Marietta Street; thence east on North Avenue to Piedmont Avenue; thence south on Piedmont Avenue to Pine Street; thence east on Pine Street to Bedford Place; thence south on Bedford Place to Baker Street; thence west on Baker Street to Piedmont Avenue; thence south on Piedmont Avenue to Capitol Avenue to Memorial Drive; thence west on Memorial Drive to Peachtree Street to Spring Street; thence north on Spring Street to Marietta Street; thence north on Marietta Street to North Avenue.
(3)
The applicant sponsors a maximum of one fundraising event per year involving the sale of alcoholic beverages on the premises, provided that no such fundraising event shall exceed four hours.
(4)
The applicant shall show that the profits realized under any license granted under this section shall be used for the benefit of the nonprofit entity's organizational purposes.
(5)
The applicant shall show by plat the physical location of defined areas within which alcoholic beverages are to be sold, which shall comply with all sections of this chapter other than sections 10-62, 10-86(d) and 10-88
(6)
The applicant shall pay an annual license fee of $100.00.
(Code 1977, §§ 14-2008, 19-14.002)
Secs. 10-34—10-45. - Reserved.
