Chapter 126 - SOCIAL SERVICES[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 126-1—126-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CHARITABLE INSTITUTIONS

Sec. 126-26. - Monthly appropriations; effect of institution's refusal to receive charitable cases.
The amounts appropriated to charitable institutions shall be paid to these institutions in monthly installments. On failure of an institution to receive persons sent to it, as provided in section 126-28, the officer who shall have designated the institution shall report it to the chief financial officer, and it shall be unlawful for the chief financial officer to draw any further check or warrant for that institution or to approve any vouchers in its behalf. In that case, the appropriation set apart to that institution shall be stricken, and the amount appropriated for it shall be transferred to the department of contingent and grants.
(Code 1977, § 14-7031)
Sec. 126-27. - Reception by institution of persons claiming injury on streets, public places.
(a)
Notice required. The officers and agents in charge of all institutions of public charity to whose maintenance the city contributes shall notify the department of law at once of the reception of any person claiming to have received an injury upon the streets, avenues or public places of the city, in order that the claim may be promptly investigated and the evidence attending it ascertained for the information of the council or for defense, if suit follows.
(b)
Investigation. Inquiries shall be made by those officers and agents to ascertain the cause of injury, if the patient fails voluntarily to reveal it or if the circumstances suggest that injury.
(Code 1977, § 14-7032)
Sec. 126-28. - Duty of institutions to receive objects of charity when sent by heads of departments, mayor.
All organizations, bodies and homes organized for charitable and beneficent purposes to which the city may make appropriations, annually or otherwise, shall receive any objects of charity or persons in need of protection or aid sent to them by the head of any department of the city in the course of whose duty it may become necessary to provide for any of those persons, the institution selected each time to be the one appropriate to the particular case in hand. If there is no head of a department to give this direction, the mayor shall direct which institution shall receive and care for those persons.
(Code 1977, § 14-7033)
