DIVISION 12. - SEPARATIONS

Sec. 114-376. - Types.
Separations and/or terminations from positions in the civil service shall be designated as one of the following types:
(1)
Resignation means the voluntary action of an employee to separate from the position held.
(2)
Termination means the act of ending an employment relationship with an employee or not for cause.
(3)
Layoff or reduction in force means the termination of an employment relationship due to budgetary or financial reasons, or in the event an office or department reorganization.
(4)
Not fit-for-duty means termination of an employee from the civil service as a result of a fitness-for-duty examination by a licensed physician certifying the employee is unable to perform the essential functions of the position.
(5)
Dismissal means discharge or separation of an employee from the civil service for cause.
(6)
Retirement means the voluntary election of an employee to separate from the civil service and receive a distribution from a retirement fund.
(7)
Death means separation of an employee from the civil service shall be effective as of the date of death of the employee.
(8)
Private contract management, privatization, managed competition, or outsourcing of city services means termination of an employment relationship due to the city's decision to utilize an alternative source to manage a business function or operation.
(Ord. No. 2007-22(06-O-2700), § 1, 3-27-07)
Sec. 114-377. - Resignation.
An employee shall submit written notice of resignation at least 14 days in advance of the date of resignation to the department head. Immediately upon receipt of such notice of resignation, the department head shall forward the notice to the commissioner of human resources.
(Ord. No. 2007-22(06-O-2700), § 1, 3-27-07)
Sec. 114-378. - Termination.
An employee may be terminated from the service of the city for reasons other than causes set forth in section 114-528. Such reasons may include, but are not limited to lack of funding, grant expiration, completion of an employment contract, organizational restructuring, loss of a required license, or elimination of job functions.
(Ord. No. 2007-22(06-O-2700), § 1, 3-27-07)
Sec. 114-379. - Layoff or reduction in force
(a)
This section shall apply to regular employees within the classified service.
(b)
A reduction in force (RIF) occurs when an agency is obliged to demote, separate or furlough one or more employees because of lack of work, shortage of funds or reorganization. The cause of reduction in force may come from legislative action or from decisions of the head of the agency or some official who has been authorized to make such decisions.
(c)
Reduction in force may not be used for the purpose of dismissing or demoting regular status employees whose job performance is not acceptable. The progressive discipline process and adverse action procedures should be applied when performance problems arise. A RIF shall not be used to alter the racial or sexual composition of a department or classification.
(d)
Prior to initiating a RIF, the mayor should consider using other means, such as hiring freezes, reduction through attrition, furloughs without pay, reduced workweeks, reassignments or other methods to lessen the negative impact of such an action.
(e)
It shall be the responsibility of the commissioner of human resources, upon recommendation of the appointing authority, to define the area within which the mechanics of the RIF are to apply. This area shall normally be department wide or officewide. A more expanded or restricted area may be established when it is determined to be more practical.
(f)
The appointing authority, based on specific procedures established by the commissioner of human resources, will be responsible for developing a departmental RIF plan in keeping with this section. This departmental plan must be approved by the commissioner of human resources prior to implementation.
(g)
Within the area of the RIF, each affected class will be dealt with separately. Before regular employees in a job class can be demoted or separated, all temporary and probationary employees in the affected class will be separated. Employees serving a probationary period after a promotion shall compete in the class from which they were promoted. All individuals within each affected class will compete for the remaining positions in that class based on retention points. Individuals not selected to be retained in the remaining positions will be placed in a RIF pool in priority order based on retention points. Retention points will be determined by two factors: length of service and performance evaluation. Individuals in the RIF pool will be placed in vacant funded classified positions for which they qualify throughout the city based on their retention points. However, no employee will receive a promotion as a result of this procedure. Individuals for which no position can be found will be separated.
(h)
[Reserved.]
(i)
If an employee is placed in a lower pay grade as a result of a RIF, the employee will be placed within the new pay grade, which does not result in a change in pay provided also that the salary shall not exceed the maximum salary of the range. If an employee's salary exceeds the maximum salary of the lower pay grade, the employee's salary shall be set at the top of the new range.
(j)
The commissioner of human resource, at least 14 calendar days prior to the date of separation or demotion, shall notify in writing any regular employees scheduled to be demoted or laid off.
(k)
Employees demoted or separated as a result of a RIF will have priority reemployment rights based on their retention points to any vacant classified position for which they qualify, providing it does not exceed the pay grade in which they had regular status at the time of the RIF.
(l)
An employee will retain these rights for. a two-year period or until the employee refuses to accept a position offered in accordance with this section, whichever occurs first.
(m)
The commissioner of human resources has the authority to place individuals who were negatively affected by the RIF into vacant funded classified positions for which they qualify.
(n)
An employee shall have the right to appeal to the civil service board a failure to follow procedure in the administration of the RIF, but shall not have the right to appeal the reason for this reduction.
(Ord. No. 2007-22(06-O-2700), § 1, 3-27-07)
Sec. 114-380. - Fitness-for-duty.
The head of the department, with the approval of the commissioner of human resources, shall have the right to direct any employee within such department to be examined by a physician to be designated by the city. Upon the discovery of a disability of any kind which impairs the effectiveness of an employee or which makes the employee's continuance on the job a danger to the employee or others, the following action shall be taken:
(1)
If there is a dispute as to either physical or mental fitness of such person to be restored to such person's position with the city, the question of mental or physical qualifications shall be submitted to arbitration. To constitute the board of arbitration, the city shall select one physician or surgeon, the person claiming employment shall select one physician or surgeon and the two so selected shall select a third. The report of such board shall be final and conclusive upon the question presented and shall not be subject to appeal to the civil service board. Reasonable expenses of such board and compensation of the members thereof shall be paid by the city.
(2)
Should the board of arbitration determine that the disability is a correctable one, the employee shall be allowed a specified period of time, as determined by the board of arbitration, in which to have such disability corrected. Such time in which to correct the disability shall be charged to the sick leave of such employee until exhausted, then to the annual leave of such employee until exhausted and then to leave without pay. Should the employee fail to take steps to have the disability corrected within the specified time, such employee shall be subject to disciplinary action or layoff.
(3)
If, in the opinion of the examining physician, the disability cannot be corrected, the department head, with the assistance of the commissioner of human resources, shall take the following action:
a.
Attempt to place the employee in another position in which the employee can satisfactorily perform the duties of such position.
b.
Separate the employee from the civil service, if placement cannot be successfully accomplished.
(Ord. No. 2007-22(06-O-2700), § 1, 3-27-07)
Sec. 114-381. - Dismissal
(a)
Dismissal from the civil service shall constitute discharge or separation for just cause, which shall include but shall not be limited to delinquency, misconduct, inefficiency in performance or inability to perform assigned duties, insubordination or willful violation of this Code or the provisions of any city ordinance or of any rule or regulation of the city and any department thereof.
(b)
As to offenses for which progressive discipline is applicable, a classified employee shall not be dismissed until progressive steps of discipline have been taken, without positive results therefrom, and until the employee to be discharged has been presented in writing with specifically stated reasons for such discharge. A copy of the document stating such reasons shall be filed by the department head with the commissioner of human resources prior to the effective date of such action. Any employee so discharged shall have the right to appeal such action to the civil service board according to the appeal process outlined in article VI, division 2 of this chapter and shall have the right to be represented before such board by any individual of such employee's choice.
(Ord. No. 2007-22(06-O-2700), § 1, 3-27-07)
Sec. 114-382. - Retirement.
The
retirement of an employee from the civil service shall consist of the voluntary separation of an employee who has met the requirements of age and length of service under the law governing the pension fund of which such employee is a member or the mandatory separation of an employee who has attained the age of mandatory retirement.
(Ord. No. 2007-22(06-O-2700), § 1, 3-27-07)
Charter reference— Retirement, § 3-506.
Sec. 114-383. - Death.
Separation from the civil service shall be effective as of the date of the death of the employee. All compensation, including vacation pay, due to such employee as of the effective date of separation shall be paid to the beneficiary of the employee or the surviving spouse of such employee, as may be determined by law or by the applicable executed documents in the pension folder of such employee.
(Ord. No. 2007-22(06-O-2700), § 1, 3-27-07)
Sec. 114-384. - Separation on account of private contract management or operation, privatization or outsourcing of city services.
(a)
Separation from the civil service system on account of private contract management, privatization, managed competition, or outsourcing of city services occurs when the city determines by legislative action that it is in the best interest of the city to have city services privately managed, operated, privatized or outsourced and when it is necessary action to terminate and transfer employees within the civil service system to the workforce of a private contractor, agency or entity.
(b)
Separation of city employees from the civil service system on account of private contract management, privatization, managed competition, or outsourcing of city services shall be effective as of the commencement date of the contract which consummates the terms and conditions for the management, operation, privatization or outsourcing of city services.
(c)
This section shall apply to all regular employees of the city within the classified service. However, separations pursuant to this Code section may not be appealed to the civil service board.
(Ord. No. 2007-22(06-O-2700), § 1, 3-27-07)
Sec. 114-385. - Exit interviews.
(a)
An exit interview shall be utilized in order to provide the city with the reason for the termination by an employee of the employee's service with the city.
(b)
An exit interview program shall be established by the commissioner of human resources. Where possible, each employee who separates from city service shall be given the opportunity to be interviewed by the commissioner of human resources or designee prior to the time such employee receives final payment for the employee's services. Should such a personal exit interview not be feasible, the commissioner of human resources shall attempt to achieve such interview through the mail. The results of such exit interview shall be maintained by the commissioner of human resources and may be utilized by the applicable department head and the commissioner of human resources, as may be deemed appropriate.
(Ord. No. 2007-22(06-O-2700), § 1, 3-27-07)
Secs. 114-386—114-395. - Reserved.
