ARTICLE VIII. - ESCORT SERVICES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 30-641. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Escort means a person who is held out to the public to be available for hire and who, for monetary consideration in the form of a fee, commission or salary, consorts with, or accompanies or who offers, for monetary consideration, to consort or accompany another or others to social affairs, entertainments or places of amusement or within any place of public resort or within any private quarters.
(1)
Service-oriented escort is an escort which:
a.
Operates from an open office;
b.
Does not employ or use an escort runner;
c.
Does not advertise that sexual conduct will be provided to the patron or work for an escort bureau which so advertises; and
d.
Does not offer or provide sexual conduct.
(2)
Sexually-oriented escort is an escort which:
a.
Employs as an employee, agent or independent contractor an escort bureau runner;
b.
Works for, as an agent, employee, contractor, or is referred to a patron by a sexually-oriented escort bureau;
c.
Advertises that sexual conduct will be provided, or works for, as an employee, agent or independent contractor or is referred to a patron by an escort bureau which so advertises;
d.
Solicits, offers to provide or does provide acts of sexual conduct to an escort patron, or accepts an offer or solicitation to provide acts of sexual conduct for a fee in addition to the fee charged by the escort bureau;
e.
Works as an escort without having a current employee permit issued for the referring escort bureau in such escort's possession at all times while working as an escort; or
f.
Accepts a fee from a patron who has not first been delivered a contract.
Escort bureau means a person who, for a fee, commission, profit, payment or other monetary consideration, furnishes, refers to, offers to furnish or refer escorts, or provides or offers to introduce patrons to escorts.
(1)
Service-oriented escort bureau is an escort bureau which:
a.
Maintains an office at an established place of business;
b.
Employs or provides only escorts who possess employee permits;
c.
Does not use an escort bureau runner; and
d.
Does not advertise that sexual conduct will be provided to a patron.
(2)
Sexually-oriented escort bureau is an escort bureau which:
a.
Does not maintain an open office;
b.
Employs as an employee, agent or independent contractor, an escort bureau runner;
c.
Advertises that sexual conduct will be provided, or that escorts which provide such sexual conduct will be provided, referred or introduced to a patron;
d.
Solicits, offers to provide or does provide acts of sexual conduct to an escort patron;
e.
Employs, contracts with or provides or refers escorts who do not possess employee permits as required in section 30-668
f.
Does not deliver contracts to every patron or customer; or
g.
Employs, contracts with a sexually oriented escort or refers or provides to a patron a sexually oriented escort.
Escort bureau runner means an employee, agent or independent contractor of the bureau who, after the bureau receives a call from a prospective customer, goes to the customer's location to collect the escort fee and to make other necessary arrangements.
Offer to provide acts of sexual conduct means to offer, propose or to solicit to provide sexual conduct to a patron. Such definition includes all conversations, advertisements and acts which would lead a reasonably prudent person to conclude that such acts were to be provided.
Sexual conduct means the engaging in or the commission of an act of sexual intercourse, sodomy or the touching of the sexual organs, pubic region, buttock or female breast of a person for the purpose of arousing or gratifying the sexual desire of another person.
(Code 1977, § 14-6122)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Secs. 30-642—30-650. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 30-651. - Compliance required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an escort service without having first complied with this article, including obtaining of a permit for the operation of an escort service.
(Code 1977, § 14-6111)
Sec. 30-652. - Application; investigation.
(a)
Every person desiring to obtain a permit to operate an escort service shall make written application to the department of police upon forms to be prepared and approved by the mayor. Each applicant shall submit the following:
(1)
The name and address of the applicant.
(2)
The location of the proposed escort service.
(3)
The nature and character of the business.
(4)
If a partnership, the name of the partnership and the names and addresses of the partners.
(5)
If a corporation, the name of the corporation and the names and addresses of the officers and members of the board of directors and stockholders.
(6)
Any bank accounts listed in the name of the applicant or maintained by the applicant, whether an individual, partnership or corporation.
(7)
Whether the applicant or any partners or any corporation officers or board members or any principal shareholders have, within the preceding five years, a record for any conviction for the violation of any statute of the several states or the United States or of any ordinance of any city in the United States. The term "conviction" shall include an adjudication of guilt, a plea of guilty, a plea of nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond.
(8)
A listing of all real property which the applicant is presently leasing and the names and addresses of all lessees and lessors of the property.
(9)
A certified copy of the applicant's financial statement for the 12-month period ending one week before the filing of the application for a permit and the state of incorporation of such corporation, as well as the names and addresses of the agents and employees of such corporation for a period of two years immediately prior to the filing of such application.
(10)
Documentation of oral agreements, copies of all written agreements among any persons or stockholders of corporations or partners of partnerships applying for a permit to engage in an escort service, which agreements reflect or control ownership or division of profits, sharing of revenues or payment of rents or which agreements reflect any other arrangements in connection with ownership, rents, profit sharing or income application of use.
(b)
All applicants shall be investigated by the department of police and the department's findings shall be presented to the license review board at a public hearing on the application and the license review board shall recommend its findings to the mayor.
(c)
The mayor, upon receiving the recommendation of the license review board, may, within 60 calendar days of receipt of said recommendation, deny or grant the application for a new permit. In addition, within said 60-day period, if the mayor determines there is a need to correct a clear error or prevent a manifest injustice, the mayor may remand the application back to the license review board for further hearing. If the mayor fails to take action within the 60-day period, the recommendation of the license review board shall become the final decision of the mayor.
(Code 1977, § 14-6112; Ord. No. 2008-79(08-O-1677), § 12, 11-6-08)
Sec. 30-653. - Grounds for denial.
(a)
No permit or renewal permit for the operation of an escort service shall be issued to any person where any individual, having an interest either as owner, partner, officer or principal shareholder, directly beneficial or absolute, shall have been convicted within five years immediately prior to the filing of the application for any felony or misdemeanor of any state or of the United States or any municipal ordinance involving a crime of moral turpitude or relating to sexual offenses and related matters, to alcohol or drug offenses and related matters or to gambling offenses and related matters.
(b)
No permit shall be issued if the application contains a material omission, untrue or misleading information or if the application fails to indicate the true ownership of the proposed establishment.
(c)
No permit shall be issued if the proposed premises do not comply with the zoning ordinance, the fire code or the building code of the city.
(d)
No permit shall be issued where the person applying has had a permit to conduct a similar type business denied or revoked within a period of five years. The license review board may waive this prohibition if a period of two years has passed since the prior denial or revocation.
(Code 1977, § 14-6113)
Sec. 30-654. - Investigation fee.
Every applicant for a permit required by this division shall be investigated by the department of police and a recommendation shall be made to the license review board within 25 days of the filing of the application. An investigation fee of $25.00 for each application for a permit shall be paid to the department of police at the time of filing the application.
(Code 1977, §§ 14-6114, 19-14.024)
Sec. 30-655. - Renewal.
A permit to operate an escort service establishment shall be renewed annually as of the date of the original issuance of the permit. All applicants for renewal permits shall furnish all data, information and records requested by the license review board or the department of police. There shall be an initial and annual registration charge of $3.00 for the original issuance and renewal of each permit issued pursuant to this division. The police chief shall have the authority to renew the permit, and the decision may be appealed to the license review board for a hearing and recommendation to the mayor for final action.
(Code 1977, §§ 14-6115, 19-14.025)
Sec. 30-656. - Revocation.
Any permit issued under this division shall be subject to revocation for the violation of this article or any section of this Code or other ordinance related to the operation of the business or for any occurrence which would have barred issuance of the original permit. The permittee shall be notified of the recommendation to revoke and a hearing held before the license review board. The notification to the permittee shall contain a specification of the violation and shall be held at least five days and not more than 21 days after service of the notice, at a time and place to be ascertained by the license review board. After receiving the recommendation of the license review board, the mayor may revoke the license.
(Code 1977, § 14-6116)
Secs. 30-657—30-665. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - EMPLOYEES

Sec. 30-666. - Minimum age.
No person holding an escort service permit shall employ any person unless such person is 18 years of age or older.
(Code 1977, § 14-6117(a))
Sec. 30-667. - Effect of conviction for certain crimes.
No person holding an escort service permit shall employ in an escort service any person in any capacity whatsoever, including but not limited to performers, entertainers and musicians, who has, within five years of the date of employment, been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor of any state or of the United States or of any municipal ordinance, which conviction relates to sex offenses and related matters and alcohol or drug offenses and related matters.
(Code 1977, § 14-6117(b))
Sec. 30-668. - Permits.
(a)
Required. Any individual working in an escort service as an independent contractor or as an employee shall first obtain a permit from the chief of police prior to beginning such work.
(b)
Application. Application for a permit as required in this section shall be addressed to the police chief. The applicant shall furnish the following information:
(1)
Name and address of the applicant.
(2)
Name and address of any person having previously employed the applicant for a space of six weeks or longer.
(3)
A record of any conviction for the violation of a federal or state law or municipal ordinance.
(c)
Fee. Escort service companies shall pay a $100.00 fee for a certificate of eligibility (application fee). Each individual working as an employee or independent contractor of an escort service, shall pay a $50.00 application fee. Application fees are to accompany the application for a permit. The annual/renewal fee of the permit itself is $2,000.00 for escort companies and $300.00 for each person working as an employee or independent contractor of such escort service company.
(d)
Fingerprinting. No person shall be granted an employee permit until such person has been fingerprinted by the department of police.
(e)
Grounds for nonissuance or revocation. No person shall be issued any employee permit who has, within five years of the date of proposed employment, been convicted of any felony, misdemeanor or ordinance violation involving sex-related, alcohol-related or drug-related offenses. The police chief shall have the authority to revoke an employee permit for violation of this subsection. The permit holder shall have the right to appeal the revocation to the license review board within ten days after the notice of revocation. After receiving the recommendation of the license review board, the mayor may revoke the permit.
(Code 1977, §§ 14-6118, 14-6119, 19-14.026; Ord. No. 1999-23, § 1, 2-9-99; Ord. No. 2000-7, §§ 4, 5, 2-15-00)
Secs. 30-669—30-690. - Reserved.
