Chapter 32 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2); Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; cities to have or be included in comprehensive solid waste management plan, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 32-1. - Owners to provide garbage cans.
Every owner, agent, or occupant of any premises in the city whereon or wherein garbage of any nature shall be created, shall provide a container with a tightfitting cover of such size so as to be easily handled, and contained in a bag housed in said container and of such number so as to handle the accumulation of garbage of one week from such premises, in which all garbage accumulated in or on such premises shall be deposited. The term "garbage," as used in this section, means any house, kitchen, or other refuse composed of animal or vegetable matter or substances.
(Code 2000, § 62-1; Ord. No. 560, § 1)
Sec. 32-2. - Containers to be kept in convenient location.
All operators of business places, hotels, restaurants, and other structures must keep their garbage containers in such a location so as to be convenient to city trucks and city contractors/franchisees.
(Code 2000, § 62-2; Ord. No. 560, § 2)
Sec. 32-3. - Dumping garbage inside city without permit prohibited for residents outside city.
It shall be unlawful for any person who resides outside the city limits to bring any type of garbage or waste into the city for the purpose of dumping without obtaining a permit from the city.
(Code 2000, § 62-3; Ord. No. 560-9, 4-5-1976)
Secs. 32-4—32-24. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LITTER CONTROL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— City authorized to adopt litter control ordinances O.C.G.A. § 16-7-48.

Sec. 32-25. - General provisions.
(a)
Purpose and intent. The purpose of this article is to protect the public health, safety, environment, and general welfare through the regulation and prevention of litter. The objectives of this article are to:
(1)
Provide for uniform prohibition throughout the city of any and all littering on public or private property; and
(2)
Prevent the desecration of the beauty and quality of life of the city and prevent harm to the public health, safety, environment, and general welfare, including the degradation of water and aquatic resources caused by litter.
(b)
Applicability. This article shall apply to all public and private property within the city.
(c)
Compatibility with other regulations. This article is not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute, or other provision of law. The requirements of this article shall be considered minimum requirements and where any provision of this article imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall be considered to take precedence.
(Code 2000, § 62-31; Ord. of 4-1-2004(1), § 1)
Sec. 32-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Litter means any discarded or abandoned refuse, rubbish, junk, or other waste material; or dead animals that are not subject to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 4-5-4.
Public or private property means the right-of-way of any road or highway; any body of water or watercourse or the shores or beaches thereof; any park, playground, building, refuge, or conservation or recreation area; residential or farm properties, timberlands, or forests; or any commercial or industrial property.
(Code 2000, § 62-32; Ord. of 4-1-2004(1), § 2; Ord. of 10-6-2014(2))
State Law reference— Definitions pertinent to littering public and private property O.C.G.A. § 16-7-42.
Sec. 32-27. - Prohibition against littering on public or private property or in waters.
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw or leave, or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of, litter on any public or private property in the city or in any waters in the city, unless:
(1)
The property is designated by the state or by any of its agencies or political subdivisions for the disposal of litter and such person is authorized by the proper public authority to use such property;
(2)
The litter is placed into a nondisposable litter receptacle or container designed for the temporary storage of litter and located in an area designated by the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the property; or
(3)
The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, or has first obtained consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession, or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant, all in a manner consistent with the public welfare.
(Code 2000, § 62-33; Ord. of 4-1-2004(1), § 3)
State Law reference— Littering unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-43.
Sec. 32-28. - Vehicle loads causing litter.
No person shall operate any motor vehicle with a load on or in such vehicle unless the load on or in such vehicle is adequately secured to prevent the dropping or shifting of materials from such load onto the roadway.
(Code 2000, § 62-34; Ord. of 4-1-2004(1), § 4)
State Law reference— Vehicle loads to be securely fastened, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-248.1.
Sec. 32-29. - Violations, enforcement, and penalties.
(a)
Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this article. Any person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this article may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section or may be restrained by injunction or otherwise sentenced in a manner provided by law.
(b)
Evidence.
(1)
Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane, or other conveyance in violation of this article, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of the conveyance has violated this article.
(2)
Except as provided in subsection (b)(1) of this section, whenever any litter which is dumped, deposited, thrown or left on public or private property, in violation of this article, is discovered to contain any articles, including, but not limited to, letters, bills, publications or other writings which display the name of the person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the articles belong or belonged to such person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person has violated this article.
(c)
Penalties. Any person who violates this article shall be guilty of a violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows:
(1)
By a fine of not less than $200.00 and not more than $1,000.00;
(2)
In addition to the fine set out in subsection (c)(1) of this section, the violator shall reimburse the city for the reasonable cost of removing the litter when the litter is or is ordered removed by the city;
(3)
Pick up and removal of litter:
a.
In the sound discretion of the court, the person may be directed to pick up and remove from any public street, highway, or public right-of-way for a distance not to exceed one mile any litter he has deposited, and any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone else prior to the date of execution of sentence; or
b.
In the sound discretion of the court, the person may be directed to pick up and remove any and all litter from any public property, private right-of-way, or with prior permission of the legal owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, any private property upon which it can be established by competent evidence that he has deposited litter. Pick up and removal shall include any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone prior to the date of execution of sentence; and
(4)
The court may publish the names of persons convicted of violating this article.
(d)
Enforcement. All law enforcement agencies, officers, and officials of the state or any political subdivision thereof or any enforcement agency, officer, or any official of any commission or authority of the state or any political subdivision thereof is hereby authorized, empowered, and directed to enforce compliance with this article.
(Code 2000, § 62-35; Ord. of 4-1-2004(1), § 5)
State Law reference— Permitted inference of violation when litter thrown from motor vehicle or other conveyance, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-44; authority to enforce compliance, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-45.
