ARTICLE III. - TRANSIENT MERCHANTS[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Transient merchants, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 12-46. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Temporary seasonal vendor means a person and/or temporary merchant engaged in the business of selling agricultural products, including fruits, vegetables, trees, pumpkins or similar products, in a stationary location for a limited seasonal time period.
Transient merchant means any person, firm, or corporation, as principal or agent, or both, which is not a regular retail or wholesale merchant with a permanent place of business in the state, but rather one who displays samples, model goods, wares, or merchandise in any lot, building, room, or structure of any kind, whether fixed or mobile, for the purpose of securing orders for the retail sale of such items or items of like kind or quality for immediate or future delivery. The term "transient merchant" does not include any person, firm, or corporation which:
(1)
Sells agriculture or forestry products;
(2)
Makes house-to-house or personal calls for the purpose of displaying samples or taking orders for shipment directly from a manufacturer;
(3)
Conducts business at any industry or association trade show; or
(4)
Sells items at a rummage, garage, antique, or similar sale when such person, firm, or corporation is a resident of the state or has a permanent place of business within the state and such sale is not part of the regular business activity of such person, firm, or corporation or when the net proceeds of such sale are to be used for charitable purposes.
(Res. of 10-6-2014, exh. A(22-61))
State Law reference— Statutory definition of transient merchant, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-2.
Sec. 12-47. - Loud noises and speaking devices.
No permittee under this article, nor anyone on his behalf, shall shout, make an outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell, or use any other sound device, including any loud-speaking radio or amplifying system upon any of the streets, alleys, parks, or other public places of the city or upon any private premises in the city where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom, capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys, or parks or other public places, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares, or merchandise which such permittee proposes to sell.
(Res. of 10-6-2014, exh. A(22-62))
Sec. 12-48. - Enforcement.
It shall be the duty of the code enforcement officers of the city to examine all places of business and persons in their respective territories subject to the provisions of this article, to determine compliance herewith and to enforce the provisions hereof against any person found to be violating this article.
(Res. of 10-6-2014, exh. A(22-63))
Secs. 12-49—12-69. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 12-70. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for a transient merchant or temporary seasonal vendor to engage in such business within the city without first obtaining a permit to do so.
(Res. of 10-6-2014, exh. A(22-81))
Sec. 12-71. - Application.
An application shall be filed with the city clerk or his/her designee at least 30 days prior to an event where the applicant plans to do business. The city clerk may waive the time requirement upon the applicant showing good cause. Applicants for a permit under this division shall file a written sworn application signed by the applicant, if an individual; by all partners, if a partnership; and by an officer of a duly licensed entity (e.g., corporation, limited liability company) with the city clerk, showing:
(1)
The name of the person having the management or supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed that it will be carried on in the city; the local address of such person while engaged in such business; the permanent address of such person; the capacity in which such person will act (that is, whether as proprietor, agent, or otherwise); the name and address of the person, firm, or corporation for whose account the business will be carried on, if any; and if a corporation, under the laws of what state the business is incorporated.
(2)
The place in the city where it is proposed to carry on the applicant's business, and the length of time during which it is proposed that such business shall be conducted.
(3)
A statement of:
a.
The nature, character, and quality of the goods, wares, or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant;
b.
The invoice value and quality of such goods, wares, and merchandise;
c.
Whether the goods, wares, or merchandise are proposed to be sold from stock in possession or by sample;
d.
Whether the goods, wares, or merchandise are proposed to be sold at auction or by direct sale and by taking orders for future delivery;
e.
Where the goods or property proposed to be sold are manufactured or produced; and
f.
Where such goods and/or products are located at the time the application is filed.
(4)
A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising done or proposed to be done in order to attract customers and, if required by the city clerk, copies of all such advertising whether by handbills, circular, newspaper advertising, or otherwise, shall be attached to the application as exhibits thereto and permits attained as required by the code.
(5)
Credentials from the person for whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as such representative.
(6)
Such other reasonable information as to the identity or character of the person having the management or supervision of the applicant's business or the method or plan of doing such business as the city clerk may deem proper to fulfill the purposes of this division for the protection of the public good.
(Res. of 10-6-2014, exh. A(22-82))
Sec. 12-72. - Issuance.
The city clerk shall keep a full record in his/her office of all permits issued. Such permit shall contain the number of the permit, the date the permit is issued, the nature of the business authorized to be carried on, the amount of the permit fee paid, the expiration date of such permit, the place where such business may be carried on under such permit, and the name of the person authorized to carry on such business.
(Res. of 10-6-2014, exh. A(22-83))
Sec. 12-73. - Exhibition of permit; posting in separate businesses.
The permit issued under this division shall be posted conspicuously in the place of business named therein. If the person applying for such permit shall desire to do business in more than one place within the city, separate permits may be issued for each place of business and shall be posted conspicuously in each place of business.
(Res. of 10-6-2014, exh. A(22-84))
Sec. 12-74. - Fee.
The fee for any permit to be issued under this division shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges
(Res. of 10-6-2014, exh. A(22-85))
Sec. 12-75. - Hours of business.
It shall be unlawful for any merchant or vendor to engage in the business within the city between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
(Res. of 10-6-2014, exh. A(22-86))
Sec. 12-76. - Limitations.
Such permits shall be available to an applicant on a particular parcel of land for a period not to exceed 30 days and obtainable once every three months, provided that:
(1)
Sales must occur on property that contains a principal structure;
(2)
No display shall be erected or installed, nor shall any sale of goods and merchandise take place within 50 feet of the curb or within the public right-of-way;
(3)
Sales shall not be permitted within a residential zoning district;
(4)
Sales shall be permitted only on property where controlled vehicular ingress and egress with adequate off-street parking;
(5)
No merchant or vendor shall solicit directly to the motoring public; and
(6)
Charitable or nonprofit events shall not exceed four days.
(Res. of 10-6-2014, exh. A(22-87))
Sec. 12-77. - Transfer.
No permit issued under this division shall be transferred.
(Res. of 10-6-2014, exh. A(22-88))
Sec. 12-78. - Revocation of permit.
(a)
Any permit issued pursuant to this division may be revoked by the city manager, after notice and hearing, for any of the following causes:
(1)
Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the application for permit.
(2)
Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection with the selling of goods, wares, or merchandise.
(3)
Any violation of this article.
(4)
Conviction of the permittee of any felony or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
(5)
Conducting the business permitted under this article in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
(b)
Notice of hearing for revocation of a permit shall be given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed or personally served on permittee at his last known address, at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Res. of 10-6-2014, exh. A(22-89))
Sec. 12-79. - Appeal.
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the city clerk in regard to the denial of application for permit or in connection with the revocation of a permit, as provided herein, shall have the right to appeal to the zoning board of appeals of the city. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the zoning board of appeals within 14 days after notice of the decision of the city clerk has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written statement setting forth the grounds of appeal. The zoning board of appeals shall set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to such person in the same manner as provided in section 12-78 for notice of hearing on revocation. The order of the zoning board of appeals on such appeal shall be final with any appeal by writ of certiorari to Gwinnett Superior Court.
(Res. of 10-6-2014, exh. A(22-90))
Sec. 12-80. - Expiration.
All permits issued under the provisions of this division shall expire 90 days after the date of issuance thereof unless a prior date is fixed therein.
(Res. of 10-6-2014, exh. A(22-91))
Secs. 12-81—12-103. - Reserved.
