ARTICLE IV. - ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS

Sec. 4.10. - Department heads.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the city commission, by ordinance, shall prescribe the functions or duties and establish, abolish, or alter all nonelective offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city as necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of the city.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law, the directors of departments and other officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(c)
All appointed officers and directors of departments shall receive such compensation as shall be prescribed by ordinance.
(d)
There shall be a director of each department or agency who shall be its principal officer. Each director shall, subject to the direction and supervision of the city manager, be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of his or her department or agency.
(e)
All directors under the supervision of the city manager shall be appointed by the city manager, with confirmation of appointment by the city commission.
Sec. 4.11. - Boards [and other authorities].
(a)
The city commission shall create, by ordinance, such boards, commissions, and authorities to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial, or quasi-legislative function that the city commission deems necessary and shall, by ordinance, establish the composition, period of existence, duties, and powers thereof.
(b)
All members of boards, commissions, and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the city commission for such terms of office and in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, terms of office, or manner of appointment is prescribed by this charter or by law.
(c)
The city commission, by ordinance, may provide for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses of the members of any board, commission, or authority.
(d)
Any vacancy on a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed for the original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law.
(e)
No member of a board, commission, or authority shall assume office until he or she has executed and filed with the city clerk an oath obligating himself or herself to perform faithfully and impartially the duties of his or her office, such oath to be prescribed by ordinance and administered by the chairperson of the city commission.
(f)
All members of a board, commission, or authority shall serve at will, and any such member may be removed from office by a majority vote of the city commission.
(g)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law, each board, commission, or authority of the city shall elect one of its members as chairperson and one member as vice-chairperson, and may elect as its secretary one of its members or may appoint as secretary an employee of the city. Each board, commission, or authority of the city government may establish such bylaws, rules, and regulations, not inconsistent with this charter, the ordinances of the city, or law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs. Copies of such bylaws, rules, and regulations shall be filed with the city clerk.
Sec. 4.12. - City attorney.
The city commission shall appoint a city attorney, who shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia and shall have actively practiced law for at least five years. The city attorney shall serve at the pleasure of the city commission. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party, may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court, shall attend the meetings of the city commission as directed, shall advise the city commission and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs, and shall perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by virtue of his or her position as city attorney. The city commission shall provide for the compensation of the city attorney.
Sec. 4.13. - City clerk.
The city commission shall appoint a city clerk who shall not be a member of the city commission. The city clerk shall be the custodian of the official city seal, shall maintain city commission records required by this charter, and shall perform such other duties as may be required by the city commission. The city commission shall provide for the compensation of the city clerk.
Sec. 4.14. - Finance officer.
The city commission shall appoint a finance officer to collect all taxes, licenses, fees, and other moneys for the city, subject to the provisions of this charter and the ordinances of the city, and to enforce all laws relating to the collection of delinquent taxes and sale or foreclosure for nonpayment of taxes to the city. The finance officer shall also be responsible for the general duties of a treasurer and fiscal officer. The city commission shall provide for the compensation of the finance officer.
Sec. 4.15. - City marshal.
The city commission shall appoint a city marshal and such deputy marshals as necessary to levy and collect all fi. fas. for taxes, assessments, and fines due to the City of Buford, to conduct sheriff's sales and tax foreclosures, and to enforce such ordinances of the city and assist in the prosecution thereof, along with other duties prescribed by the commission or city manager.
Sec. 4.16. - Rules and regulations.
The city commission shall adopt rules and regulations consistent with this charter concerning:
(1)
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment;
(2)
The administration of a position classification and pay plan, methods of promotion and applications of service ratings thereto, and transfer of employees within the classification plan;
(3)
Hours of work, vacation, sick leave and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and the order and manner in which layoffs shall be effected;
(4)
Such dismissal hearings as due process may require; and
(5)
Such other personnel notices as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of personnel matters.
Sec. 4.17. - Official bonds.
To the extent required by resolution of the city commission, the officers and agents employed by the city shall give bond, payable to the City of Buford, Georgia, in some reputable surety company authorized to do business in the State of Georgia for such amounts as the city commission may designate, to be approved by the city manager, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of their office. The premiums on such bonds shall be paid by the city.
