ARTICLE V-A. - R-1 LAKE SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 5.05. - Statement of purpose.
The R-1L district is composed of the properties both bordering Lake Blackshear (and its creeks and tributaries), lots adjoining said properties, and lots contiguous to any public road accessing Lake Blackshear (and its creeks and tributaries) having a single-family residential character and undeveloped land where it is desirable and likely that similar development will occur. This district will be characterized by lot sizes designed for medium density residential development. The specific purpose of this district is to:
A.
Encourage the construction and continued use of land for single-family dwellings constructed on site;
B.
Prohibit business, commercial or industrial use of the land, and prohibit any other use which would substantially interfere with developing or maintenance of single-family dwellings in the district;
C.
Encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be permitted as new uses under the provisions of this chapter [appendix];
D.
Discourage any land use which would generate traffic on minor or local roads, other than normal traffic to serve residences on those roads;
E.
Discourage any use which, because of its size or character, would create requirements and costs for public services such as fire and police protection, water supply and sanitary sewerage substantially in excess of such requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for residential purposes.
(Ord. of 4-14-05)
Sec. 5.06. - Permitted uses.
The following uses are permitted in the R-1L district:
A.
Accessory building or use customarily incidental to any permitted use, when located on the same lot and not involving any business, profession, trade or occupation, provided all accessory same lot and not involving any business, profession, trade or occupation, provided all accessory buildings shall conform and be located as required in section 4.10 of this chapter [appendix]. However, no accessory building, as defined in section 2.02 of this chapter, shall be used for sleeping and/or living quarters, whether temporary or permanent in nature. Sleeping and living quarters shall be defined as an area that has bedding or any furniture normally used for sleeping accommodations, whether temporary or permanent in nature, with electricity by public utility or generator, bath, water and sewer hooked up to or attached to the accessory building.
B.
Church, provided the proposed site is not less than three acres.
C.
Garden.
D.
Guest home.
E.
Home occupation.
F.
Single-family, detached dwelling. The placement of manufactured homes shall be governed by section 5.07 herein.
(Ord. of 4-14-05; Ord. of 9-15-09(3))
Sec. 5.07. - Variance requirements for manufactured home sites.
Manufactured homes may be placed in the R-1L district conditioned upon the granting of a variance for such use pursuant to section 4.15 of this chapter [appendix]. The variance requirements for manufactured homes in the R-1L district shall be as follows:
A.
General requirements. Manufactured homes located in the R-1L district shall conform to the minimum requirements set forth in this article and shall further conform to Chapter 42 Code of Ordinances, Sumter County, Ga., Health Department Regulations, the comprehensive plan, and all building and construction codes as adopted by the board of commissioners. Nothing contained in this section should infer that inferior development is permitted or expected.
B.
Standards for design of manufactured home sites;
1.
All manufactured home sites located in the R-1L district shall conform to all regulations for the zoning district in which the property is located. The regulations of this section are intended to supplement and shall conform to all other regulations for zoning in Chapter 42, Code of Ordinances—Sumter County Georgia. Nothing contained in this section should infer that inferior development is permitted or expected.
2.
The use of flat or corrugated sheet metal, fiberglass, or similar substance for the exterior walls shall be prohibited. The exterior wall covering shall be either:
(a)
Wood or masonry finish or its appearance; and or
(b)
Vertically or horizontally grooved siding or lap siding or its appearance; and
(c)
The color and exterior materials shall be compatible with the adjacent single family structures.
3.
The manufactured home shall be placed on a permanent foundation that complies with the county's building and construction codes for residential structures and all Federal Housing Administration (FHA) standards. The foundation shall either be a slab or contain a solid perimeter wall of masonry, brick or other similar material in all installations in which the finished floor is more than six inches above the finished grade at any point.
4.
The towing apparatus, axle and wheels of the manufactured home shall be removed.
5.
The manufactured home shall be oriented on the lot so that it meets all lot and area requirements of the zoning district in which the home is located. The home shall be located with its long axis parallel to the street.
6.
Steps and landings are required of all homes and shall be constructed in accordance with the standards set forth in the Standard Building Code as adopted by the board of commissioners.
7.
All manufactured homes located on individual lots shall comply with the National Manufactured Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 as amended, 42 USC 5401 et seq., and bear the insignia issued by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
8.
All manufactured homes located at the Lake Blackshear area of unincorporated areas of the county shall be at least 18-feet wide at the main body's narrowest point with the exception that if the length and depth of a lot are not such that minimum setbacks can be maintained, then a mobile home of a maximum width may be considered as long as all other requirements are met. (i.e. If a mobile home of only 12′ would meet setback requirements, then that would be the maximum for that particular lot).
9.
All manufactured homes shall have a pitched roof so that there is at least a three inch vertical rise for each 12 inches horizontal run, with a minimum 12 inch roof overhang on each of the dwelling's perimeter walls such that the overhang is architecturally integrated into the design of the building.
10.
The roof of the manufactured home shall be covered with a material that is residential in appearance including but not limited to wood shingle, wood shake, synthetic composite shingle, ceramic tile rib panel, standing seam or other similar approved material but excluding corrugated aluminum, corrugated fiberglass, sheet metal or other similar substance.
C.
Manufactured home site utilities and improvements.
1.
Each manufactured home site shall be provided by the owner with a sewage collection system (public or individual) designed to comply with the county health department or EPD requirements.
2.
A potable water supply meeting the county health department requirements shall be provided by owner of the lot. If a publicly owned water system is available at the lot site, water service shall be connected to the site.
(Ord. of 4-14-05)
Sec. 5.08. - Conditional uses.
The following are conditional uses in the R-1L district:
A.
Bed and breakfast inn.
B.
Keeping of pet livestock and/or fowl subject to the requirements of section 4.13 of this chapter [appendix].
C.
Nursery school, kindergarten or day care facility provided all state licensing requirements are met, and located on a state highway.
D.
Public cemetery of at least five acres with adequate buffer and located on a state highway.
E.
Social or fraternal club, lodge, union hall and other similar use located on a state highway.
F.
Temporary emergency construction and repair residence.
(Ord. of 4-14-05)
_____
Sec. 5.09. - Area, bulk, and placement requirements.
R-1L SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
EXPAND
Minimum lot size per unit: 1. Open Ditch Rd.: 1.25 acre
2. Open Ditch Rd. (subject to Section 4.18) 1.00 acre
3. Curb and Gutter Rd.: 1.00 acre
4. C&Gutter + "public" H2O & sewer: 0.75 acre
5. C&G + "public" H2O & sewer: 0.50 acre
Minimum lot width at setback: 1. Open Ditch Rd.: 175 feet
2. Curb and Gutter Rd.: 150 feet
3. C&Gutter + "public" H2O & sewer: 125 feet
4. C&G + "public" H2O & sewer: 100 feet
Minimum building setbacks: 1. Front yard:
• Local road: 40 feet
• Collector road: 60 feet
• Arterial road: 75 feet
2. Rear yard: 50 feet
3. Side yard: 20 feet
  NOTES:
• This section is subject to the requirements contained in section 4.18 of this chapter [appendix].
• Lot length shall not be more than three times the lot width.
• In this district, proposed lots in a new development adjacent to or across the street from existing lots in a previously approved development shall be designed to have the same lot width, lot size and setbacks as the previously approved development. The purpose of this requirement is to ensure compatibility between existing and planned developments.
(Ord. of 4-14-05)
Sec. 5.10. - Replacement of manufactured homes and mobile homes by conventional, on-site constructed building.
A manufactured home or mobile home as defined in section 2.02 herein located on a standard or substandard lot in an R-1L district may be replaced by a conventional, on-site constructed dwelling, often referred to as "stick built construction" without the requirement of a variance. The proposed dwelling must meet all zoning setback requirements, fully comply with current zoning ordinances adopted by the board of commissioners and shall further conform to Chapter 42, Code of Ordinances, Sumter County, Ga., Health Department Regulations, the comprehensive plan, and all building and construction codes as adopted by the board of commissioners. Nothing contained in this section should infer that inferior development or construction is permitted or expected.
(Ord. of 9-15-09(4))
