ARTICLE XVI. - I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 16.01. - Statement of purpose.
The I-1 district is intended to permit certain industrial uses which are of a light manufacturing character to locate in planned areas of the county. Industries that utilize substantial quantities of water in their production processes are not permitted in this district. Industries in this district may or may not require rail frontage.
Sec. 16.02. - Permitted uses.
The following uses are permitted in the I-1 district:
A.
Bottling or packaging of cleaning compounds, polishes, etc.
B.
Building equipment, building materials, lumber, sand, gravel storage yards and yards for contracting equipment, maintenance or operating equipment of public agencies or public utilities, or materials or equipment of similar nature.
C.
Carpet manufacturing.
D.
Carpenter and cabinet making shops.
E.
Cold storage plants.
F.
Dental, surgical and optical goods manufacturing.
G.
Electrical, glazing, heating, painting, paper hanging, plumbing, roofing or ventilation contractor's establishments including outside storage yards.
H.
Electric motor and generator manufacturing.
I.
Electronic manufacturing and assembly plants.
J.
Moving or storage offices and warehouse.
K.
Natural gas and petroleum products storage and sales.
L.
Pharmaceutical products manufacturing.
M.
Plastic product manufacturing, but not including the processing of the raw materials (no actual plastic making).
N.
Printing, engraving and bookbinding shops.
O.
Processed agricultural products other than meat, poultry or animal products.
P.
Publicly owned buildings, public utility buildings and service yards including storage yards.
Q.
Radio, cellular phone or similar transmission or receiving towers.
R.
Research and testing laboratories.
S.
Soft drink bottling establishments.
T.
Textile and clothing manufacturing.
U.
Tool, die, gauge and machine shops.
V.
Warehouse, storage and transfer, electric and gas service buildings and yards, public utility buildings, telephone exchange buildings and substations, gas regulator stations.
W.
Wholesale bakeries, baking plants, etc.
Sec. 16.02.1. - Conditional uses.
Solar farms that satisfy the criteria of article V of chapter 70 of the county code of ordinances governing standards for solar farms, and any other ordinances or conditions applicable to solar farms shall be permitted as conditional uses in the I-1 Light Industrial District.
(Ord. of 4-19-16(1), § 3)
Sec. 16.03. - Area and placement requirements.
I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
EXPAND
Minimum lot size per unit: 1. Open Ditch Rd: 5 acres
2. Curb and Gutter Rd: 3 acres
Minimum lot width at setback: 1. Open Ditch Rd: 400 feet
2. Curb and Gutter Rd: 225 feet
Minimum building setback: 1. Front yard:
• Local road: 75 feet
• Collector road: 90 feet
• Arterial road: 120 feet
2. Rear yard: 75 feet
3. Side yard: 50 feet
