ARTICLE V. - R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 5.01. - Statement of purpose.
The R-1 district is composed of certain areas having a single-family residential character and undeveloped land where it is desirable and likely that similar development will occur. This district will be characterized by lot sizes designed for medium density residential development. The specific purpose of this district is to:
A.
Encourage the construction and continued use of land for single-family dwellings constructed on site;
B.
Prohibit business, commercial or industrial use of the land, and prohibit any other use which would substantially interfere with development or maintenance of single-family dwellings in the district;
C.
Encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be permitted as new uses under the provisions of this chapter [appendix];
D.
Discourage any land use which would generate traffic on minor or local roads, other than normal traffic to serve residences on those roads;
E.
Discourage any use which, because of its size or character, would create requirements and costs for public services such as fire and police protection, water supply and sanitary sewerage substantially in excess of such requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for residential purposes.
Sec. 5.02. - Permitted uses.
The following uses are permitted in the R-1 district:
A.
Accessory building or use customarily incidental to any permitted use, when located on the same lot and not involving any business, profession, trade or occupation, provided all accessory buildings shall conform and be located as required in section 4.10 of this chapter [appendix].
B.
Church, provided the proposed site is not less than three acres.
C.
Garden.
D.
Guest home.
E.
Home occupation.
F.
Single-family, detached dwelling, except manufactured home.
Sec. 5.03. - Conditional uses.
The following are conditional uses in the R-1 district:
A.
Bed and breakfast inn.
B.
Keeping of pet livestock and/or fowl subject to the requirements of section 4.13 of this chapter [appendix].
C.
Nursery school, kindergarten or day care facility provided all state licensing requirements are met, and located on a state highway.
D.
Public cemetery of at least five acres with adequate buffer and located on a state highway.
E.
Social or fraternal club, lodge, union hall and other similar use located on a state highway.
F.
Temporary emergency construction and repair residence.
Sec. 5.04. - Area, bulk, and placement requirements.
R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
EXPAND
Minimum lot size per unit: 1. Open Ditch Rd.: 1.25 acres
2. Curb and Gutter Rd.: 1.00 acre
3. C&Gutter + "public" H 2 O or sewer: 0.75 acre
4. C&G + "public" H 2 O & sewer: 0.50 acre
Minimum lot width at setback: 1. Open Ditch Rd.: 175 feet
2. Curb and Gutter Rd.: 150 feet
3. C&Gutter + H 2 O or sewer: 125 feet
4. C&G + H 2 O & sewer: 100 feet
Minimum building setbacks: 1. Front yard:
• Local road: 40 feet
• Collector road: 60 feet
• Arterial road: 75 feet
2. Rear yard: 50 feet
3. Side yard: 20 feet
  NOTES:
• Lot length shall not be more than three times the lot width.
• In this district, proposed lots in a new development adjacent to or across the street from existing lots in a previously approved development shall be designed to have the same lot width, lot size and setbacks as the previously approved development. The purpose of this requirement is to ensure compatibility between existing and planned developments.
