Chapter 50 - ROADS AND BRIDGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the county saved from repeal, § 1-6(6); any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the county saved from repeal, § 1-6(15); buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 34; floods, ch. 38; parades, processions, other assemblies, § 46-101 et seq.; subdivisions, ch. 58; traffic and vehicles, ch. 66; utilities, ch. 70.
State Law reference— Damaging public property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25; Georgia Code of Public Transportation, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-1 et seq.; governmental authorization for construction or maintenance of any private road unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-8; state, county and municipal road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-1 et seq.; county road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-40 et seq.; regulation of maintenance and use of public roads generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1 et seq.; grants for construction and maintenance of county roads, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-20 et seq.; power to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, street lights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 50-1. - Road and street identification signs.
(a)
Road and street identification signs will be placed at all intersections of public roads, and at the intersection of private roads that intersect with the public roads of the county, but in no event will the county erect road or street signs on interior private roads, or on roads or streets that a developer is required to erect in conformity with the subdivision ordinance of the county or any other ordinance of the county governing the identification of roads and streets in the county.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a person authorized by the county, to remove or damage a road or street sign erected by the county and such person shall be prosecuted under the penalties provided for in the ordinances of the county or under the laws of the state, as the commissioners deem best.
(Ord. of 11-21-00)
Secs. 50-2—50-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - NAMING OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE ROADS

Sec. 50-31. - Legislative findings.
In accordance with the power and authority vested in the board of commissioners the board of commissioners has determined that it is in the best interest of the health, welfare and safety of the citizens of the county, that this article be enacted to govern, regulate and control the naming of county roads so that there will not be two roads in the county known by the same name and to adopt procedures for the assignment of names of all county roads, assignment of addresses and for other purposes.
(Ord. of 5-9-95, preamble)
Sec. 50-32. - Adoption of official road name list.
The board of commissioners will adopt an official county road name list, and the names of all roads on that road list shall be the official name of each road in the county. However, the road may not be a road that has not been accepted by the county.
(Ord. of 5-9-95, § 1)
Sec. 50-33. - Approval of official road name list.
The board of commissioners shall approve an official road name list identifying all the roads in the county, and the roads shall be known by the names identified on that official road name list.
(Ord. of 5-9-95, § 2)
Sec. 50-34. - Naming of roads by board of commissioners.
All roads, public and private, in the county will be named by the board of commissioners. Recommended names of roads may be submitted to the board of commissioners. The names must be approved by the board of commissioners before being officially added to the official road name list.
(Ord. of 5-9-95, § 3)
Sec. 50-35. - Notification to county inspector.
(a)
Before any road name is accepted by the board of commissioners, the individual desiring to name a road must notify the county inspector of the proposed name of each road to be named, and also give to the county inspector an alternate name if the primary name is not accepted.
(b)
The county inspector shall cause the official road name list of the county to be searched to determine if there is a county road on the official county road name list with the same name as the name requested for the new road.
(c)
The county inspector shall notify the individual wishing to dedicate the road that the name suggested is, or is not, the name of a road that is currently used. If the name is one that is already used, another name will be required to be submitted for the road.
(d)
If the name of the new road is not being used, the county inspector shall inform the board of commissioners of the new name and that it is not a duplicate road name.
(Ord. of 5-9-95, § 4)
Sec. 50-36. - Action of board of commissioners.
The board of commissioners may accept the road with the name offered, or, at their discretion, may refuse the name offered and change the name of the road to a name that is acceptable to the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 5-9-95, § 5)
Sec. 50-37. - Addresses.
In order to promote and maintain an orderly, structured, coherent address plan, all residences, businesses, structures and other such facilities as may have need for an address on and along public and private roads in the unincorporated areas of the county shall have an address assigned by the county inspector or other duly appointed designee of the county administrator of the county. Addresses shall be assigned in conformance with the established county addressing plan for the unincorporated areas of the county that is in place as of May 9, 1995, the date of adoption of the ordinance from which this section derives. Persons needing an address shall contact the county inspector's office for such assignment.
(Ord. of 5-9-95, § 6; Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1)
Secs. 50-38—50-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - HEAVY HAULING

Sec. 50-71. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to regulate the use of heavy equipment, machinery and vehicles on county roads and rights-of-way.
(Ord. of 12-12-95, preamble)
Sec. 50-72. - Compliance with article required.
Any person using a county right-of-way in carrying out his business by loading, transporting or unloading materials of any nature in excess of 25 tons, whether on the road surface or a county right-of-way, or crossing the unpaved portion of the right-of-way, including ditches or embankments, shall comply with the terms and conditions of this article.
(Ord. of 12-12-95, preamble)
Sec. 50-73. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Access site means any temporary roadway, drive, structure, fill or device, existing or constructed, that is used or employed for the purpose of crossing, travel upon or use of county road rights-of-way.
County right-of-way means the shoulder, front slope, ditch, drain and back slope, facility or any appurtenance of any county road.
County road means any county-owned or county-maintained highway, road, street, avenue, drive, detour or other way open to the public and intended or used for the passage of motor vehicles.
Heavy equipment machinery and vehicles means all devices in, upon or by which any person or property may be transported or drawn, including but not limited to semitrailers, trailers, tractors and truck-tractors; however, vehicles in use immediately for the control or extinguishing of wildfires shall be exempt from this definition.
Loading and unloading shall have its everyday meaning but also shall include any activity known as harvesting, mining of any product or material.
Logger means a person in the business of or process of cutting timber from a tract of land and loading and hauling the timber to another site.
Operations means those activities contemplated by this article, including the loading or transporting of raw materials such as stone, timber, oil, fill dirt, produce and kaolin.
Operator means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or private organization or any character, and the officer's agents and employees thereof carrying out the activities contemplated by this article.
(Ord. of 12-12-95, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 50-74. - Application for hauling.
For each separate tract of land from which the hauling will take place, the applicant shall fill out an application, which at a minimum shall provide:
(1)
His name, address and telephone number.
(2)
The name of the owner of each tract.
(3)
The approximate location of the site for access to county roads for each tract.
(Ord. of 12-12-95, § 2)
Sec. 50-75. - Inspection; installation of required culverts.
(a)
Upon receipt of the information required by section 50-74, the county public works director (CPWD) shall, within two days, inspect each such site to determine if a culvert is required to provide ingress and egress from the county road to the tract and, if so, the length and diameter of the culvert. Should a culvert be required, it shall be installed at the expense of the applicant under the supervision of the CPWD. Applicants shall have the right to remove any culvert installed by them upon completion of the tree removal.
(b)
After the initial inspections, the CPWD will complete the condition of road report and send a copy to the applicant and a copy to the county administrator of the county (CA). The CPWD will keep the original.
(Ord. of 12-12-95, § 3; Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1)
Sec. 50-76. - Road entrance.
The entrance onto the county road from the loading operation shall be of sufficient width so that the hauling trucks entering the road will have to turn as little as possible on the pavement.
(Ord. of 12-12-95, § 4)
Sec. 50-77. - Requirements for removal of trees.
During the removal of trees from a tract, the logger shall:
(1)
Conduct all loading of logs at a site off the county right-of-way and behind the established ditch line maintained by the county.
(2)
Refrain from loading or skidding any logs upon or across the county's right-of-way.
(3)
Keep ditches clear of debris and residue so as to not interfere with proper drainage.
(4)
Keep the road adjacent to the site clean and serviceable at all times to accommodate the passing public, emergency vehicles, school buses, mail carriers, etc.
(Ord. of 12-12-95, § 5)
Sec. 50-78. - Mud to be kept off roadway.
Haulers shall use necessary means to prevent trucks and other equipment from transporting mud from the site on the adjacent roadway to such an extent as creates a danger to the passing public.
(Ord. of 12-12-95, § 6)
Sec. 50-79. - Notice of completion; inspection of site.
(a)
Haulers shall notify the clerk of the board of commissioners within three days of the completion of loading removal or tree removal at each site, whereupon the CPWD shall inspect the site. Should the CPWD determine that the road and right-of-way is in as good condition as prior to the commencement of the loading removal or tree removal, the applicant's responsibility for that tract shall be terminated. If corrective repairs are necessary, the reasonable cost thereof shall be paid by the applicant within 30 days of written notification.
(b)
The CPWD shall inspect each site within three days of receiving notice of completion by the applicant, and shall fill out a condition of road report and shall file the original with the CA, send a copy to the CA, and keep a copy for himself. The CA shall forward a copy of the condition of road report to the applicant.
(c)
If the applicant disagrees with the final finding as stated on the final road report by the CPWD, the applicant can appeal the decision to the board of commissioners, which shall be heard at their next regular meeting. If the applicant disagrees with the decision of the board of commissioners, the applicant shall make such fact known by filing a written appeal; and within five days an arbitration board shall be impaneled. The arbitration board shall consist of three individuals; one person selected by the board of commissioners, one person selected by the applicant, and one person mutually agreed upon by the two persons selected. Once the arbitration board has been selected, each party shall submit his case to the arbitration board on a date and time certain to be set by the arbitration board within ten days of being appointed. The arbitration board shall make their final decision no later than 30 days after the date of the final hearing. The decision of the arbitration board shall be final.
(Ord. of 12-12-95, § 7; Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1)
Sec. 50-80. - Stop work orders.
The board of commissioners hereby authorizes the CPWD to order all hauling operations to cease if it is determined that a hauler is failing to comply with this article.
(Ord. of 12-12-95, § 8)
Sec. 50-81. - Penalty.
Prosecutions for violations of this article shall be upon citation as provided in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63 or upon accusation of the county attorney or such other attorney as the board shall designate. The violator may be required to reimburse the county for the expense incurred by the county in repair work the violator was responsible for performing, plus a penalty of up to $500.00 for each separate violation.
(Ord. of 12-12-95, § 9)
Secs. 50-82—50-115. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - ROAD AND STREET SPECIFICATIONS

Sec. 50-116. - Provisions saved from repeal.
The resolution dated June 14, 1983, which specified requirements for acceptance of roads and streets by the board of commissioners, is not repealed and shall continue in full force and effect pending a revision of the subject matter by the county.
