Chapter 10 - CEMETERIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Cemeteries generally, O.C.G.A. § 10-14-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CITY CEMETERIES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Municipal cemeteries, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-37-4 et seq., 36-72-1 et seq.

Sec. 10-19. - Duties of Clerk.
(a)
The Clerk shall sell lots in the cemetery or cemeteries and shall make out and deliver to the purchaser, upon receipt of the purchase money, a deed to the same. The price of all lots shall be regulated by the Council.
(b)
The Clerk shall keep a record of the owners of all lots in the cemeteries.
(c)
The Clerk shall keep in a book provided for that purpose a list of the names of all paupers buried in the City cemeteries with the number of the cemetery lots in which buried, which information shall be furnished by the Sexton, also the names of all persons not buried on private lots, and the numbers of the cemetery lots on which same are buried.
(Code 2003, § 4-3001)
Sec. 10-20. - Removal of materials.
All heaps of earth, brick, rubbish or building materials of any kind shall be removed by the person placing the same in a cemetery within 48 hours after the completion of the work for which they were intended to be used.
(Code 2003, § 4-3002)
Sec. 10-21. - Cleaning of lots.
It shall be the duty of every owner of any lot in a cemetery to keep it clean and free from weeds, trash, rubbish, and other refuse.
(Code 2003, § 4-3003)
Sec. 10-22. - Appropriation of cemetery funds.
All moneys arising from the sale of lots in the cemeteries shall first be applied to the cleaning off and improving of the cemeteries until all of the debts are discharged, after which all moneys so arising shall be applied to the debts created for the purchase of the cemeteries. When all of the debts are fully discharged and paid off, all moneys in the treasury from cemetery sources shall be further applied to the improvement and beautifying of the cemeteries.
(Code 2003, § 4-3004)
Sec. 10-23. - Sexton; duties.
(a)
Burials. The Sexton shall have the general care of the cemeteries and burial grounds of the City and shall conduct the digging of all graves and supervise the burying of all dead bodies therein. Upon being notified of a funeral, the Sexton shall, without delay, make all necessary preparations and see that it is properly and punctually carried out. The Sexton shall dig or cause to be dug all graves to the depth of not less than four feet when walled up and 4½ feet when otherwise.
(b)
Private lots. The Clerk shall furnish to the Sexton a complete map and plan of the cemeteries of the City, designating thereon what lots are owned by private individuals and by whom they are owned, and the Sexton shall not allow anyone to be buried on a private lot except the owner of such lot or a member of his family, unless otherwise instructed by the owner.
(c)
Rules. The Sexton shall see that all rules, regulations and ordinances of the City, relative to cemeteries, are properly enforced, and shall promptly report all violations to the Mayor.
(d)
Pauper burials. The Sexton shall bury all paupers, when so directed by the Mayor and two members of Council. The cost of digging paupers' graves shall be charged to the City. The Sexton shall report the names of all paupers buried by the Sexton in the cemeteries to the Clerk, together with the number of the cemetery lot on which same are buried, and also the names of all persons not buried on private lots with the number of the cemetery lot on which same are buried.
(Code 2003, § 4-3005)
