ARTICLE VI. - SIGNS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Outdoor advertising signs, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-50 et seq.

Sec. 54-344. - Purpose.
It is the purpose of this article to permit signs of a commercial nature in districts in which they are appropriate uses, and to regulate the size, density, and placement of signs intended to be seen from a public right-of-way in the interest of highway safety and the general welfare. For the purpose of the administration of the sign provisions of this chapter, signs shall be interpreted as typical accessory uses in their appropriate zoning districts.
(Code 2003, § 8-3111; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 11-1)
Sec. 54-345. - General provisions.
All signs within the area covered by these regulations shall be erected, constructed, or maintained in accordance with the provisions of this article; and only those signs that are listed in this article shall be erected within said area.
(1)
Traffic safety. No sign shall be erected or continued that:
a.
Obstructs the sight distance along a public right-of-way.
b.
Would tend by its location, color, or nature, to be confused with or obstruct the view of traffic signs or signals.
c.
Uses admonitions such as "stop," "go," "slow," "danger," etc., which might be confused with traffic directional signals.
(2)
Construction prohibited. No sign shall be attached to or painted on any street, rock, or other natural object nor shall any sign be located on any public right-of-way.
(3)
Density and setback requirements.
a.
Signs which do not require a permit shall be at least ten feet from any right-of-way line unless said signs are less than three feet in height above adjacent roadway grade or are located at least 12 feet above the adjacent finished roadway grade.
b.
Signs which require a permit:
1.
Advertising incidental use signs, advertising separate use signs, point of business signs, identification signs and bulletin boards shall be setback at least ten feet from any right-of-way line unless said signs are less than three feet in height above adjacent road-way grade or are located at least 12 feet above the adjacent finished roadway grade.
2.
No permit shall be issued for any advertising separate use sign within 100 feet of any residential district.
(Code 2003, § 8-3112; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 11-2)
Sec. 54-346. - Illumination not to be a nuisance.
Illumination devices such as, but not limited to, flood or spotlights shall be so placed and so shielded as to prevent the rays or illumination therefrom being cast into neighboring dwellings and approaching vehicles.
(Code 2003, § 8-3113; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 11-3)
Sec. 54-347. - Signs not requiring a permit.
The following signs shall not require a permit:
(1)
Signs to regulate traffic.
(2)
Signs required to be posted by law.
(3)
Warning signs and no trespassing signs.
(4)
Signs established by governmental agencies.
(5)
Signs indicating bus stops, taxi stands, and similar transportation.
(6)
Signs not exceeding ten square feet in area advertising specific property for sale, lease, rent, or development, on private property.
(7)
Temporary real estate signs less than ten square feet in area advertising specific property for sale, lease, rent, or development, on private property.
(8)
Any sign not exceeding ten square feet in area other than advertising separate use signs or signs requiring electrical wiring.
(9)
Temporary signs on private land involved in campaigns of religious, charitable, civic, fraternal, political, and similar organizations.
(Code 2003, § 8-3114; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 11-4)
Sec. 54-348. - Maximum area of signs.
No freestanding sign shall be larger in area than 400 square feet per side, limit of two sign faces per travel direction.
(Code 2003, § 8-3115; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 11-5)
Sec. 54-349. - Issuance of permits.
No sign, except those listed in Section 54-347, shall be erected, hung, or placed or structurally altered without a permit from the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall only issue a permit for the erection or construction of a sign which meets the requirements of this article.
(1)
Filing procedures. Application for permits to erect, hang, or place a sign shall be submitted on forms obtainable from the Zoning Administrator. Each application shall be accompanied by plans showing the area of the sign, size and character and the method of illumination, if any, and the exact location proposed for such sign and in the case of a projecting sign, the proposed method of fastening said sign to the building structure, the vertical distance between such sign and the finished grade, and the horizontal distance between such sign and the street right-of-way.
(2)
Additional information. Each applicant shall, upon the request Zoning Administrator, submit any additional information deemed necessary by said administrator.
(3)
Temporary signs. If a temporary sign which does not require a permit is not intended to be left in place for a period to exceed six months, the owner may deposit a as established by the City with the Zoning Administrator in lieu of the usual permit fee. If the sign is removed by the owner before the first day of the seventh month, the deposit shall be refunded in full; if not, the deposit shall be forfeited, and the Zoning Administrator shall remove said sign.
(Code 2003, § 8-3116; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 11-6)
