Chapter 28 - LAW ENFORCEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Law enforcement officers and agencies generally, O.C.G.A. § 35-1-1 et seq.; Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act, O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq.

Sec. 28-1. - Personnel.
The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and police officers, all of whom shall be uniformed as the Council may direct, and shall also, except when otherwise directed by the Chief of Police, wear a badge designating their official position, which badge shall be worn open to the view of the public.
(Code 2003, § 3-1001)
Sec. 28-2. - Oath of Chief of Police.
Before entering upon the discharge of the duties of his office, the Chief of Police shall take and subscribe the following oath:
"I ___________, do solemnly swear that I will, to the best of my skill and power, perform all the duties of the Office of Chief of Police of the City, without favor or affection and will account for and pay to the Clerk all money of the City that may come into my hands as such, so help me God."
(Code 2003, § 3-1003)
Sec. 28-3. - Appointment of Chief of Police, etc.
It shall be the duty of the Council, immediately upon its election and qualification, and at its meeting in January following the year of its election and qualification, and at any other time at regular or called meetings when the office of Chief of Police or police officers shall for any cause become vacant to appoint a Chief of Police who shall hold his office for one year, unless sooner removed with or without cause, by the Council. The Council may when necessary and advisable, elect or appoint from time to time Deputy Marshals, police officers or watchperson, subject to removal from office at their pleasure. In case of emergency special police officers may be appointed by the Mayor, whose term of office shall expire with the emergency.
(Code 2003, § 3-1004)
Sec. 28-4. - Oath of police officers.
Each police officer shall, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of office, take and subscribe before the Mayor or Magistrate the following oath:
"I, ___________, do solemnly swear that I will, to the best of my skill and power, perform all my duties as police officer of the City, without favor or affection, and will faithfully report all violations of laws and ordinances that may come to my knowledge, so help me God."
(Code 2003, § 3-1006)
Sec. 28-5. - Compensation of police.
The Chief of Police and police officers shall receive for their services such compensation as the Council shall provide by resolution or ordinance for that purpose.
(Code 2003, § 3-1007)
Sec. 28-6. - City property controlled by Chief of Police.
The Chief of Police shall have control of the City Hall as well as all other City property, shall provide for the care and protection of the same, and shall, when called upon by the Council, report the condition of the property in his keeping and control, and account to the City for the same.
(Code 2003, § 3-1008)
Sec. 28-7. - Supervision by Chief of Police.
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to superintend and direct all officers and persons who may be placed by the Mayor or Council under the Chief of Police for the preservation of the peace, good order, safety and tranquility of the City, and see that they faithfully and punctually discharge their duties.
(Code 2003, § 3-1011)
Sec. 28-8. - Period of service.
The Chief of Police shall fix the period of service of each police officer so as to apportion the labor among them as nearly equal as possible. The Chief of Police and all police officers, when not on duty, shall be subject to be called, in case of emergency, by a police officer on duty, and when so called it shall be their duty to respond at once.
(Code 2003, § 3-1012)
Sec. 28-9. - Trials, writs, summonses, etc.
The Chief of Police or designee shall attend all trials before the Municipal Court, execute all warrants properly issued and placed with the Chief of Police for execution, and serve all summonses, subpoenas, citations, rules or notices of all kinds whatever, placed in the Chief's hands by the Mayor.
(Code 2003, § 3-1013)
Sec. 28-10. - Fines and executions.
The Chief of Police or designee shall collect all fines and costs imposed by the Mayor, levy all executions placed in his hands by the Clerk, and immediately pay over such money collected to the Clerk, taking therefor the Clerk's receipt and filing same with the Clerk, who shall credit his account with the amount of the receipt, and file the same as vouchers to the credit of the Clerk.
(Code 2003, § 3-1014)
Sec. 28-11. - Collection of executions.
All executions shall be collected by the Chief of Police by levy, advertisement and sale as provided in this Code or by law in cases of executions for taxes.
(Code 2003, § 3-1017)
Sec. 28-12. - Abatement of nuisances.
The Chief of Police shall abate and remove or cause to be abated and removed all nuisances from about the City as provided by law.
(Code 2003, § 3-1018)
Sec. 28-13. - Preservation of order.
The Chief of Police and police officers shall preserve order in the City; suppress all affrays, public outbreaks and riots, quell all disturbances, disperse all illegal assemblages of persons, arrest all drunken, disorderly or riotous persons, who are disturbing the peace and quiet of the City, and commit them to the jail, or bring them before the Mayor to be dealt with as the evidence produced shall warrant; patrol the City at night; report all violations of law and ordinances of the City that may come in any way to their knowledge; and generally shall perform all acts required of them by any ordinance and shall arrest persons and offenders under the same rules and regulations governing arrests under the general State law for offenses against the State.
(Code 2003, § 3-1019)
State Law reference— Arrest, O.C.G.A. § 17-4-1 et seq.
Sec. 28-14. - Marshal's sales.
The Marshal, in cases of levy of any execution placed in the Marshal's hands by the Clerk, which has been issued thereby for any claim of the City officials, shall advertise such property as may be levied upon and sell same to the highest bidder for cash.
(Code 2003, § 3-1022)
State Law reference— Sales, how advertised, O.C.G.A. § 9-13-140; where and when sales held, O.C.G.A. § 9-13-161; sale of property for municipal taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-359.
Sec. 28-15. - Police officer acting as Marshal.
In the absence or sickness of the Marshal, a police officer shall perform the Marshal's duties, and shall be subject to the same penalties, forfeitures and regulations as the Marshal.
(Code 2003, § 3-1023)
Sec. 28-16. - Report of new businesses.
The Chief of Police shall report to the Clerk the names of all persons, firms or corporations within the limits of the City that have commenced to operate within the City any business, profession or calling.
(Code 2003, § 3-1024)
Sec. 28-17. - Outside employment.
(a)
Generally. The nature of law enforcement requires Department employees to have the ability to work irregular duty schedules which are subject to change in meeting deployment needs. Additionally, it is necessary that an employee have adequate rest to be alert during his tour of duty. For these reasons, and because certain occupations inherently conflict with an employee's primary responsibility to the Department, the Department may impose conditions on outside employment or may prohibit it altogether. Determination of the degree of limitation will be based upon the interest of the Department in furthering professionalization, protection of the reputation of the employee and the Department, and ensuring that the Department receives full and faithful service in return for employment.
(b)
Policy. Members of the City Police Department may engage in off-duty employment subject to the following limitations:
(1)
Such employment shall not interfere with the member's employment with the Department.
(2)
Members shall submit a written request for off-duty employment to the Chief, whose approval must be granted prior to engaging in such employment.
(3)
Members shall not engage in any employment or business involving:
a.
The sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages;
b.
Bail bond agencies;
c.
Private guard agencies;
d.
Collection agencies;
e.
Attorneys.
(4)
Approval of other employment may be denied where it appears to the Chief that the outside employment might:
a.
Render the member unavailable during an emergency;
b.
Physically or mentally exhaust the member to the point that his performance may be affected;
c.
Require that any special consideration be given to scheduling of the member's regular duty hours;
d.
Bring the Department or the member into disrepute or impair the operation or efficiency of the Department or member;
e.
Involve more than 20 hours of work each week.
(5)
No employee will engage in any type of outside employment which may raise the question of honesty, respect, dignity, or loyalty to the Department or to the laws which the employee is to uphold.
(6)
Any employee engaged in outside employment will be expected and required to conduct in a manner becoming of an officer. Any conduct during outside employment which if it occurred during duty status hours, would result in disciplinary action, could result in termination of the outside employment by the employee involved.
(7)
The Chief of Police reserves the right to require any employee to discontinue any outside employment if, in his opinion, the outside employment is unsatisfactory. Failure to comply with the Chief's request will result in disciplinary action.
(Code 2003, § 3-1025; Mo. of 3-1-1988)
Sec. 28-18. - Police auxiliary.
(a)
Purpose. This section establishes an auxiliary police unit and sets guidelines for its operation. The auxiliary unit's mission is to assist and reinforce the full-time police force at times when additional police officers are needed, to promote community crime prevention projects, and to meet other needs of the City Police Department.
(b)
Organization. The Ocilla Police Auxiliary (O.P.A.) shall consist of two divisions, the patrol division and the communications division. The patrol division shall be made up of individuals who are Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council (P.O.S.T.) certified police officers. The communication division will be made up of persons who have had previous experience as police dispatchers. The Chief of Police may, in his discretion, organize the auxiliary into squads or other organizational units, and appoint ranking officers to command these units. The Chief may activate any one or more of the auxiliary officers to meet the needs of the City and its Police Department.
(c)
General rules.
(1)
Status of employment. Members of the O.P.A. are considered "irregular employees," as defined in Section 40-6, the City personnel management plan. This section states, "Irregular employees are those who are hired on a year-round basis and are subject to call to fill [in] occasionally for regular employees or during peak workload periods." Members of the O.P.A. are hired by, and work at the pleasure of, the Chief of Police.
(2)
Uniform.
a.
Each auxiliary police officer shall be issued a uniform, consisting of at least one shirt, and one pair of trousers to be worn while on duty. This uniform shall conform with the Department's uniform policy.
b.
O.P.A. officers will provide their own weapon and gun leather, and they must be of a type approved by the Chief.
(3)
Call-up procedures.
a.
Each member will keep his home and work phone number on file at the Police Department.
b.
When called-up to duty, members will be notified as far in advance as possible of the dates and times that they are needed to work.
c.
In an emergency, advance notice may not be possible. Auxiliary officers will be required to report to duty within 30 minutes in emergency situations.
d.
When activated, members of the auxiliary will be governed by the same laws, rules, regulations, general orders, and policies governing full-time members of the City Police Department.
(4)
Training. Auxiliary officers will be required to attend training as instructed by the Chief of Police. Most training be at no cost to the officer, and there is no provision for reimbursement of an officer's personal expenses while attending training (meals, gasoline, etc.).
(5)
Pay and benefits.
a.
Individual members of the O.P.A. will be paid at a rate set by the Chief of Police, and approved by the Mayor.
b.
Members will be covered by worker's compensation while on the job.
c.
Members will not be eligible for coverage under the City's group insurance policy.
(Code 2003, § 3-1026; Mo. of 12-6-1988)
