ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 54-1. - Short title.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Zoning Ordinance for the City of Ocilla, Georgia."
(Code 2003, § 8-3003; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 1-3)
Sec. 54-2. - Jurisdiction.
This chapter shall govern the use of all land and the developments thereof within the corporate limits of the City.
(Code 2003, § 8-3004; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 1-4)
Sec. 54-3. - Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter shall be to promote the proper location, height, bulk, number of stories and size of open spaces, the density and distribution of population, and the uses of building, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, conservation, sanitation, protection against floods, public activities, and other purposes so as to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to promote the public health and the general welfare, to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population, to prevent urban sprawl; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements; to promote desirable living conditions and the sustained stability of neighborhoods; to protect property against blight and depreciation; to secure economy in governmental expenditures; to conserve the value of buildings and to encourage the most appropriate use of land, buildings, and structures throughout the City; and for other purposes.
(Code 2003, § 8-3005; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 1-5)
Sec. 54-4. - Interpretation of certain terms and words; definitions.
(a)
The term "lot" includes the term "plot" or "parcel." The term "building" includes the term "structure." The term "used" or "occupied," as applied to any land or building, shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied."
(b)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Accessory building means a detached, subordinate structure, the use of which is clearly incidental to, customarily associated with, and related to the principal structure or use of the land; and which is located on the same lot as the principal structure or use, including residential swimming pools.
Administrator, zoning, means the person, officer, or official and an authorized representative, whom the City Council has designated as its agent for the administration of this chapter. (See Section 54-58.)
Adult entertainment means performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are characterized by the display or exposure of specified anatomical areas.
Adult entertainment establishments means any commercial establishment, which has as its primary purposes or business the offer for sale of any book, publication, or film which depicts nudity, or sexual conduct or engages in services such as bath houses, massage parlors, wrestling parlors or like activity, including a night club, restaurant, cabaret, lounge or other establishment which features adult entertainment.
Agriculture means the production, keeping or maintenance, for sale, lease or personal use, of plants and animals useful to man, including, but not limited to, forages and sod crops, grains and seed crops; dairy animals and dairy products, poultry and poultry products; livestock, including beef cattle, sheep, swine, horses, ponies, mules, goats, or any mutations or hybrids thereof, including the breeding and grazing of any or all such animals; bees and apiary products, fur animals; trees and forest products; fruits of all kinds, including grapes, nuts and berries; vegetables; nursery, floral, ornamental and greenhouse products; or lands devoted to a soil conservation or forestry management program. Retail selling of products raised on the premises shall be considered a normal accessory activity, provided that space adequate for the parking of customer's vehicles shall be provided off the public right-of-way.
Ambulatory, in respect to a person, means the ability to move from place to place by walking, either unaided or aided by prosthesis, brace, crutches or handrails, or by propelling a wheelchair; and can conceive an emergency situation or condition, whether caused by fire or otherwise and escape without human assistance, using the normal means of egress.
Boardinghouse or roominghouse means a building dedicated to the lodging or feeding or both of five or more nontransient persons or separate families as defined herein for compensation.
Buffer area or buffer strip means that portion of a given lot, not covered by buildings, pavement, parking, access and service areas, established as landscaped open space for the purposes of screening and separating properties with incompatible land uses, the width of which is measured from the common property line and extends the developed portion of the common property line. A buffer consists of trees, shrubs, and other natural vegetation undisturbed by grading or site development and replanted where sparsely vegetated or where disturbed for approved access and utility crossings.
Building means any structure, except a manufactured home or trailer, which has a roof and which is for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals, or property of any kind.
Building height means the vertical distance of a building measured from the average elevation of the finished lot grade along the front of the building to the highest point of the building.
Care home means an orphanage, rest home, nursing home, convalescent home, or similar use established to render domiciliary care, but not including facilities for the care of mental patients, alcoholics, drug addicts and not including nursery schools.
Church means a building in which persons regularly assemble for religious worship intended primarily for purposes connected with such worship, or for propagating a particular form of religious belief.
Club or lodge, private, means an incorporated or unincorporated association for civic, social, cultural, religious, fraternal, literary, political, recreational, or like activities, operated for the benefit of its members and not open to the general public.
Comprehensive Plan means the 2015 Greater Irwin Comprehensive Plan, as duly adopted and subsequently amended by the Mayor and Council of Ocilla. This Plan includes future land use plans and short-term work programs for each local government.
Condominium means a building containing three or more individually owned dwelling units and related, jointly owned, common areas as defined by the laws of the State.
Curb cut means the providing of ingress and/or egress between property and an abutting public street.
Density means the overall intensity of land use for the total project. When referring to residential areas, density is defined as the number of housing units permitted per acre in the respective zoning district involved in accordance with the terms of this zoning ordinance or as authorized under the development standards of this chapter.
District, within the concept of zoning, means a delineated section of the City for which the zoning regulations governing the use of buildings and premises, the height of buildings, the size of yards and the intensity of use are uniform.
Dwelling, manufactured home, means a detached structure transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling unit with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein. For the purposes of the administration of this chapter, the term "manufactured home" shall not be interpreted to include mobile homes.
Dwelling, mobile home, means a manufactured home built before June 15, 1976. They do not meet current building codes.
Dwelling, multifamily, means a building either designed, constructed, altered, or used for more than two adjoining dwelling units, with each dwelling unit having a party wall or party floor connecting it to at least one other dwelling unit in the building. This includes apartments, condominiums, or any other type of multifamily structure.
Dwelling, single-family, means a detached building used and either designed or constructed for one dwelling unit.
Dwelling, single-family attached, means one of a series of two or more single-family dwelling units built on separate lots attached to another dwelling unit on an adjoining lot by a common party wall.
Dwelling, two-family orduplex, means a building either designed, constructed, altered, or used for two adjoining dwelling units that are connected by a fire rated common wall and/or if two stories in height by a fire rated common floor.
Dwelling unit means an enclosure of one or more rooms, including kitchen, and bathroom facilities, designed or constructed as a unit for residential occupancy by one family.
Family means one or more persons occupying premises and living as a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a boardinghouse, lodginghouse, hotel, or fraternity or sorority house.
Farm means a tract of land at least ten acres in size devoted to agricultural purposes.
Flea market means an outdoor and/or indoor facility established for the purpose of selling at retail such new or used items as household goods, tools, crafts or any other combination of new or used goods. These markets, sales and displays are those that occur continuously or frequently, and specifically more than two times per year, normally at a fixed location where a proprietor, partnership, or corporation leases to vendors a booth, commercial staff or designated area from which the vendor markets goods.
Floor area, gross, means the total number of square feet of floor area in a building determined by horizontal measurements between the exterior faces of walls, excluding basement areas, attic, porches, carports, and garages.
Garden, private, means a noncommercial private garden which is an accessory use to the primary use of the zoning district. The primary use must be present at the same location as the garden in any zoning district with the exception of agricultural zoning districts.
Good moral character means a person is of good moral character if that person has not been convicted of a drug-related or alcohol-related felony or sex-related crime in the past five years.
Home occupation means an occupation for gain or support customarily conducted on the premises by a person or family residing therein. Home occupations are governed by the requirements of Sections 54-314 and 54-315.
Hospital means any institution receiving in-patients, or a public institution receiving out-patients, and authorized under Georgia law to render medical, surgical, and/or obstetrical care. The term "hospital" shall include a sanitarium for the treatment and care of senile psychotics or drug addicts, but shall not include office facilities for the private practice of medicine or dentistry.
Industrialized buildings means certain manufactured buildings which are regulated by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs. Georgia law defines an industrialized building as "any structure or component thereof which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof." Industrialized buildings are constructed and regulated in accordance with the Industrialized Buildings Act, O.C.G.A. title 8, ch. 2, art. 2, pt. 1 (O.C.G.A. § 8-2-110 et seq.). An industrialized building must meet all requirements of the district in which it is located. Industrialized buildings designed for residential uses are often referred to as "modular homes." For the purposes of enforcement of this chapter, industrialized residential homes shall be subject to the same standards as site built homes.
Junkyard means use of property for outdoor storage, keeping, abandonment, sale, or resale of junk including scrap metal, rags, paper or other scrap materials, used lumber, salvaged house wrecking, and structural steel materials and equipment, or for the dismantling, demolition, or abandonment of automobiles or other vehicles or machinery or parts thereof. For the purposes of enforcement of this chapter, junkyard means anywhere three or more vehicles not in running condition, or the parts thereof, or household appliances are stored in the open or in open buildings. Buffers are required for all junkyards. (See Section 54-319.)
Kennel means any location where boarding, caring for, and keeping of more than a total of three dogs or cats, or other small animals or combination thereof (except litters of animals of not more than six months of age) is carried on for compensation, and also raising, breeding, caring for, or boarding of dogs, cats, or other small animals for commercial purposes.
Kennel, noncommercial, means any location where the boarding, caring for and keeping of more than three but not more than ten dogs or cats or other small animals or combination thereof (except litters of animals of not more than six months of age) is carried on, not for commercial purposes, but as a hobby such as the raising of show and hunting dogs.
Licensed day care center means a day care center licensed by the State, the City, and/or the County that provides care, training, education, custody, treatment or supervision for children under 14 years of age, where such children are not related by blood, marriage or adoption to an owner or operator of the facility.
Lot means a lot of record, held in a single ownership by one person, or in common ownership by more than one, which has both lot area and lot dimensions equal to or greater than the lot width and lot area requirements established by this chapter for the zoning district in which such tract of land is located and for the use proposed for the tract of land.
Lot, corner, means a lot having frontage on two or more public streets at their intersection.
Lot, through, means a lot other than a corner lot, having frontage on more than one street; or a corner lot having frontage on three or more streets.
Lot of record means a lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Irwin County, or a parcel described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this chapter.
Lot width means the distance between the side lot lines, measured along the front yard setback line as established by this chapter, or if no setback line is established, the horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured along the street right-of-way line.
Manufactured housing park means an area, under single ownership and not subdivided into customary lots planned for individual ownership, containing three or more manufactured homes used as living facilities having a defined space, or an area containing three or more spaces designed or intended for parking of manufactured homes to be used as living facilities for rent or lease.
Minor means any person under 18 years of age.
Newspaper or periodical production, sales, and distribution means the operation of newspaper or periodical business including the production, sales, and distribution thereof, including all necessary presswork. Such term includes but is broader than newspaper or periodical publishing.
Newspaper or periodical publishing. The term "newspaper or periodical publishing" is narrower in scope than newspaper or periodical production, sales and distribution. The term "newspaper or periodical publishing" does not include presswork, sales or distribution, and is limited to the composition, layout and nonpresswork printing of a newspaper or periodical.
Nightclub (lounge) means a place of entertainment open at night, usually serving food and alcoholic beverages providing music and space for dancing.
Nonconforming use means a building, structure, or use of land existing at the time of the enactment of this chapter which does not conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located.
Nursery school means an agency, organization, or individual providing daytime care of six or more children not related by blood or marriage or not the legal wards or foster children of the attendant adult.
Open space means that required portion of a lot at ground level, unoccupied by enclosed buildings and available to all occupants of the project. This space shall not be devoted to driveways or off-street parking but shall be usable for green space, recreational use and other leisure activities normally carried on outdoors.
Operator means the manager or other person principally in charge of an adult entertainment establishment.
Owner means:
(1)
If a sole proprietorship, the proprietor;
(2)
If a partnership, all partners (general and limited);
(3)
If a corporation, all officers, directors and persons holding at least ten percent of the outstanding shares.
Personal care home means a building or group of buildings, a facility or place in which is provided two or more beds and other facilities and services, including room, meals and personal care for nonfamily ambulatory adults for compensation.
Congregate personal care home means a home for adults which offers care to 16 or more persons.
Family personal care home means a home for adults in a family-type residence, noninstitutional in character, which offers care to two through six persons.
Group personal care home means a home for adult persons in a residence or other type building, noninstitutional in character, which offers care to seven through 15 persons.
Planning Advisory Commission, as utilized in this chapter, means the Ocilla/Irwin County Planning Advisory Commission as duly appointed by the member governments of the County.
Principal building means the building containing or to contain the principal use of a lot.
Principal use means the principal purpose for which a lot or the main building thereon is designed, arranged, or intended, and for which it is or may be used, occupied, or maintained.
Public street means right-of-way dedicated to the City, County, State or federal government or owned by the City, County, State or federal government for public street purposes.
Residential, pertaining to the use of land, means premises such as homes, townhomes, patio homes, manufactured homes, duplexes, condominiums, apartment complexes, or single room rental units, which contain habitable rooms for nontransient occupancy and which are designed primarily for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating therein.
School means a facility where persons regularly assemble for the purpose of instruction or education including any playgrounds, stadiums, or other structures and grounds used in conjunction therewith. This shall include, but not be limited to, public and private schools used for primary, secondary, or post-secondary education.
Setback means the shortest distance between the centerline of a street and the principal building or structure on a lot.
Shopping center means two or more commercial establishments planned and managed as a single unit with off-street parking and loading facilities provided on the property.
Sign means any surface, fabric, or device bearing lettered, pictorial, or sculptured matter designed to convey information visually and exposed to public view; or any structure (including billboard or poster panel) designed to carry the above visual information.
Advertising incidental use sign means a sign which directs attention to a business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered as a minor and incidental activity upon the premises where the sign is displayed.
Advertising separate use sign means a sign which directs attention to a business, commodity, service, or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered only elsewhere than upon the premises where the sign is displayed.
Bulletin board means a sign used to announce meetings or programs to be held on the premises of a church, community recreation center, school, auditorium, library, museum, or similar noncommercial places of public assembly.
Identification sign means a sign used to identify only the name of the individual, family, organization, or enterprise occupying the premises.
Point of business sign means a sign which directs attention to a business, profession, or industry located upon the premises where the sign is displayed, to type of products sold, manufactured, or assembled, and/or to service or entertainment offered on said premises, but not a sign pertaining to the preceding if such activity is only minor and incidental to the principal use of the premises.
Special exception means a special exception is a use which within certain districts specified by this chapter is not permitted as a matter of right but may be permitted within these districts by the City Council after the Planning Advisory Commission and City Council have:
(1)
Reviewed the proposed site plans for the use, its location within the City, its arrangement and design, its relationship to neighboring property and other conditions peculiar to the particular proposal which would determine its desirability or undesirability;
(2)
Found the proposal not to be contrary to the intent of this chapter; and
(3)
Approved the use as specified.
Specified anatomical areas means and includes any of the following:
(1)
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region; buttock; or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola.
(2)
Human male genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
Street means a thoroughfare which affords traffic circulation and principal means of access to abutting property, including avenue, place, way, drive, lane, boulevard, highway, road, and any other thoroughfare except an alley.
Private street means a street not so accepted as a public street.
Public street means a street accepted by dedication or otherwise by the City Council.
Structure means anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on or in the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among other things, structures include buildings, manufactured homes, billboards, swimming pools, and fallout shelters but does not include walls or fences.
Tourist home means a dwelling in which sleeping accommodations are provided or offered to transient visitors for compensation.
Trailer, travel type, means a vehicular portable structure designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation, and vacation uses, which is identified on the unit by the manufacturer as a "camper" or "travel" trailer.
Variance means a relaxation of the dimensional and/or development standards of the zoning ordinance that will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the intentional actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
Yard, front, means that area of a lot lying between the abutting street right-of-way line and the principal building of the lot and extending across the front of a lot from side lot line to side lot line.
Yard, rear, means that area of a lot extending across the rear of a lot from side lot line to side lot line and lying between the rear lot line and the principal building on the lot.
Yard, side, means that area of a lot between the side lot line and the principal building on the lot extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
(Code 2003, §§ 8-3011, 8-3012; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 2)
Sec. 54-5. - Interpretation and application.
In interpreting and applying this chapter, the requirements contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements necessary to carry out the purpose of this chapter. Except as hereinafter provided, this chapter shall not be deemed to interfere with, abrogate, annul, or otherwise affect in any manner whatsoever any easements, covenants, or otherwise agreements between parties. Whenever the provisions of this chapter impose greater restrictions upon the use of land or buildings, or upon the height of buildings, or require a larger percentage of a lot to be left unoccupied than the provisions of other ordinances, rules, regulations or permits, or any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties, then the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Code 2003, § 8-3021; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-1)
Sec. 54-6. - Zoning affects all land and buildings.
No buildings, structures, or land shall be used or occupied; and no building, structure, or part thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, enlarged, or structurally altered unless in conformity with the regulations of this chapter.
(Code 2003, § 8-3022; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-2)
Sec. 54-7. - Every use must be upon a lot.
No building or structure may be erected or use established unless upon a lot as defined by this chapter except as provided in Section 54-25.
(Code 2003, § 8-3023; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-3)
Sec. 54-8. - Only one principal building per lot.
Except as herein provided (see Sections 54-316 through 54-318), there shall be no more than one principal building or structure upon any lot in any residential district.
(Code 2003, § 8-3024; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-4)
Sec. 54-9. - Open space not to be encroached upon.
No open space shall be encroached upon or reduced in any manner except in conformity to the yard, setback, off-street parking space requirements, and such other regulations required by this chapter for the district in which such building is located. Shrubbery, driveways, retaining walls, fences, curbs, and planted buffer strips shall be interpreted not to be encroachments of yards (see Section 54-28).
(Code 2003, § 8-3025; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-5)
Sec. 54-10. - Required open space may not be used by another building.
No part of any yard, other open space, or off-street parking or loading space required in connection with any building, structure, or use by this chapter shall be considered to be part of a required yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or loading space for any other building, structure, or use except as provided in Section 54-285.
(Code 2003, § 8-3026; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-6)
Sec. 54-11. - Reduction of yards or lot area.
Except as provided in Section 54-26, no lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter, February 7, 2000, shall be reduced, divided, or changed so as to produce a tract of land which does not comply with the minimum dimension or area requirements of this chapter for the district in which it is located unless said reduction or division is necessary to provide land that is needed and accepted for public use.
(Code 2003, § 8-3027; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-7)
Sec. 54-12. - Encroachment on public rights-of-way.
No building, structure, service area, or required off-street parking and loading facility, except driveways, shall be permitted to encroach on public rights-of-way.
(Code 2003, § 8-3028; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-8)
Sec. 54-13. - Location of accessory buildings or uses.
Accessory buildings on residential lots, when located within a front or side yard, shall be located no closer to property lines than would be allowed for a principal building. Within a rear yard, an accessory building on a residential lot shall be located at least five feet from all rear property lines, except that in the case of corner lots, accessory buildings shall be set back from the centerline of an abutting street right-of-way a distance equal to three-fourths the front yard setback established for the zoning district in which the accessory buildings are located. In the case of a through lot (see Section 54-15) accessory buildings shall conform to front yard setbacks on both streets. Accessory buildings or uses on nonresidential lots shall comply with front, side, and rear yard requirements established for the zoning district in which such buildings or uses are located.
(1)
Accessory building on separate lot. An accessory building may be permitted, as a special exception by the City Council on a separate lot from the lot of the principal building, provided that:
a.
The lot upon which the accessory building is to be located shall be within 400 feet of the principal use;
b.
All requirements, including use restrictions, established for the zoning district in which such accessory building is to be located shall be complied with;
c.
Any structure or building erected shall meet the requirements of the Southern Standard Building Code and shall be approved by the Building Inspector.
In addition to the above requirements, the City Council may require design features such as buffer strips, screening, etc., as may be found necessary to protect the purposes of this chapter.
(2)
Swimming pools. Swimming pools accessory to residences or commercial uses shall be enclosed by a steel mesh security fence or other substantial building material affording equal or better access control. Said fence shall have a minimum height of four feet.
(3)
Separation from principal use. Any accessory building of more than eight feet in height shall be located at least ten feet from the principal building.
(Code 2003, § 8-3029; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-9)
Sec. 54-14. - Every lot shall abut a street.
No building shall be erected on a lot which does not abut an open public street.
(Code 2003, § 8-3030; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-10)
Sec. 54-15. - Lots with multiple frontage.
In the case of a corner lot, side yard setback requirements from the centerline of the street right-of-way shall equal to 75 percent of that required for the front yard setback for the respective zoning district. On a corner lot where the main entrance into a residence is facing a side yard, it shall be permissible for purposes of this chapter to interpret the residence to be fronting on the street other than that street which said entrance faces, and side and rear yard requirements may be provided accordingly. If a building is constructed on a through lot having frontage on two or more roads not at an intersection, a setback from each road shall be provided equal to the front yard requirement for the district in which the lot is located.
(Code 2003, § 8-3031; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-11)
Sec. 54-16. - Visibility at intersections.
On corner lots within all zoning districts, no fence, shrubbery or other obstruction to the traffic sight vision, except utility poles or light or sign standards, shall exceed a height of three feet within a triangular area formed by the intersection of the right-of-way lines of two streets or a street intersection with a railroad right-of-way line, and a diagonal line which intersects the right-of-way lines at two points, each 20 feet distance from the intersection of the right-of-way lines, or, in the case of a rounded corner, from the point of intersection of their tangents; provided, however, signs, lights, or similar objects which are totally located at least 12 feet above the finished grade shall be permitted.
(Code 2003, § 8-3032; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-12)
Sec. 54-17. - Uses prohibited.
If either a use or class of use is not specifically indicated as being permitted in a district, either as a matter of right, or as a special exception, then such use, class of use, or structures for such uses shall be prohibited in such district.
(Code 2003, § 8-3033; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-13)
Sec. 54-18. - Fallout and/or storm shelters.
(a)
Fallout and/or storm shelters are permitted as principal or accessory uses in any district, subject to the yard requirements of the district. Shelters shall be maintained so as not to become a hazard or blight to the community.
(b)
The City Council may permit, as a special exception, construction of joint shelters by two or more property owners. Where such joint shelters are permitted, the City Council may waive the side and rear yard setback requirements on the property or properties directly involved in order to permit practical and efficient location and construction; provided, however, that side and rear yard requirements shall be met where property involved in a joint proposal abuts or adjoins property not included in the proposal.
(Code 2003, § 8-3034; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-14)
Sec. 54-19. - Zoning to apply when lot is divided by district boundary line.
In the event that a district boundary line on the zoning map divides a lot of record held in one ownership on the date of passage of this chapter, each part of the lot so divided shall be used in conformity with the regulations established by this chapter for the district in which such parcel is located; except, however, that if the property owner of such a lot so desires, the owner may extend a use allowed on either portion of said lot 50 feet beyond the district boundary line in accordance with setbacks and yard requirements of the district into which the owner is encroaching.
(Code 2003, § 8-3035; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-15)
Sec. 54-20. - Height limitations of walls and fences.
Within any residential district, no wall or fence shall exceed eight feet in height within or along a boundary of a rear or side yard. Within the front yard, all fences shall have a height limit of four feet.
(Code 2003, § 8-3036; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-16)
Sec. 54-21. - Required buffers in N-C, G-B, WLI, and H-I Districts.
In a N-C, G-B, WLI, and H-I zoning district, where a lot abuts any residential district, a six-foot-wide buffer the entire length of the lot abutting the residential property shall be provided with screening as specified in Section 54-23. Off-street parking associated with such uses shall be governed by this same provision.
(Code 2003, § 8-3037; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-17)
Sec. 54-22. - Screening of service areas within 150 feet of public street.
Any service area, loading area, refuse, or storage area between a principal building and a public street being visible from said street and lying within 150 feet of said street shall be screened from view from the public street as specified in Section 54-23.
(Code 2003, § 8-3038; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-18)
Sec. 54-23. - Screening required.
Wherever screening is required by this chapter, a durable masonry wall, or solid fence and hedge of sufficient opacity to provide a visual blind, designed to be compatible with the character of adjoining properties, shall be provided and maintained by the owner and any successors and assigns. Such fences and walls shall be at least six feet in height, but no greater than eight feet in height, measured from the ground along the common lot line of the adjoining properties. Hedges or comparable natural plantings shall be of such variety that an average height of at least six feet could be expected by normal growth within no later than three years from the time of planting. The owner/developer shall install the required screening prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy. Occupancy will not be allowed until the screening is completed as a part of the normal developmental requirements.
(Code 2003, § 8-3039; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-19)
Sec. 54-24. - Side and rear yards not required next to railroad.
Within any nonresidential district, side yards and rear yards shall not be required adjacent to railroad rights-of-way.
(Code 2003, § 8-3040; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-20)
Sec. 54-25. - Substandard lots of record.
Any lot of record existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter, February 7, 2000, which has an area or a width which is less than that required by this chapter may be used as a building site for a structure or use permitted in that zone; provided, however, that the same yard, setback, open space, and other dimensional requirements are met that would be required for a standard lot, except as stipulated in Section 54-29.
(Code 2003, § 8-3041; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-21)
Sec. 54-26. - Permitted modification of setback requirement.
When a building is proposed on a lot and when on either or both lots which adjoin such lot at the street right-of-way line there exists a principal building which does not conform to the setback requirements of this chapter, the required setback for such building shall be as follows:
(1)
Where only one said adjoining lot contains a principal building with a nonconforming setback the setback shall be the computed average of the normal setback requirement with the nonconforming setback; or
(2)
Where both adjoining lots contain a principal building each with a nonconforming setback, the minimum setback shall be the computed average of the two nonconforming setbacks.
(Code 2003, § 8-3042; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-22)
Sec. 54-27. - Structures permitted above the height limit.
The height limits of this chapter shall not apply to a church spire, belfry, cupola, dome, or ornamental tower not intended for human occupancy, monument, water tower, observation tower, transmission tower, chimney, smokestack, conveyor, flagpole, radio or television tower, mast or aerial, parapet wall not extending more than four feet above the roof line of the building, and necessary mechanical appurtenances. (See Section 54-31.)
(Code 2003, § 8-3043; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-23)
Sec. 54-28. - Permitted encroachments of yards and setbacks.
Architectural features such as cornices, eaves, steps, gutters, and fire escapes may project not more than three feet beyond any required setback line, except where such projections would obstruct driveways which are or may be used for access for service and/or emergency vehicles; provided, however, that in the case of automobile service stations, motels, and similar uses which serve the motoring public, canopies shall be allowed over a driveway or walkways within the front yard not to extend from the principal building to a point any closer than 15 feet from the street right-of-way line.
(Code 2003, § 8-3044; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-24)
Sec. 54-29. - Modification of side yard requirements.
When a lot of record has a width less than the frontage required in the district in which it is located, then the Zoning Administrator shall be authorized to reduce the side yard requirements for such lot; provided, however, that there shall not be less than an eight-foot side yard.
(Code 2003, § 8-3045; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-25)
Sec. 54-30. - Zoning of annexed area.
Areas annexed to the City subsequent to the adoption of this chapter, February 7, 2000, shall be subject to this chapter as is all land area currently located in the corporate limits of the City. It is required that the annexation petition be accompanied by the petitioner's request for rezoning, and consideration of such property for initial City zoning designation shall be subject to the normal amendatory requirements of this chapter, including the normal public hearing requirements. When property is annexed into the corporate limits of the City, pursuant to action of the City Council, it shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to ensure compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Code 2003, § 8-3046; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-26)
Sec. 54-31. - Variances to height requirements.
Chimneys, water, fire, radio and television towers, church spires, domes, cupolas, stage towers, and scenery lofts, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, smokestacks, flag poles, parapet walls, silos, granaries, windmills, and similar structures and their necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected above the height limits herein established after a proper variance has been obtained from the Zoning Board of Appeals, except within the two-mile radius of the Fitzgerald/Ben Hill County Airport shall conform to the height requirement of its district unless a variance for a greater height is approved by the zoning board appeals of the County. Any such approval of a greater height shall be in accord with the flight approach zone maps on file with the Zoning Administrator of Fitzgerald and Ben Hill County.
(Code 2003, § 8-3047; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-27)
Sec. 54-32. - Prohibited uses in all residential districts.
(a)
It shall be a prohibited use in all residentially zoned districts and residential lots to park or store in the open, wrecked or junked vehicles, power driven construction equipment, used lumber, metal or rubbish, or any other miscellaneous scrap or salvageable material in quantity.
(b)
Tractor-trailer combinations, tractors or trailers shall not be placed or stored in residentially zoned districts.
(c)
Commercial kennels are prohibited in residential districts.
(d)
Wrecked or junked vehicles in open buildings are prohibited in residential districts.
(Code 2003, § 8-3048; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-28)
Sec. 54-33. - Recreational vehicles.
Recreational vehicles shall not be utilized as a permanent dwelling in any zoning district. Occupancy exceeding 30 days shall be considered permanent.
(Code 2003, § 8-3049; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-29)
Sec. 54-34. - Mobile homes.
No new permit shall be issued for mobile homes older than ten years old, that is not currently permitted by the City and/or shall have a fair market value of $10,000.00 or more, as estimated by proper officers of the tax assessor's office of the County, shall be permitted within the corporate limits of Ocilla, Georgia. Only manufactured homes constructed to the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards governed by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, as amended, 42 USC 5401 et seq. shall be permitted within the City corporate limits.
(Code 2003, § 8-3050; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 3-30; Ord. of 4-6-2004; Ord. of 5-5-2009 )
Secs. 54-35—54-56. - Reserved.
