Chapter 26 - HUMAN RIGHTS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 26-1—26-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE FOR DISABLED PERSONS

Sec. 26-19. - Statement of policy; purpose.
(a)
It is the policy of the City to provide equal opportunity to participate in all government supported services, programs, activities and employment without regard to age, sex, race, color, national origin, creed or disability.
(b)
In order to promote the prompt and equitable adjustment of disabled citizen grievances, it is the desire of the City to adjust grievances informally, and officials and employees are expected to make every reasonable effort to resolve problems as they arise. However, it is recognized that there will be grievances which can only be resolved after a hearing and review of the facts and issues involved in the problem.
(c)
The provisions of this article shall constitute the City's formal grievance procedure for the redress of disabled discrimination complaints.
(Code 2003, § 2-9021; Mo. of 10-16-1984)
Sec. 26-20. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Appeal means a request to the City Council to reconsider the decision and procedures of the Committee on the Disabled.
Committee on the Disabled means a committee that shall consist of five members of the community, selected by the Council, knowledgeable on the problems of the disabled, or representing a disabled group or organization. Each member will have demonstrated sound judgment and civic pride. Each member will serve a two-year term.
Disabled Coordinator means the management official designated to be responsible for coordination of efforts to comply with the disabled discrimination regulations.
Evidentiary hearing means a hearing before the committee on the disabled where a grievant and management may present testimony and evidence in support of their respective positions.
Grievance means a request for relief in a matter of concern or dissatisfaction which is subject to the control of the City Council and addressed in the office of revenue sharing regulation. Grievable concerns include:
(1)
Participation in programs or activities open to the general public but inaccessible or unavailable to the disabled.
(2)
Communications with employees, beneficiaries and the general public with impaired vision or hearing.
(3)
Provision of services with equal result.
(4)
Access to government facilities by the physically impaired.
(5)
Municipal funding of an organization that discriminates on the basis of disability.
(6)
Recruitment, selection and employment practices.
No attempt is made to be exhaustive in the above listing.
Grievance form means the standard form promulgated by the City for the purpose of reporting and processing grievances.
(Code 2003, § 2-9022; Mo. of 10-16-1984)
Sec. 26-21. - Grievance process.
(a)
Within 90 days of the effective date of an alleged discriminatory act or condition, or 90 days from the date that the grievant could reasonably be expected to have knowledge of the existence of the act or condition, the grievant must request and submit a grievance form with the City Clerk's office. Complaints arising from actions and conditions which are on-going or repetitive in nature shall be considered timely.
(b)
Upon receiving the grievance form, the City Clerk shall forward the grievance form to the management official designated as the Disabled Coordinator.
(c)
The Disabled Coordinator shall, within ten business days, determine the merit of the complaint, meet and confer with the grieving party and attempt to resolve the complaint.
(d)
In the event that the problem remains unresolved, the City Clerk shall, on receiving the grievance form from the Disabled Coordinator, notify and convene the Committee on the Disabled.
(e)
The Committee on the Disabled shall, within ten business days of notification, conduct an evidentiary hearing on the subject grievance and prepare a written recommendation to resolve the problem. The grievance form and recommendation shall be returned to the City Clerk for administrative review by the City Council.
(f)
The City Clerk shall present the Committee on the Disabled's recommendation and grievance form to the Mayor. Within ten business days, the City Council shall review and approve or modify the recommendation.
(g)
The City Clerk then shall notify the grievant regarding the disposition of the grievance.
(h)
In the event that the grievance remains unresolved by the Committee on the Disabled's recommendation, the grievant may, in writing, direct the City Clerk to prepare the grievance form for appeal by the City Council at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
(i)
On submission of an appeal, the City Council shall conduct an independent investigation. The City Council may elect to delegate such finding of fact to counsel. A resolution to the problem shall be rendered at the following regularly scheduled meeting. The decision of the City Council shall be final.
(Code 2003, § 2-9023; Mo. of 10-16-1984)
