[ARTICLE II. - SIDEWALK ASSESSMENTS, ELECTRIC SYSTEM, WATER SYSTEM, BOND ISSUES][2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— 1920 Ga. Laws (Act No. 476), page 1370 , §§ 1—6, 8 and 13 amended the Charter but did not specify specific Charter sections amended; hence inclusion as a separate article. Sections numbers have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 101. - [Sidewalk assessments authorized.]
Said City of Ocilla shall have power and authority by ordinance to pave, curb, remove or repair the sidewalks of said City, and to assess the entire cost of the same against the owners of the property abutting on sidewalks according to the frontage owned by them thereon.
(1920 Ga. Laws (Act No. 476), page 1370 , § 1)
Sec. 102. - [Street paving assessments authorized.]
Said City shall have power and authority by ordinance to grade, pave, macadamize or improve for travel or drainage, any of the streets, alleys or ways of said City, and to assess two-thirds of the cost for such grading, paving, macadamizing or improvement against the owners of the property abutting on each side of the streets, alleys or ways so graded, paved, macadamized or improved, according to the frontage owned by each on such streets, alleys or ways, and any street car or railroad company having tracks running through or across the streets of said City shall macadamize or otherwise improve such streets in such proportion as the Mayor and Council may provide by ordinance.
(1920 Ga. Laws (Act No. 476), page 1370 , § 2)
Sec. 103. - [Enforcement of assessments.]
The said City of Ocilla is hereby authorized and empowered to enforce the payments of the assessments provided for by Sections 1 and 2 of this Act by execution against the abutting property owners and the abutting property, which said execution shall be issued and levied like executions for taxes under existing ordinances, or such as may hereafter be made applicable to the subject, and the said property shall be sold in the same manner and shall be subject to all the incidents of purchase by the City and redemption by the owner, etc., as is provided by Section 879, et seq., of the Code of Georgia of 1911, and amendments thereto; however, said City may provide by ordinance for the payments of such assessments in installments and on such terms as may be prescribed. When payments are allowed in installments, a lien shall arise and issue in favor of the City against the property of the person, firm or corporation owning the thing from the date of the completion of the work until such installments are paid, and said debt and lien shall be evidenced by a statement thereof in writing entered of record in the City Clerk's office. Said debt and lien may be transferred by the City and when transferred the holder thereof shall be subrogated to and enjoy all the rights of said City, including the right to foreclose and enforce such liens, provided, however, that to an execution issued under the provisions of this Act the defendant shall have the right to file an affidavit denying that the whole or any part of the amount for which execution issued is due and the reason why same is not due and if any amount be admitted to be due it shall be paid before the affidavit is received, and said affidavit shall be received for the balance and shall be returned to the Superior Court of Irwin County and there tried and the issue determined as in case of illegality, subject to all the pains and penalties provided for in the case of illegalities filed for delay.
(1920 Ga. Laws (Act No. 476), page 1370 , § 3)
Sec. 104. - [Publication of notice.]
One publication of the ordinance or ordinances providing for the improvements mentioned in this Act in the newspaper of Irwin County in which the Sheriffs advertisements are published shall be deemed sufficient notice to abutting property owners for the property to be improved, the contents and provisions of such ordinances and the fact that such improvements are to be made.
(1920 Ga. Laws (Act No. 476), page 1370 , § 4)
Sec. 105. - Water and Light Commission.
Be it further enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia and it is hereby enacted by authority of same, That from and after the passage of this Act, that the Mayor and Council of the City of Ocilla are hereby empowered to establish by ordinance at any time they see proper a Board of Commissioners for its electric light and water works system now owned and operated by said City of Ocilla, said Board to be known as the "Water and Light Commission." Said Board, when established, shall consist of three members who shall be freeholders in said City. They shall be elected by the Mayor and Council, one for a term of one year; one for a term of two years; and one for a term of three years; and thereafter they shall be elected for a term of three years each, and they shall serve until their successors are elected and qualified. In the event of a vacancy by death, resignation or otherwise on said Board the Mayor and Council shall at their next meeting elect a successor for said member for the unexpired term, so that there shall at all times be three members of said Board.
(1920 Ga. Laws (Act No. 476), page 1370 , § 5)
Sec. 106. - Waterworks and electric system; compensation of Water and Light Commission.
Said Board of Commissioners when established is hereby vested with full power and authority to maintain, extend and improve and modify the system of electric lights and waterworks now owned and operated by said City; to establish, equip, maintain, modify and improve the system of sewerage and drainage in said City; to appoint a superintendent of said system; to remove all employees of said system; to purchase real estate and other apparatus and machinery necessary to properly and successfully operate said water and light system; to collect and disburse all moneys raised from the sale of bonds for said system; to receive and collect all water and light rents and other revenues derived from said system; to make such rules and by-laws and regulations for their own government and the government of their employees and the management of said water and light and drainage systems as they may deem proper, not in conflict with the same. The members of said Board shall receive for their services such compensation as shall be fixed by the Mayor and Council of said City of Ocilla, which shall not be increased or diminished during his term of office. Said Board shall make a quarterly report to the Mayor and Council showing the amount of moneys received and from what source and the amount disbursed and for what purposes, and shall deliver all vouchers for same and shall furnish as nearly as possible an estimation of the amount required for the ensuing year.
(1920 Ga. Laws (Act No. 476), page 1370 , § 6)
Sec. 107. - Miscellaneous powers of water and light commission.
It shall be the duty of said Board to draft the rules and regulations regulating the price to be charged for said water and light services and the rules to be enforced between the customers in said City in the operating of said water and light system, and the rules cutting off delinquents and submit same to the Mayor and Board of Aldermen at the first meeting after their election, and after same is approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen same shall be the rules and regulations governing the operation of said water and light services, and it shall be the duty of the Mayor and Aldermen to enter same on the minutes as in the case of other ordinances. Said Board shall keep a full and complete record of all moneys received and shall keep itemized accounts of all expenses, such as new materials, repairs, fuels, oil, salaries and other labor, and file all invoices and paid bills along with other records kept by them.
Sec. 108. - Bond issue referendum.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the Mayor and Council of the City of Ocilla are hereby authorized and empowered to call by ordinance or resolution an election by the qualified voters of said City for the purpose of obtaining the assent of said voters in accordance with law to an issue of bonds in such amount or amounts as may be permitted under the Constitution or laws of the State of Georgia and at such time or times as the Mayor and Council may in their discretion prescribe for any or all of the following purposes, to-wit:
First: For working, grading, claying, paving, curbing, macadamizing, draining or otherwise improving for travel or use the public streets, alleys and lanes of the said City.
Second: For establishing or maintaining and improving a system of surface or storm and sanitary sewers within the said City.
Third: For the construction of a new electric light plant or water system; for the extension and improvement, repairing and maintaining of same; for the improvement, extension, repairing and maintenance of the present light and water plant of said City; for the improvement and repairing of the present public school building and installing or repairing the present heating apparatus of said school building.
(1920 Ga. Laws (Act No. 476), page 1370 , § 13)
[Secs. 109—120. - Reserved.]
