CHAPTER 1. - GENERAL

Section 1.1 - Purpose.
The Sole Commissioner of Pulaski County finds and declares that the public health, safety, morality, and general welfare require harmonious, orderly, and progressive development of land. The purpose of this Ordinance is:
• To encourage the design and construction of economically sound and stable subdivisions and other related structures so as to help conserve and protect the natural, economic, and scenic resources of Pulaski County, Georgia;
• To assure the provisions of the required streets, drainage, utilities, and other facilities and services in new land developments help prevent and reduce traffic congestion and hazards;
• To assure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, and to help ensure that all building lots will be accessible to firefighting equipment and other emergency and service vehicles;
• To encourage the provision of needed public open spaces and building sites in new land developments through the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational, and other public purposes;
• To help eliminate the costly maintenance problems which develop when streets and lots are laid out without proper consideration being given to the drainage characteristics of the tract of land at the time when the land is being subdivided into streets and lots;
• To assure proper legal description, identification, monumentation, and recordation of real estate boundaries; and
• To provide secure equitable handling of all subdivision plans, specifications, and plats by providing uniform standards and procedures.
(Ord. of 12-20-2010(2))
Section 1.2 - Applicability.
These procedures and standards shall apply to all land subdivisions located in the unincorporated area of Pulaski County, Georgia not recorded with the Clerk of Superior Court in Pulaski County as of the adoption date of this Ordinance.
These regulations bear no relation to any private easement, covenant, agreement, or restriction, and the responsibility of enforcing such private easement, covenant, agreement, or restriction is not implied herein to any public official. When these regulations call for more restrictive standards than those required by private contract, the provisions of these regulations shall apply.
Furthermore if any property defined as a subdivision, as it pertains to this Ordinance, has been recorded as such, but no building permits have been issued for any lots within the subdivision as of the effective date of this Ordinance, evidence must be presented to the Enforcement Officer by the owner or agent of the subdivision that the development is in compliance with existing Pulaski County Health Department rules, as well as County Land Disturbance Activity provisions and County Road Policies, within one hundred eighty (180) days of the effective date of this Ordinance, or the development shall be considered a new subdivision subject to the standards of this Ordinance.
Section 1.3 - Short Title.
This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as "The Subdivision Ordinance for Pulaski County."
Section 1.4 - Jurisdiction.
The regulations contained in this Ordinance shall control the subdivision and/or development of land within the unincorporated portions of Pulaski County, Georgia.
Section 1.5 - Interpretation.
The provisions of these regulations shall be the minimum requirements for subdivision, preparation, and recording of all plans and plats. Words used in the present tense include the future tense, except where the natural construction of this Ordinance indicates otherwise; words in the singular number include the plural number, and words in the plural include the singular; "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary; "may" is permissive. Where in the text of this Ordinance reference is made to a day or days, this shall be construed as a calendar day as opposed to a business day as defined in this Ordinance.
Section 1.6 - Administration.
The Sole Commissioner for Pulaski County, or the duly authorized representative thereof, is hereby delegated to administer this Ordinance.
Section 1.6.1 - Hardship Variances.
The Sole Commissioner for Pulaski County is authorized to grant variance from the literal requirements of this Ordinance in cases where the shape or topography of a parcel prevents it from being designed to conform to these Regulations.
Section 1.7 - Approval Process.
In general, the process for subdivision permitting and approval shall be as follows:
1.
The developer shall submit a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision to the Enforcement Officer.
2.
Upon approval of the preliminary plat, the developer shall submit development plans and approved soil erosion and sedimentation control plans to the subdivision to the Enforcement Officer.
3.
Upon completion of subdivision construction, the developer shall submit the final plat to the Enforcement Officer.
4.
Upon approval of the final plat, the final plat shall be recorded with the Pulaski County Clerk of Court.
No clearing, grading, or other land disturbance activities associated with the subdivision construction shall be conducted until the preliminary plat, development plans, erosion and sedimentation control plans, and on-site waste disposal plans have been approved by Pulaski County.
