CHAPTER 5. - CONFORMANCE WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED, DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR ALL SUBDIVISIONS

Section 5.0 - Conformance With Comprehensive Plan and Other Regulations.
Section 5.0.1 - Conformance With the Comprehensive Plan.
Approval of proposed subdivisions shall be considered in the context of conformity with the Comprehensive Land Use Plan, the Future Land Use Plan, the Subdivision Ordinance, and other development policies in effect at the time of submission to the Enforcement Officer. These policies include the establishment of a minimum lot size of two (2) acres in Section 5.4 of this Ordinance.
All highways, streets, capital improvement projects, infrastructure improvements, and other features of the Comprehensive Land Use Plan shall be considered and incorporated into the subdivision design. Where State and/or Federal road or rights-of-way controlled by State and Federal agencies are affected, the review and approval of the Georgia Department of Transportation shall be required by Pulaski County.
Section 5.0.2 - Other Regulations.
Whenever there is a discrepancy between minimum standards or dimensions noted herein and those contained in other official regulations, resolutions, or ordinances, the most restrictive shall apply.
Section 5.0.3 - Suitability of Land.
Whenever a preliminary or final subdivision plat proposes the dedication of land to public use and the Enforcement Officer finds that such land is not required or suitable for public use, the Enforcement Officer may either recommend to disapprove said plat or recommend approval with conditions including the rearrangement of lots to include such land.
Land subject to flooding, improper drainage, and erosion, and any land deemed to be unsuitable for development shall not be platted for any uses as may continue such conditions or increase danger of health, safety, life, or property unless steps are taken to eliminate the above-mentioned hazards.
Section 5.1 - Improvements Required.
Section 5.1.1 - Required Design Standards.
All applicable subdivision design and improvement standards set forth in these regulations shall be included on all plats which are required to be approved by the Sole Commissioner.
Section 5.1.2 - Streets.
Subject to the provisions of Chapter 1, Section 1.2 of this Ordinance, the following street improvements shall be installed and provided by the subdivider and shall be indicated and conveyed or transferred and title shall vest in Pulaski County upon acceptance unless otherwise indicated on the plat.
1.
Storm sewer piping, drainage structures, curb and gutter, ditches, and related easements and appurtenances as needed to provide proper drainage and grading of the streets.
2.
Street paving.
3.
Street name signs of the quality and design used and approved by Pulaski County.
4.
All traffic control signs, devices, and striping as specified by Pulaski County.
Section 5.1.3 - Utilities.
Subject to the provisions of Chapter 1, Section 1.2 of this Ordinance, the improvements listed below are required. Where installed upon property within the unincorporated areas of Pulaski County at the time of construction, and as approved by the appropriate entity, all such improvements shall be dedicated and conveyed or transferred to and the title shall vest in Pulaski County unless otherwise indicated on the recorded plat of subdivision. Nothing contained in this Section is in any way intended to affect matter of litigation pending between Pulaski County and/or any designated agencies at the time of enactment of this Ordinance before courts of competent jurisdiction relating to the ownership of improvements required by this Section.
1.
Sanitary sewer system with service connections to the property line for each parcel and lot; except in cases where septic tanks are approved. When a public sewer line and adequate treatment capacity is available within fifteen hundred feet (1,500') of said subdivision by gravity flow, the subdivision system shall be connected to said public sewer system provided, however, that residential subdivision lots may be served by adequate on-site sewage management systems under regulations of the Pulaski County Health Department until such time as public sewer is available within two hundred feet (200') of the subdivision. The provisions of this paragraph are further subject to any sewer use priority policies adopted by the Sole County Commissioner from time to time.
2.
Water supply and/or distribution system in accordance with any standards for water and wastewater that have been or will be adopted by the Sole County Commissioner.
3.
All potable water systems shall be subject to the current "Rules for Safe Drinking Water: Chapter 391-3-5, Revised June 1989, Georgia Environmental Protection Division" and applicable Pulaski County regulations, policies, and construction standards.
4.
The subdivider shall provide sanitary sewer or septic capacity, fire protection lines and necessary flows for the project as required by the applicable codes. Said capacity shall be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Enforcement Officer prior to issuance of land disturbance and building permits.
5.
The subdivider shall be responsible for providing and paying for any needed water and sewer extensions, including any additional capacity that may be required to serve the development.
Section 5.1.4 - General Improvements.
Whenever and wherever conditions, as are caused or aggravated by reason of the subdivision of land hereunder, adversely affect the proper use or drainage of streets, highways, pedestrian ways, slopes or natural watercourses, or adversely affect the public health, safety, or welfare, one or all of the following improvements shall be required to be provided and installed by the subdivider:
1.
On-tract and/or off-tract drainage or drainage structures necessary for the proper use and drainage of slopes, streets, highways, and pedestrian ways, or for public safety.
2.
Erosion control planting and/or structural controls.
Section 5.2 - Construction Standards.
All public improvements shall conform to standard specifications as set forth in these regulations and in the applicable regulations of Pulaski County, and/or other State and Federal regulations. In case of conflict, the more stringent standards shall apply.
Section 5.2.1 - Drainage.
Natural drainage channels, ditches, swales, and drainage patterns existing within a subdivision shall be retained and improved by the subdivider, unless otherwise approved by the Sole County Commissioner. Off-site drainage shall be adequately transported through the proposed development. Post-development storm water runoff shall not exceed pre-development conditions for the two (2), five (5), ten (10), twenty-five (25), and fifty (50) year storm events. For developments which are in the lower one-third (⅓) of a defined major watershed, and which discharge directly to the one hundred (100)-year floodplain, these requirements may be waived at the discretion of Pulaski County, provided that applicant demonstrates adequate protection of the water quality by use of filter berms, stilling basins, velocity control, and other approved methods. Such demonstration shall include supporting data that definitely indicates that adequate protection of the water quality is provided.
Section 5.2.2 - Monuments.
Right-of-way and property line monuments shall be placed in each subdivision in accordance with the following:
Property Line Monuments: A twenty-four inch (24") iron pin imbedded into the ground shall be required at each lot corner and each point where the property line changes direction. Such iron pin shall be at least one-half inches (0.5") in diameter.
Section 5.2.3 - Lots.
The subdividing of the land shall be such as to provide each lot with direct abutting access to an existing local street or to a street contained within the proposed subdivision. Lots may access private drives as provided for in Section 5.2.5.1 of this Ordinance.
Insofar as is practical, side lot lines shall be perpendicular to radial or street lines.
The size, shape, and orientation of every lot shall be subject to the approval of the Enforcement Officer for the type of development and use contemplated based on slopes, drainage, soil types, exposure, and other such relevant considerations. However, no lot shall be smaller than two (2) acres and have a minimum of one hundred and fifty feet (150') of frontage at the building line.
Double frontage lots, unless approved by the Enforcement Officer, shall be prohibited except where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages associated with topography, orientation, and property size. A planting screen reservation of at least ten feet (10') in width, or equivalent natural buffer, may be required along the property line of lots abutting such a traffic artery or other incompatible use. The planted buffer shall form and constitute a no access easement unless otherwise approved by the Enforcement Officer.
Corner lots shall have extra width to permit appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets. In no case shall this be less than the minimum front yard setback required.
Lot remnants (lots below minimum area or width left over after subdividing tracts of land) shall be prohibited. Such remnant areas shall be added to adjacent lots, rather than remain as unusable parcels.
Section 5.2.4 - Slopes.
The ratio for all fill or cut slopes in the public right-of-way and/or slope easements shall not exceed three (3) horizontal units to one (1) vertical unit, unless otherwise approved by the Sole Commissioner based on topographic conditions. This is the maximum allowable slope and should not be considered the norm. If grading plans indicate cut or fill slopes outside of the right-of-way, then the construction plans and final plat shall indicate slope easements for the required grading.
All fill slopes created for the purpose of street or home construction shall have a compaction of not less than ninety-five percent (95%) as determined by the established engineering practices.
All slopes created or existing within the subdivision or as a result of the subdivision development shall be planted or otherwise protected from erosion and failure.
Section 5.2.5 - Streets.
The improvement of all streets, including existing streets incorporated into the subdivision, shall conform to the following minimum standards:
1.
Street rights-of-way and pavement width shall conform to Section 5.3.7 herein.
2.
Base and paving shall be installed for each class of street as indicated in Sections 5.2.9 and 5.2.10 of this Ordinance.
3.
Concrete curbs and gutters shall be constructed with three thousand pounds (3,000 lbs.) per square inch at twenty-eight (28)-day breaking strength, Highback Type, six inches (6") by twenty-four inches (24"), or Hollywood Type, four inches (4") by twenty-four inches (24"). A tool joint spaced every ten feet (10') and an expansion joint spaced every two hundred and fifty feet (250') is required for all curb and gutter.
New local residential streets (without curb and gutter)
Grassed shoulders and waterways (ditches) are required. The aggregate road base shall be extended one foot (1') beyond the edge of pavement and the shoulders and ditch sections shall be constructed in accordance with Pulaski County's typical cross section for unpaved roadways. In no instance shall the shoulder be less than five feet (5'). Shoulders shall be graded to no more than one-half inch (0.5") per foot.
Storm water conveyance structures may include, but are not limited to, culverts, storm drainage pipes, catch basins, drop inlets, junction boxes, and headwalls, and shall be provided for the protection of public rights-of-way.
Section 5.2.5.1 - Private Streets.
Private streets are available for use in the case of developments that wish to utilize entry gates, mixed forms of property ownership, new urbanist design standards, or other non-traditional public road design requirements. These private streets will be owned and maintained by a homeowners' association, or other comparable entity, and not by Pulaski County. Neither private nor public streets are necessary in a development that does not have separate lots, but only units, such as an apartment or condominium development.
Section 5.2.5.1.1 - Allowed Locations.
Private streets are permitted in any subdivision development located in the unincorporated areas of Pulaski County, at the discretion of the developer, but are mandatory for all manufactured home land-lease communities.
Section 5.2.5.1.2 - Design Standards.
Private streets (other than private access drives), if approved by Pulaski County, do not have to meet the minimum geometric design requirements per International Fire Codes, or those of the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials' (AASHTO) design standards for that road's posted speed but in no case shall the design speed be less than 15 miles per hour.
Where private streets intersect public streets, private streets shall meet the requirements of public streets including intersection offset requirements, deceleration and acceleration lanes, intersection gradients, and other applicable design and construction requirements of these regulations.
If at any time the owner wishes the private road to be accepted by Pulaski County, such road shall have to conform to all standards imposed upon public roads. The owner shall pay for any improvements or modifications required to bring the road to those standards.
Section 5.2.5.1.3 - Construction Standards.
Private streets (other than private access drives), if approved by Pulaski County, shall meet all construction requirements and standards that apply to all public streets.
Section 5.2.5.1.4 - Right-of-Way and Easement Requirements.
Private streets shall be located within a separate parcel of land, no less than thirty feet (30') wide. The width shall include the private street, any drainage structures, sidewalks, or utilities. Private streets may not be located in an easement over multiple lots.
The developer shall grant an exclusive and irrevocable access and utility easement to Pulaski County that is located on the private right-of-way.
Pulaski County may require additional easements for any utilities not located on the private right-of-way. All easements shall meet the minimum sizes required by Pulaski County.
Section 5.2.5.1.5 - Maintenance Provisions.
Pulaski County will not maintain roadways, signs, or drainage improvements on private streets. A homeowners' association, or other comparable entity, shall provide all maintenance activities and related actions to ensure compliance with Pulaski County's National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit for storm water discharges.
As part of the homeowners' association or other comparable entity, covenants are required for any lots on a private street. Provisions for maintenance shall be included in these covenants. The covenants shall set out the distribution of expenses, remedies for non-compliance with the terms of the agreement, right of use easements, and other considerations. The covenants shall run with the land and not be dissolved or modified in any way as to conflict with these regulations. The covenants shall include the following items:
1.
Minimum annual assessments in an amount adequate to defray costs of ordinary maintenance and procedures for approval of additional needed assessments.
2.
A periodic maintenance schedule.
3.
Provisions stating that all maintenance regulations shall be enforceable by any property owner served by the road or by the homeowners' association established by the covenants.
4.
Establishment of a formula for assessing maintenance and repair costs equitably to property owners served by the private road.
5.
Definition of "maintenance" that includes, but is not limited to, road surfacing, shoulders, signs, storm drainage facilities, and vegetation control.
6.
A notice that no public funds of Pulaski County are to be used to build, repair, or maintain the private roads within the subdivision or land-lease community.
Section 5.2.5.1.6 - Owner's Release.
At the time of purchasing property that is served by a private street, upon any sale or resale of the property, the purchaser shall acknowledge by execution of a release that the street is private and not maintained by Pulaski County, and that maintenance of the street is the responsibility of a separately identified agency other than Pulaski County.
The final subdivision plat shall provide notification that all properties served by the private street are perpetually subject to the provisions of these regulations regarding the owner's release upon any sale or resale of the property.
Section 5.2.5.1.7 - Other Standards.
A subdivision or land-lease community with private streets shall meet all other requirements and standards that apply to subdivisions with public streets, such as storm water runoff and detention requirements, the provision of utilities, sidewalks, and traffic and street name signs.
Private streets shall be denoted as such on the street name signs for each such street. Proposed streets, which are extensions of, or in alignment with, existing or other proposed streets, shall have the same name. Street names shall not duplicate or be phonetically similar to existing street names. Pulaski County requires a different color than the standard color for a public street name sign, and requires that an additional sign be affixed to the street name sign pole indicating that the street is "private" or "not maintained by Pulaski County." The developer is responsible for obtaining the street signs and installing them to County specifications at the developer's expense.
Any gate placed across a private street that limits access to a subdivision or development shall provide for unimpeded access by emergency vehicles, governmental vehicles on official business, and delivery services including the United States Postal Service. Accessibility to such gated communities shall comply with all standards and requirements of Pulaski County for access activation, and shall be of breakaway or other construction acceptable to Pulaski County.
Section 5.2.6 - Shoulder Requirements.
The street right-of-way shall be graded at least five feet (5'), measured from the back of the curb and gutter sections or the edge of the uncurbed sections of pavement on both sides of the street to provide space for installation of utilities to prevent the encroachment of driveways into the street surface, to provide walkways off the paved vehicular surface, and to provide proper sight distances in curved roadway sections.
Section 5.2.7 - Street Construction Standards.
This Subdivision Ordinance requires that all public streets be built to minimum standards of material and construction. Several materials and types of construction shall be used, as set forth herein.
Section 5.2.7.1 - Sub-Surface Drainage Systems.
Sub-surface drainage installations may be required by the Pulaski County Roads Superintendent to provide a stable sub-surface and base for frills and base course construction over wet weather springs, soft spots, swamps, and other unsuitable soils. The Pulaski County Roads Superintendent shall require the owner to have a soil analysis and drainage design performed by the design professional of record if such conditions are encountered.
Section 5.2.7.2 - Backfill, Finish Grading, & Grassing.
Shoulders shall be sloped and backfilled as necessary following paving and curb and gutter installation as required by the County Roads Superintendent. All curbs and gutter shall be backfilled according to the designs in these regulations. All eroded areas shall be reconstructed to the original final grade. Re-grass shall be required for bare spots, areas of insufficient stand, and reconstructed areas.
Section 5.2.7.3 - Signage.
The subdivider, per Georgia DOT Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices and County Standards, shall accomplish sign installation. Signs, striping, and traffic control devices shall be installed prior to final plat approval or issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy (for site developments).
Section 5.2.7.4 - Construction Standards.
All materials, construction, and definitions shall conform to the current GA DOT "Standard Specifications for the Construction of Roads and Bridges," latest edition, and any amendments thereto, unless otherwise stated herein.
Section 5.2.7.5 - Cuts, Fills, and Subgrades.
Cuts, fills, and subgrades shall be subject to the approval of the County Roads Superintendent. The County Roads Superintendent may vary the required slope. The County Roads Superintendent shall specify any improvements necessary to protect community assets and to reduce the potential undue deterioration of street improvements. The developer will be guided by the following requirements:
1.
Slope maximums shall be at a ratio of three feet (3') horizontal distance to one-foot (1') rise (3:1). No slope line shall extend closer than five feet (5') to back of curb or five feet (5') to edge of pavement on uncurbed sections.
2.
All slopes shall be adequately planted with approved vegetation. A suitable mulch of straw, hay, etc. shall be used.
3.
The developer shall be responsible for any erosion that might occur until the expiration of maintenance bonds.
4.
Compaction shall be ninety-eight percent (98%) by Standard Proctor Density Test. Subgrade compaction will be field tested through the use of a "Roll Test", as specified herein.
5.
All organic and other suitable materials located within the proposed roadbed and two feet (2') on either side of the back of curb or edge of pavement shall be removed prior to subgrade preparation.
6.
Backfill behind curbs shall be free of organic material (roots, trunks, etc.), stone, broken concrete, etc. Topsoil and other similar unsuitable soil types removed from the roadbed may be utilized for shoulder construction outside of the two-foot (2') buffer.
7.
Cuts and fills shall be extended beyond the right-of-way as required, but a slope easement must be provided for maintenance purposes. Trees outside of the graded right-of-way with drip lines extended into the right-of-way shall be removed at the direction of the Pulaski County Roads Superintendent or Enforcement Officer.
8.
Sub-base stabilization may be required by the Pulaski County Roads Superintendent as specified herein if necessary to allow safe access of construction vehicles and equipment.
9.
The owner shall accomplish shaping and backfilling of shoulders, ditches, and slopes to final grade lines following the installation of underground utilities. Care shall be taken to fill and compact settled or eroded areas.
10.
Grassing of all cleared portions of the shoulders and slopes shall be accomplished immediately following the achievement of final grade lines. If limitations require the application of temporary vegetative cover, the owner shall make contractual provisions for regressing with permanent cover. Requirements for grass species, mixture, fertilizer, and application methods in each individual subdivision shall be in accordance with the Soil Conservation Services standards for critical areas.
11.
Conduits for utility crossings shall be installed before subgrade inspection. Said conduits shall be indicated on the construction plans. No bores will be allowed for utility distribution/transmission systems after subgrade inspections or paving operations without prior approval of the Sole County Commissioner.
Section 5.2.8 - Drainage System Construction.
All pipe sizes shall be approved by the County Roads Superintendent to meet the drainage conditions of the watershed and area of the potential runoff, per current design standards and requirements. The minimum cross drain diameter shall be eighteen inches (18"). Minimum cover shall be twelve inches (12"). In all instances, depth requirements shall meet or exceed manufacturer's guidelines.
Section 5.2.8.1 - Materials.
Pipe materials shall be determined based on type of installation, as set forth in "Selection Guidelines for Storm Sewer Piping", incorporated herein. All pipe shall be new and unused.
The gauge or class of pipe used shall be determined by acceptable methods using H-20 highway loading, and shall meet GADOT specifications. The County Roads Superintendent or his/her duly appointed representative shall inspect the pipe before installation to assure that it is free of cracks or damage. All damaged, used, or "second" quality used pipe shall be refused and immediately removed from the job site.
Section 5.2.8.2 - Joints and Installation.
Reinforced concrete pipe joints must be properly constructed, to prevent exfiltration. The use of O-rings or sealants may be required, depending on pipe design. All storm sewer piping shall be constructed in a linear approach, with no vertical or horizontal variance from the approved design. High-density polyethylene (HDPE) and corrugated metal pipe (CMP) shall be joined by manufacturer's recommended pipe banding materials. All trench lines shall be thoroughly compacted, prior to pipe installation. HDPE pipe will require special bedding and installation as directed by the County Roads Superintendent.
Section 5.2.8.3 - Endwalls.
All culverts shall have endwalls or flared end sections constructed in accordance with GADOT specifications and GADOT Manual on Drainage Design for Highways. All flared end sections under or adjacent to roadways with a posted speed in excess of 25 mph shall be safety end sections per GADOT standards.
Section 5.2.8.4 - Catch Basins and Storm Sewer Structures.
All catch basins and storm sewer structures shall be designed and constructed in compliance with GADOT Specifications and shall be GADOT Standard 1033D, 1034D, or 1019. The use of a Standard 1019 shall be excluded from turnarounds and the low point of sag vertical curves draining more than three hundred feet (300') of gutter. Drainage calculations and design data are required for the use of a Standard 1019. All drainage structures shall be constructed of reinforced precast concrete, four-foot (4') diameter or larger. All 1033D and 1034D drainage structures shall require a reinforced precast "Round to Square" adapter, for additional support. All junction boxes shall include precast adapters and heavy-duty traffic rated ring and covers. All junction boxes shall include approved steps, spaced twelve inches (12") o.c. vertically, to allow safe access by maintenance personnel. All storm sewer structures shall be reinforced precast or pored in place reinforced concrete. Masonry structures are not allowed unless authorized in writing by the County Roads Superintendent. No length of pipe shall exceed three hundred feet (300') without intermediate structures.
In certain instances where rolled or "Hollywood" curb is utilized, the County Roads Superintendent may require the use of 1033F and 1034F catch basins.
All structures shall have poured inverts to minimize accumulation of water and sediment in the structure.
Section 5.2.9 - Base Course Construction.
The base course shall consist of graded aggregate of a minimum compacted thickness of six inches (6") placed on stabilized subgrade in accordance with these specifications and in conformity with the lines, grade, and typical cross-section as shown on the drawings approved by the County. Tolerance is +/- one-tenth of a foot (0.10'). Base course depth requirements vary based on estimated traffic volumes and street classification.
Section 5.2.9.1 - Materials.
All materials shall be secured from GADOT approved sources.
Graded aggregate shall consist of hard, durable particles of fragments of stone, and stone mortar and shall be graded as follows:
EXPAND
Sieve Size Designation Percent by Weight Passing Square Mesh
2 inches 100%
1.5 inches 95%—100%
0.75 inches 60%—100%
No. 10 30%—45%
  EXPAND
Material Passing No. 10 Sieve Percent
Passing No. 10 Sieve 100%
Passing No. 60 Sieve 15%—70%
Passing No. 200 Sieve 3%-25%
Siltless Clay 9%—25%
  Section 5.2.9.2 - Surfacing and Paving.
For a minor residential street, minimum pavement width shall be twenty-four feet (24') and minimum pavement thickness shall be two inches (2") asphalt.
For all other streets, the County shall determine pavement width and thickness as required by the intended use or function.
Section 5.2.10 - Construction Methods—Roadways.
Section 5.2.10.1 - Preparation of Subgrade.
All boulders, organic material, soft clay, spongy material, and any other objectionable material shall be removed and replaced with approved material. The subgrade shall be properly shaped, rolled, and uniformly compacted to conform to the lines, grades, and typical cross-sections as shown on the drawings approved by the County. The subgrade must pass a "Roll Test" as specified herein, prior to beginning construction of the base course. The subgrade shall be scarified to a depth of six inches (6"), and compacted to ninety-eight percent (98%) maximum dry density.
Section 5.2.10.2 - Placing and Rolling Aggregate.
All base course material shall be deposited and spread by means of spreader boxes, or approved mechanical equipment, or from moving vehicles equipped to distribute the material in a uniform layer. Immediately following the spreading of the course aggregate, all material placed shall be compacted to the full width by rolling with a smooth wheel power roller weighing seven (7) to ten (10) tons. Rolling shall progress gradually from the sides to the center, parallel with the center line of the street and lapping uniformly each preceding track by one-half the width of such track, and shall continue until all the surface has been rolled and has been thoroughly keyed, the interstices of the stone reduced to a minimum and until it ceases to creep or wave ahead of the roller.
Any irregularities, areas of segregation, or depressions that develop under such rolling shall be corrected by loosing the material at these places and adding or removing material until the surface is smooth and uniform. The application of water, applied uniformly over the base course, may be required to achieve adequate compaction. Shaping and rolling shall be performed alternately as required to maintain a uniform compacted base until a surface or treatment has been applied to the base. Along curbs, headers, and walls, and at all places not accessible to the roller, the base course material shall be tamped thoroughly with mechanical tampers or approved hand tampers.
Section 5.2.10.3 - Testing.
Prior to construction of the graded aggregate base course, the subgrade compaction shall be tested by the developer and/or design professional of record and witnessed by the County Roads Superintendent or his/her duly appointed representative. Likewise, the compaction of the base course shall be tested prior to the application of Bituminous Plant Mix paving. Compaction testing shall be accomplished by visual inspections of actual live axle loads, commonly referred to as "Roll Test." All compaction tests shall be scheduled with the County Roads Superintendent, or his/her duly appointed representative no less than twenty-four (24) hours in advance. The contractor shall also provide an adequate testing vehicle, minimum eighteen (18) ton hauling capacity, fully loaded. All areas or sections of the subgrade and base course, which do not pass visual live load compaction testing, shall be corrected. Once the contractor makes all necessary corrections, it shall be his/her responsibility to schedule any and all subsequent roll tests.
Section 5.2.10.4 - Bituminous Plant Mix Paving.
Paving material shall consist of Bituminous Plant Mix only. The use of "Superpave" mix design will not be permitted.
Material, equipment, seasonal, and weather limitations, preparation of road surface, application and construction methods shall be the same as set out in the GADOT's Standard Specifications for Road and Bridges, latest edition, and any amendments thereto.
The County Roads Superintendent shall require that all work meet or exceed the above requirements.
In the case of conflict between the developer and the County Roads Superintendent, samples shall be taken and tested by a recognized testing laboratory, at the developer's expense.
Section 5.2.10.5 - Curb and Gutter.
Curb and gutter, when used, shall meet all current GADOT Standards for regarding placement and compressive strength. See Appendix A for details.
Concrete curb and gutter construction shall be of 3,000 PSI concrete twenty-four inches (24") wide. The curb and gutter shall be so constructed as to present a smooth, even line both vertically and horizontally, in accordance with the GADOT Standards. Maximum grade tolerance is ± one-tenth of a foot (0.10') from grades and cross-sections shown on the construction plans. There shall be one-half inch (0.5") expansion joints placed every two hundred and fifty feet (250') and preshaped contraction joints every ten feet (10') along the curb and gutter.
Section 5.2.10.6 - Utilities and Subgrades.
Underground utilities, including sewer services, all water lines, and any cable conduits under the pavement shall be placed in the ground before the base material is in place.
All trenches shall be thoroughly compacted in six-inch (6") layers with mechanical compacting equipment.
All fire hydrants, utility poles, street lights, transformer boxes and pedestals shall be set at a distance not less than six feet (6') from the back of the curb.
Section 5.2.11 - Responsibilities During Construction.
The developer and the design professional of record have full responsibility for quality control and inspection during construction to ensure substantial conformance with the approved construction plans, County standards, County regulations, and generally accepted construction practices.
The Enforcement Officer will conduct on site inspections to intermittently check the adequacy of the developer's quality control and inspection. The owner or contractor shall make requests for inspections to the Enforcement Officer at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to when the inspection is needed. Inspections shall be conducted and passed prior to the construction of further activity or proceeding into new phases. Inspections are required of each of the following phases, as applicable to the actual work to be performed under the development permit:
a)
Prior to clearing or clearing and grubbing of the property or any portion included under the development permit, inspection of erosion and sedimentation control measures and protective devices for undisturbed areas.
b)
Upon completion of street grading, inspection and approval shall be required prior to trenching or continuation with sub-grade preparation.
c)
Upon installation of storm drainage pipe, detention, or other storm water facilities.
d)
Street curbing and gutter. Inspection shall be requested after the forms of string line have been set. Street width and vertical and horizontal alignment may be spot-checked.
e)
Sub-grade of streets. After compaction and receipt of test reports by the Enforcement Officer the sub-grade may be roll tested with and eighteen (18) ton tandem dump truck and shall pass to the satisfaction of the Enforcement Officer.
f)
Street base. After receipt of test reports by the Enforcement Officer, the base may be string-lined for depth and crown. The street base may be roll-tested with an eighteen (18) ton tandem dump truck and shall pass to the satisfaction of the Enforcement Officer.
g)
Paving. The Enforcement Officer shall be on site during the paving process to check consistency, depth, and workmanship, as applicable. For asphalt paving, the temperature of the material will be monitored and the street will be cored after completion to check thickness and density. Satisfactory test results of the cores shall be delivered to the Enforcement Officer prior to the approval of a final subdivision plat or certificate of occupancy.
Any construction issues requiring an interpretation and/or change in the plans, standards, and/or regulations are to be resolved by the design professional of record and presented to the Enforcement Officer for written concurrence or approval. Any design changes must be revised on the construction plans and issued as a change to the approved construction plans.
Failure of the developer to provide adequate quality control and inspection which results in a substantial nonconformance with the plans, standards, regulations, or generally accepted construction practices or the endangerment of the public heath, safety, and welfare shall be cause for the Enforcement Officer to issue a stop work order for any or all portions of the construction in accordance with County procedures and ordinances. The order will remain in effect until the developer or design professional of record can demonstrate to the County that adequate quality control and inspection will be provided to address and correct the nonconformance and minimize the potential for further non-conformance issues or endangerment issues.
Each day of continued construction on the scope of work covered by the stop work order under this Ordinance shall be considered a separate violation of this Ordinance.
The developer controls the means, sequence, and methods of construction. As such, the developer has full responsibility for safety on the project site and compliance with all Federal, State, and local regulations pertaining to safety and environmental requirements.
Section 5.2.12 - Selection Guidelines for Storm Sewer Piping.
EXPAND
Type of Pipe
Installation Reinforced Concrete Pipe (RCP) Corrugated Steel AASHTO M-36 Corrugated
Aluminum
AASHTO
M-196 Plastic AASHTO M-294 Reinforced
Concrete Box
Culvert Per
GADOT
Standards
Aluminized Type II CMP Bituminous Coated CMP Aluminum Alloy CMP Corr. High Density Polyethylene Smooth Lined
Longitudinal Grade < 10% Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes (1) NA
Longitudinal Grade > 10% No Yes Yes Yes Yes (1) NA
Cross Drain < 250 ADT Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes (1) NA
Cross Drain > 250 ADT Yes No No No No NA
Cross Drain Flowing Stream Appl. Yes 3 No Yes Yes (1) (4) NA
Cross Drain 25 Yr. Flow > 200 CFS or Fill Depth > 18 ft. 2 No No No No Yes
  Conditional Uses:
1.
Corrugated high-density polyethylene pipe, smooth lined type "S", must be manufactured and installed in strict compliance with the manufacturer's recommendation. Special backfill and bedding are required per the direction of the County Roads Superintendent. Prior approval of the County Roads Superintendent is required. HDPE applications shall not exceed 36" diameter.
2.
Reinforced concrete box culverts are required under excessive flow and/or fill depth conditions. Approved pipe materials may be utilized in some instances, based on the County Roads Superintendent's assessment of existing conditions and future maintenance requirements.
3.
The addition of Type "A" full bituminous coating, with paved invert, is required for this application. (AASHTO M-190)
4.
Requires approval of County Roads Superintendent based on assessment of existing conditions and future maintenance requirements.
Section 5.3 - Design Standards.
Section 5.3.1 - Alleys.
Alleys or service drives may be required on any lots to be used for multiple-family, commercial, or industrial developments, but shall not be provided in residential blocks except where the subdivider produces evidence satisfactory to the Enforcement Officer of the need for alleys or service drives.
Section 5.3.2 - Blocks.
The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be determined with due regard to:
1.
Provisions of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs of the type of use contemplated;
2.
Needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety of street traffic; and
3.
Limitations and opportunities of topography.
In general, residential blocks shall not be greater than two thousand feet (2,000') in length, or less than four hundred feet (400') in length. In blocks over one thousand feet (1,000') long, the Enforcement Officer may, when existing or proposed public gathering places so justify, require public crosswalks across the block.
Residential blocks shall be wide enough to provide two (2) tiers of lots, except where fronting on expressways and arterials or prevented by topographical conditions or size of the property, in which case the Enforcement Officer may require and/or approve a single tier of lots.
Section 5.3.3 - Lots.
Insofar as practical, side lot lines shall be perpendicular or radial to street lines. Each lot shall abut upon a public street, except as herein provided.
The size, shape, and orientation of every lot shall be subject to approval of the Enforcement Officer for the type of development and use contemplated. No lot shall be more than six (6) times as deep as it is wide at the building setback line, and each lot must be at least two (2) acres in size, with a minimum frontage from the building line of one hundred and fifty feet (150') unless approved by the Sole County Commissioner at the time of final plat review.
Double frontage, unless required by the Enforcement Officer, shall be prohibited except where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography, orientation, and property size. A planting screen reservation of at least ten feet (10'), and across which there shall be no right of access, may be required along the line of lots abutting such a traffic artery or other disadvantageous use.
Corner lots shall have extra width to permit appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets.
Lot remnants (lots below minimum area or width left over after subdividing tracts of land) shall be prohibited. Such remnant areas shall be added to adjacent lots, rather than remain as unusable parcels.
The subdividing of the land shall be such as to provide each lot with direct abutting access to an existing public street or to a street contained within the proposed subdivision.
Section 5.3.4 - Names.
The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate or closely approximate the name of an existing subdivision in the unincorporated areas of Pulaski County, except in the case where the subdivision is a section or part of a larger contiguous subdivision being developed by the same subdivider in phases, sections or stages. In this case the name of the overall subdivision can be used for each phase, stage, or section, but the phase, stage, or section number must also be included as part of the name.
Section 5.3.5 - Reserve Strips.
Reserve strips controlling access to streets, alleys, or public grounds shall not be permitted unless the need for such reserve strip is demonstrated to and approved by the Sole County Commissioner pursuant to the variance procedures of this Ordinance.
Section 5.3.6 - Slopes.
No cut or fill slopes or existing unadjusted slope shall encroach closer than five feet (5') from the curb back in curbed sections or five feet (5') to the edge of pavement for uncurbed sections on any street right-of-way within the subdivision. A cut or fill slope between lots should be confined to the lower lot whenever possible so as to avoid erosion from the higher lot to the lower lot.
Section 5.3.7 - Streets.
The arrangements, character, extent, width, grade, and location of all streets shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan for Pulaski County and shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets.
The name of a street shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the name of an existing street within the unincorporated areas of Pulaski County.
Where such is not shown in the Comprehensive Plan for Pulaski County, the arrangement of streets in a subdivision shall either:
1.
Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing streets in surrounding areas at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the required minimum width; or
2.
Conform to a plan for a neighborhood approved or adopted by the Sole Commissioner to meet a particular situation where topographical or other conditions made continuance or conformance to existing streets impracticable.
Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by through traffic will be discouraged.
Where a subdivision contains a dead-end street other than a cul-de-sac, the Enforcement Officer may require the subdivider to provide a temporary vehicle turn-around within the right-of-way for effective traffic circulation.
Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed major street, the Enforcement Officer may require marginal access streets, double frontage lots with screen planting contained in a non-access reservation along the rear property lines, deep lots with rear service drives, or such other treatment as may be necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation of through and local traffic.
Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right-of-way, or limited access highway right-of-way, the Enforcement Officer may require a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way, at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land, as for park purposes in residential districts, or industrial purpose in appropriate districts. Such distances shall also be determined with due regard for the requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
Minimum street right-of-way widths shall be as follows:
EXPAND
Freeways and Expressways 200 feet
Arterial Streets and Highways 100 feet
Collector Streets 80 feet
Minor Streets:
Residential 60 feet
Commercial and Industrial 70 feet
Cul-de-sac and Loop Streets 60 feet
Cul-de-sacs Turn-Around (diameter) 100 feet
Marginal Access or Frontage Roads 40 feet
Alleys, Service Drives, or Private Drive (excluding Private Roads) 22 feet
  A proposed subdivision that includes a platted street that does not conform to the minimum right-of-way requirements of this Ordinance shall provide for the dedication of additional right-of-way along either one (1) or both sides of said street so that the minimum right-of-way required by this Ordinance can be established. If the proposed subdivision abuts only one (1) side of said street, then a minimum of one-half (½) of the required extra right-of-way shall be dedicated or reserved by such subdivision.
Street intersections shall be as near to right angles as possible, and no intersection shall be at an angle less than seventy-five degrees (75°). Detailed designs of intersections may be required.
Curb line radius at street intersections shall be at least twenty feet (20'), and where the angle of street intersection is less than ninety degrees (90°); the Enforcement Officer may require a greater radius.
Right-of-way radius at street intersections shall parallel the curb line radius.
Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than two hundred feet (200') shall not be permitted.
Cul-de-sac streets shall be designed so that the maximum desirable length shall be twelve hundred feet (1,200') and in no case shall exceed sixteen hundred feet (1,600') in length, including circular turn-around.
Half-streets shall be prohibited.
Section 5.3.7.1 - Private Roads.
The purpose of this section is to encourage orderly development to protect against the adverse effects of premature development, and to protect health and safety by encouraging a practical response time for police protection and rescue service.
A private road shall serve a maximum of five (5) lots, including lots having frontage on public roads, with the only exception being in manufactured home land lease communities where more than five (5) lots may be served by a private road. A maximum of three (3) lots will be permitted without frontage on a public road. Flag lots will not be permitted. Driveways for each lot served by the private road shall be physically located on the private road and will be constructed prior to final plat approval. Any further subdividing shall require a modification pursuant to Section 4.8 provided that the modification will be submitted to the Sole County Commissioner.
No private roads that have not been deeded or dedicated to Pulaski County shall be maintained or built by Pulaski County. Maintenance and construction costs of these roads not deeded or dedicated shall be borne solely by the owners affected with no liability to the County. This statement shall be placed on each plat of record before recording by the Pulaski County Superior Court Clerk's office. Deeds to transfer title of property shall expressly state that a road that the County does not maintain provides access to the lot. A road maintenance agreement shall be required which shall be filed concurrently with the deed.
The right-of-way of all private roads shall not be less than sixty feet (60'). The road does not have to be designed in accordance with the Minimum Design and Construction Standards for Subdivisions. Construction of the private road shall be completed before final plat approval is rendered.
The subdivider shall incur the cost of installing a street name sign and any regulatory signs. A legal stop sign shall be placed and continually maintained by the developer at the intersection of a private road and a public road. The private road shall bear a sign indicating that it is a "private" road, which may be incorporated into the street name sign. Any additional costs incurred after the initial installation will be the responsibility of the property owners.
Section 5.3.8 - Requirements for Flag Lots.
The Enforcement Officer shall approve the platting of flag lots under the following provisions:
1.
Flag lot development will not have an adverse impact upon neighboring lots.
2.
Flag lots shall be allowed only under circumstances where it would be impractical or unreasonable for normal platting patterns to be followed, such as where terrain or topography or existing platting patterns preclude conventional subdivision development.
3.
Flag lots shall have access to a public right-of-way by a flagpole with a minimum thirty-foot (30') of equal and uniform width constructed and maintained to allow for sanitation and emergency vehicles.
4.
The flagpole shall be owned in fee simple.
5.
The length of the flagpole shall not exceed two and one-half (2.5) times the average lot width, excluding the flag pole, or twice the depth of the lot whichever dimension is the lesser of the two; however, no flagpole may exceed five hundred feet (500'). The Sole Commissioner may grant a modification to the five hundred foot (500') maximum length required above provided the width of the flagpole is sixty feet (60').
6.
The flagpole shall be parallel to the closest existing side lot line, unless modified by the Enforcement Officer because of unique topographical or platting conditions.
7.
A flag lot shall not be double-stacked.
8.
No more than two adjacent flag lots shall be created, and in no instance shall flag lots constitute more than ten percent (10%) of the total number of lots in a given subdivision.
9.
The flagpole may alter course or direction provided that the change in direction will not result in confusing the address on the public road with the location of the building site for mail delivery or access by emergency vehicles.
Section 5.3.9 - Additional Design and Construction Considerations.
More stringent design and construction standards may be required by the County Roads Superintendent where streets cross one hundred (100) year floodplains, serve as the only means of public ingress and egress to one or more lots, cross flowing streams, cross poor soils, or encounter similar conditions.
In general, all streets, roads, and alleys shall be constructed to provide the necessary paving, roadway, drainage, and safety requirements as provided herein and by other specifications of the Sole County Commissioner.
All streets, roads, and alleys shall be graded to their full width so that pavement, shoulders, and sidewalks, where required or proposed for future installation, can be constructed on a uniform plane. The right-of-way shall be cleared of all trees. Additional trees shall be removed outside of the right-of-way if they are under the drip line of any tree in the right-of-way as directed by the County Roads Superintendent or Enforcement Officer.
Clearing, grading, or other land-disturbing activities associated with subdivision construction shall not commence until the preliminary plat, engineered construction plans, and soil erosion and sediment control plans have all been approved by Pulaski County. This shall not be construed to prohibit necessary logging or survey operations prior to approval of such plans.
An adequate system for storm drainage based upon at least a twenty-five (25)-year storm event shall be provided for the proper drainage of all surface water originating in or affecting the subdivision. Storm water inlets shall be designed and located so as to not exceed a maximum gutter spread width of six feet (6') based on flow data calculations for the ten (10)-year storm event.
The drainage system shall conform to any County storm drainage master plan which may be adopted and shall include necessary curbing, pipes, culverts, headwalls, drop inlets, bridges, swale ditches, or any other type of drainage facility need to control the flow of water in, around, or through the subdivision.
Pipe size will be determined by utilizing the Rational Method or the Soil Conservation Method (TR-55) to compute peak runoff, with all measurements conforming to all specifications set forth in Section 5.2.8 of this Ordinance. A twenty-five (25)-year storm event will be used to determine all pipe sizes. All cross drains and culverts under roadways shall be sized based on a fifty (50)-year storm event. All proposed piping within a FEMA identified floodplain shall be sized to adequately convey the one hundred (100)-year frequency storm event.
Manning's equation shall be used to evaluate hydraulic capacity and velocity of flow within the storm drainage system. Required storm pipes shall be designed to maintain a water flow velocity greater than or equal to three feet per second (3'/sec.). The hydraulic analysis of culverts shall be based on Federal Highway Administration engineering practice and take into account the inlet geometry, slope, size, roughness, and approach or tailwater conditions. Storm water inlets shall be designed in accordance with Federal Highway Administration engineering practice and constructed in compliance with GADOT construction standards and shall be GADOT Standard 1033, 1034, and 1011. Drainage calculations and design data are required for all storm water conveyance systems and structures. All drainage structures shall be constructed of reinforced precast concrete, four-foot (4') diameter or larger. All 1033D and 1034 D drainage structures shall require a reinforced precast "Round to Square" adapter for additional throat support. All junction boxes shall include approved steps, spaced twelve inches (12") o.c. vertically, to allow safe access by maintenance personnel. All structures shall have paved inverts.
In certain circumstances where rolled or "hollywood" curb is utilized, the County Roads Superintendent may require the use of 1033F and 1034F catch basins.
Energy dissipation devices, such as splash pads, rip rap, stilling basins, etc., shall be provided at the outlet of every culvert and piped discharge system. The size and type of energy dissipation device to be used shall be designed in accordance with sound engineering practices and the requirements of this Ordinance.
All drainage ditches that are between building lots shall be piped a minimum of at least one hundred feet (100') from the front building line. This shall be done at the expense of the developer.
Additional requirements for storm water management and detention facilities are outlined in Section 5.7 of this Ordinance.
Section 5.3.10 - Installation of Utilities.
All utility crossings, service lines, conduit, or other related appurtenances shall be installed within the limits of the roadbed within two feet (2') of each side of the pavement surface, prior to the placement and compaction of the graded aggregate base course. Utilities should be installed following the installation of curb and gutter, unless the curb line is accurately staked at fifty-foot (50') intervals to insure proper utility locations as specified by the Sole County Commissioner. The developer should coordinate the location of all utilities and provide a copy of all as-built and proposed locations with the final plat.
Section 5.3.11 - Slopes and Shoulder Improvements.
The maximum ratio for all fill or cut slopes (including side slopes on drainage ditches) shall be three-to-one (3:1), and the minimum width for all shoulders from back edge of the curb shall be five feet (5'). Cut/fill slope lines shall be no closer than five feet (5') and five feet (5') for curbed and uncurbed sections respectively. All shoulders shall slope one-half inch (0.5") to the foot minimum. When all construction is completed, all slopes and shoulders shall be cleared of all rubbish and shall have a stand of grass, either by sprigging, seeding, or installing sod, to prevent soil erosion.
Section 5.3.12 - Base Load Testing.
Both the subgrade and base course will be load-tested with an eighteen (18) ton tandem dump truck, fully loaded, or an equivalent. The test shall cover the base thoroughly to assure a minimum tolerance of a one-half inch (0.5") settling and no cracking or pumping, prior to any paving. The County Roads Superintendent, Enforcement Officer, or their designee shall witness this test.
Section 5.3.13 - Pavement Breaks for Utility Services.
If utility services are installed after the streets have been paved (i.e., under existing streets), such utility services shall be installed by boring under the street. Note that this applies only to services and not the distribution system in the development. When it is necessary for a subdivider of any utility company to break existing base or pavement for the installation of services, or any other purpose, the subdivider or utility company shall be financially responsible for the repair of the pavement. The pavement shall be repaired with a patch in accordance with standards developed by the County Roads Superintendent and in accordance with all other specifications required herein for construction of streets.
Section 5.3.14 - Grassed Medians.
Vertical or rollback six-inch (6") concrete curb and gutter shall be required for a grassed median on all streets. Such medians shall be designed to slope towards the outside curb of a street or contain an adequate drainage system within the median.
Section 5.3.15 - Sidewalks and Street Signs.
If the installation of sidewalks within the public right-of-way is desired, the subdivider shall submit a sidewalk plan with the construction plans for the development. At the time of construction of the individual home, apartment building, commercial, or other use, sidewalks shall be installed on both sides of the street, on an individual lot basis. The developer shall install all handicap ramps and transitions as required by the County for Americans with Disabilities Act compliance at the time of development construction. The Enforcement Officer shall inspect the location and construction of the sidewalk and shall not issue a Certificate of Occupancy until the required sidewalk is properly installed.
Sidewalks shall be four inches (4") thick, with a minimum width of five feet (5') on major collector streets and higher classifications and four feet (4') on all other streets. A grass planting strip with a minimum width of three feet (3') shall be provided between the back of curb and the sidewalk, with a ten-foot (10') wide planting strip required for major collector and arterial streets. All sidewalks shall be sloped at the rate of one-fourth inch (0.25") per foot toward the street, unless otherwise approved.
The right-of-way width shall be increased by ten feet (10') if sidewalks are located within the right-of-way, with five feet (5') being added to each side of the right-of-way within the storm sewer corridor. Sidewalks shall be placed within this expanded storm sewer corridor, but shall generally not be located on top of the storm sewer or any other utility. Otherwise, sidewalks may be located outside of the right-of-way within cross easements located on the fronts of adjacent lots. The party responsible for street maintenance shall also be responsible for all sidewalks located within these easements.
All streets shall be designated by name on a metal street signpost, with such metal post having nameplates of metal set one above the other with a clearance of seven feet (7'). The post shall be so located as to be visible for both pedestrians and vehicular traffic. At cross-street intersections, two (2) signposts shall be located diagonally across the intersection from each other. Only one (1) street signpost shall be required at T-street intersections. All signs shall conform to the guidelines contained in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. The developer shall be responsible for all costs associated with the installation of street signs. Plans shall show all street signs, speed limit signs, traffic control signs and devices, and pavement markings.
Section 5.4 - Utilities.
Utility lines shall be located at such location as may be approved by Pulaski County. Any underground utilities shall be installed with the surface having the same compaction as that of the paved way and marked on the plat to indicate the location of the underground utilities.
The facilities for underground utilities such as sewer, water, and gas, including sewer and water laterals to each lot line when laid in streets, shall be in place prior to surfacing of streets. All facilities for utilities shall be placed in easements provided for that purpose in the subdivision.
The subdivider shall install sewer mains, sewer laterals, water mains and services extended to the property line of each lot, in accordance with accepted engineering practices, the approved subdivision construction plans, and Pulaski County standards when such services are available.
Regardless of whether or not public water and sewer services are available, the minimum lot sizes shall be two (2) acres per single-family dwelling, or in the case of multi-family dwellings, two (2) acres per four (4) bedrooms.
Design criteria for storm drain facilities shall conform to accepted engineering practices and guidance documents. Pipe materials shall conform to all criteria set forth in the selection "Guidelines for Storm Sewer Piping," incorporated herein.
Site lighting shall be oriented to the interior of the site so as not to impose glare or objectionable light levels on the neighboring residential property.
Where public water service is available, water mains for both domestic use and fire protection shall be properly connected with the public water system, or with an alternate water supply approved by the County and GAEPD. The lines shall be constructed in such a manner as to adequately serve all lots shown on the subdivision plat. The lines shall be installed in conformance with the standards set by the Sole County Commissioner. The County will require network distribution analysis of the water distribution system for any development that the peak hour water demand is equal to or exceeds fifty gallons per minute (50 gpm).
Fire hydrant spacing shall be in accordance with the water specifications of Pulaski County. Placement of fire hydrants is subject to approval by the Pulaski County Fire Department.
Section 5.5 - Driveways.
Driveways shall have a slope of not more than seventeen percent (17%) for a distance of ten feet (10') measured along the driveway centerline from the intersection of the centerline of the driveway and the edge of pavement of back of curb.
Section 5.6 - Street Maintenance.
The subdivider shall maintain and keep in repair all streets, drainage pipes, and drainage structures constructed in the subdivision unless they are accepted by Pulaski County.
To ensure the paving and maintenance required by these regulations, at the time of acceptance of the road, or security bond, by the Sole County Commissioner for final plat approval, the subdivider shall provide a security bond, from an acceptable surety licensed to do business in the State of Georgia, payable to the County, in an amount not less than the cost, or estimated cost as approved by the Sole County Commissioner or his/her authorized representative, of said street(s) and other improvements and said bond shall continue for a period of at least two (2) years from the date of final completion and acceptance by the County of all work.
Section 5.7 - Standards for Storm Water Management.
A combination of storage and controlled release of storm water runoff and on-site retention shall be required when the proposed development shall increase the peak rate of runoff by more than one cubic feet per second (1.0 cfs) for a ten (10)-year frequency storm. The Rational Method or the Soil Conservation Method shall be used to determine the runoff rate in accordance with sound engineering practice and shall be acceptable to the Enforcement Officer. Developments may be exempt from this provision if the design professional of record can demonstrate that the runoff can be adequately transmitted through existing downstream storm drain structures and will not result in increased flood heights or additional threats to public safety, will not adversely affect downstream properties, and compliance with Section 5.2.1 is demonstrated.
Should on-site retention be required, the outlet device(s) of the retention facility shall be designed to limit post-development runoff rates to less than or equal to the pre-development rates for the two (2), five (5), ten (10), twenty-five (25), and fifty (50)-year storm event.
The retention storage volume to be provided shall be calculated on the basis of the appropriate return frequency rainfall, as published by the National Weather Service or other acceptable service for the affected site. The retention volume required shall be calculated based on the appropriate hydrograph for inflow and standard reservoir routing at the approved release rates as specified above. However, the design calculations shall include the routing of the one hundred (100) year frequency storm event through the retention facility. Said calculations shall indicate that the one hundred (100) year frequency storm event can be safely routed through the facility.
The storm drainage system shall be designed in accordance with Section 5.3.9 of this Ordinance. At a minimum, the storm drainage system shall be sized to adequately convey the runoff from the fifty (50) year frequency storm event to the retention facility.
Any required retention areas shall not be developed. Appropriate vegetation shall be planted in all retention areas. Any required retention areas shall be incorporated into the common areas of the residential development or incorporated into individual lots. The local government maintains the right, but not the responsibility, to access retention areas for purposes of maintenance and inspection.
Fences a minimum of four feet (4') in height with a minimum eight-foot (8')-wide gate will be required on all retention ponds where:
1.
The sides of the pond have a slope greater than three horizontal to one vertical (3:1); or
2.
The depth of water in the pond is greater than three feet (3') at one hour after the duration of the storm event.
Drainage easement requirements:
The minimum easement width for open ditch where pipe is feeding into the ditch will be determined as follows:
EXPAND
Pipe Size Easement
15" to 30" 10 feet
36" to 66" 20 feet
72" and greater 25 feet
  Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way or stream, there shall be a drainage and access easement conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourse, and such further width as will be adequate for the purpose of drainage and maintenance, taking into account possible future development of higher land in the same drainage area. Such drainage way shall be piped when the Enforcement Officer shall find that it is a hazard or that a continual maintenance problem might exist. If the drainage way is totally piped, the easement width shall be based on the associated pipe size above.
Section 5.7.2 - Permit.
A storm water management plan incorporated into the approved construction plans shall constitute a permit that will satisfy the requirements of this Section.
