ARTICLE I. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 10-1. - Definitions.
Adequate food and water. Food and water in sufficient quantity and appropriate for the particular type of animal necessary to prevent starvation, dehydration or a significant risk to the animal's health from a lack of food or water.
Animal control officer. An individual appointed by the county board of commissioners to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter including but not limited to the animal control officer, designated agents, employees, the sheriff, the sheriff's deputies or other county law enforcement officers.
Animal shelter. A facility:
(1)
Operated by the county board of commissioners or under contract to the board of Commissioners for the purpose of impounding or harboring seized, stray, homeless, abandoned or unwanted dogs, cats and other animals.
(2)
A veterinary hospital or clinic, which operates for the purpose of impounding or harboring seized, stray, homeless, abandoned or unwanted dogs, cats and other animals in addition to its customary purposes.
(3)
Operated, owned or maintained by a duly incorporated humane society, animal welfare society or other nonprofit organization for the purpose of providing for and promoting the welfare, protection and humane treatment of animals.
Dangerous dog. A dog that, according to the records of an appropriate authority has:
(1)
Attacked, endangered, bitten or has inflicted severe injury on a human being on public or private property; or
(2)
On more than one occasion severely injured or killed a domestic animal while off the owner's property; or
(3)
Been used primarily or in part for the purpose of dog fighting or is a dog trained for dog fighting; or
(4)
When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the streets, sidewalks or any public grounds or off the owner's property in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack provided that such actions are attested to in a sworn statement by one or more persons and dutifully investigated by animal control.
Dead animals. The carcasses or parts of carcasses of animals, regardless of whether they are considered to be farm livestock, poultry, equines, domesticated animals, pets or any other type of animal regardless of the cause of death of such animals.
Equine. A member of the Equidae species, including horses, mules and asses.
Governing authority. The county board of commissioners.
Humane care. The provision of adequate heat, ventilation, sanitary shelter and wholesome food and water consistent with the normal requirements and feeding habits of the animal's size, species and breed.
Humane society. An unincorporated nonprofit organization existing for the purpose of prevention of cruelty to animals.
Kennel. An establishment, other than an animal shelter, where dogs or cats are maintained for boarding, holding, training or similar purposes for a fee.
Livestock. Animals of the equine, bovine or swine class, including goats, sheep, mules, horses, hogs, cattle and other grazing animals and all ratites, including, but not limited to, ostriches, emus and rheas.
Local government. The county, or when appropriate, the City of Cleveland or the City of Helen.
Owner. A natural person or any legal entity such as a corporation, partnership, firm or trust which owns, possesses, harbors, keeps, or has custody of an animal.
Person. A person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, the state, the county or the cities of Cleveland and Helen.
Pet dealer. A person who sells, offers to sell, exchanges or offers for adoption dogs, cats, birds, fish, reptiles or other animals customarily obtained as pets. However, a person who sells only animals that are produced and raised, not to exceed 30 animals a year, shall not be considered a pet dealer under this chapter. Operation of a veterinary hospital or clinic by a licensed veterinarian shall not constitute the veterinarian as a pet dealer, kennel or stable under this article.
Potentially dangerous dog. A dog which, when unprovoked,
(1)
Engages in behavior that requires a defensive action by a person to prevent bodily injury, which occurs off the property of the owner or keeper of the dog attack provided that such actions are attested to in a sworn statement by one or more persons and dutifully investigated by animal control; or
(2)
Has killed, seriously bitten, inflicted injury or otherwise caused injury while attacking a domestic animal off the property of the owner or keeper of the dog.
Proper enclosure. An enclosure for keeping a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog securely confined indoors or outdoors in an enclosed and locked pen, fence or structure suitable to prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the dog from escaping. Any such pen or structure shall have secure sides and a top. If the dog is enclosed within a fence, all sides of the fence shall be of sufficient height and the bottom of the fence shall be constructed in such a manner as to prevent the dog's escape either from over or from under the fence. Any such enclosure shall also provide protection from the elements.
Public or private animal refuge. A facility that harbors unwanted animals of any breed including crossbreeds.
Public roads. A street, road or highway including the full width of the right-of-way which is open to the use of the public for vehicular travel.
Running at large. Livestock not under manual control of a person on public roads or on property not belonging to the owner unless by permission of the owner of such property.
Severe injury. A physical injury that results in broken bones or disfiguring lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery or a physical injury that results in death.
Stable. A building, structure or other enclosure where equines are maintained for boarding, holding, training, breeding, riding, pulling vehicles or other similar purposes and a fee is charged for maintaining such equines or for the use of such equines.
Sterilization. The surgical removal of the reproductive organs of a dog or cat in order to render the animal unable to reproduce.
(Res. No. 2005-13, 7-5-05)
Sec. 10-2. - Obstruction, interference or hindrance of duties.
Whoever knowingly and willfully resists, obstructs or opposes an animal control officer in the lawful discharge of official duties by offering or doing violence to the person of such shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as hereinafter set out in section 10-101 (penalties).
(Res. No. 2005-13, 7-5-05)
Secs. 10-3—10-20. - Reserved.
