APPENDIX A - ZONING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Zoning Ordinance of the city, as adopted by the City Council on Dec. 10, 2018. Amendments to the ordinance subsequent to Dec. 10, 2018, are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the Dec. 10, 2018 ordinance. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE I. - TITLE

Section 1.00. - Short title.
This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as Zoning Ordinance of Metter, Georgia.
ARTICLE II. - DEFINITIONS

Section 2.00. - Interpretation of certain terms or words.
Except as specifically defined herein, all words used in this ordinance have their customary dictionary definitions. For the purpose of this ordinance, certain words or terms used herein are defined as follows:
Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular.
The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
The word "may" is permissive.
The word "lot" includes the word "plot" or "parcel."
The word "structure" includes the word "building."
The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company, or corporation as well as an individual.
The word "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the words "intended", "arranged", or "designed to be used or occupied."
The word "map" or "zoning map" shall mean the Official Zoning Map of Metter, Georgia, and may include a series of maps in sections.
The term "planning commission" refers to the Metter planning commission.
The term "building inspector" refers to the person subsequently and specially designated by the City of Metter and so employed as the building inspector for Metter, or authorized representative of that office, and shall include chief building inspector.
The term "city clerk" refers to the City Clerk of Metter, Georgia, or authorized representative of that office.
The terms "council" or "city council" refer to the legally constituted and elected governing body of Metter, Georgia.
The term "R-X" zone refers to zones R-1, R-2, R-3, and/or R-4.
2.01 Accessory. A use or building subordinate to the principal building on a lot and used for purposes customarily incidental to the main or principal use or building and located on the same lot herewith.
2.01a: Adult Entertainment Establishment. This term is defined in the Metter Adult Entertainment Establishment Ordinance.
2.02 Alcohol, Off-site. The sale of alcohol for off-site consumption.
2.03 Alcohol, On-site. The sale of alcohol for on-site consumption.
2.04 Alcohol, Incidental. The sale of alcohol at a business where eighty (80) percent of revenues are not alcohol based.
2.05 Alley. A secondary way, which affords vehicular service access to the side or rear of abutting property.
2.06 Alteration of Building. Any change in the supporting members of a building (such as bearing walls, columns, or girders); an addition or reduction to a building; any change in use; or any relocation of a building from one location or position to another.
2.07 Boarding, Lodging or Rooming House. A dwelling in which meals or lodging or both are provided.
2.08 Building. A structure which is completely enclosed by a roof and by exterior walls which is moveable or permanently affixed to a lot, and used or intended for the shelter, support, or enclosure of persons, animals, or property of any kind.
2.09 Building, Agricultural. An accessory building such as a silo, barn, etc. used for agricultural purposes.
2.10 Building, Principal. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which said building is situated.
2.11 Building Line. That line which represents the distance a building or structure must be set back from a lot boundary or a street right-of-way line according to the terms of this ordinance. In all cases, the building lines of a lot shall be determined to run parallel to and set back the appropriate distance required within the district in which the lot is located from street right-of-way lines, street center lines, or other lot boundary lines measured to the building wall, not roof overhang.
2.12 Canopy, Freestanding. No limitation to visibility. Front, side and corner yard offsets to be minimum of fifteen (15) feet.
2.13 Conditional Use. A use (sometimes called a "special exception," but not to be confused with a " variance" that would not be appropriate generally or without restriction throughout a zoning district but which, if controlled as to number, area, location, or relation to the neighborhood, would not be injurious to the public health, safety, welfare, morals, order, comfort, convenience, appearance, or general welfare. Such uses may be permitted only in zoning districts listed in Article VI upon appeal, if conditional use permits are granted by the board of appeals.
2.14 Clinic. An establishment where medical or dental patients who are not lodged overnight are admitted for examination or treatment.
2.15 Cluster Development. A change from the conventional pattern of subdivision development, which groups housing units into relatively tight units while providing a unified network of open space. A variety of housing types may be utilized in clusters, including single-family, town houses, apartments, and condominiums.
2.16 Day Care Facilities. This zoning ordinance refers to three different kinds of day care facilities. Each type of facility cares for and supervises children under eighteen (18) years of age less than twenty-four (24) hours per day. The allowed location of a day care facility is defined in Article VI.
2.16a. Day Care Home refers to a private residence that provides care for up to six children. This ordinance treats a day care home as a home occupation. The home occupation regulations apply to a day care home.
2.16b. Day Care Group refers to a facility that cares for up to eighteen (18) children. If the Day Care Group is in a residential zone, the regulations of Section 8.09 apply.
2.16c. Day Care Center refers to a facility that cares for over eighteen (18) children.
2.17 District. The term applied to various geographical areas for purposes of interpreting the provisions of this ordinance. The districts are designated with the use of symbols on the official zoning map. Regulations controlling land use in the various districts are set forth in Article V, Zoning District Schedule. The terms "district" and "zoning district" are synonymous and are used interchangeably throughout this ordinance.
2.18 Dwelling. A building or portion of a building arranged or designed to provide living quarters for one or more families. The terms "dwelling", "dwelling unit," and "residence" are synonymous. (See definition of "family," 2.25).
2.19 Dwelling, One-Family. A detached dwelling designed for or occupied exclusively by one family on a single lot.
2.20 Dwelling, Two-Family. A dwelling arranged or designed to be occupied by two families in separate dwelling units living independently of each other on a single lot.
2.21 Dwelling, Group. A building or portion of a building occupied or intended for occupancy by a number of unrelated persons or families, but in which separate cooking facilities are not provided for such resident persons or families. The term "group dwelling" includes but is not limited to the terms rooming house, apartment, hotel, retirement home, nursing home, fraternity or sorority house, Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A., and similar organizational or institutional group. A transient hotel, motel, or tourist home shall not be deemed to be a group dwelling as herein defined.
2.22 Dwelling, Multiple-Family. A building or series of buildings on the same lot or portions thereof used or designed and rented as dwellings for three or more families living independently of each other, with the number of families in residence not exceeding the number of dwelling units provided. The terms "multiple-family" and "multi-family" are synonymous.
2.23 Dwelling Unit. One or more rooms connected together and constituting a separate, independent housekeeping establishment for use on a basis involving owner occupancy or rental (lease) on a weekly, monthly, or longer basis with provision for cooking, eating, and sleeping and physically set apart from any other dwelling units in the same structure.
2.24 Drive-In. A retail or service enterprise oriented to automobile driving patrons wherein service is provided to the consumer on the outside and/or inside of the principal building.
2.25 Family. One or more persons with the generic character of a family unit occupying a single dwelling unit and using common cooking facilities.
2.25a Flea Market. An outdoor market that uses vendors to trade merchandise.
2.26 Garage, Public. Any garage other than a private garage which is used for storage, repair, rental, servicing, washing, adjusting, or equipping of automobiles or other vehicles.
2.27 Garage, Private. An accessory building or portion of a principal building used only for the private storage of motor vehicles as an accessory use.
2.28 Garage, Repair. Building and premises designed or used for repairing motor vehicles, trailers, and related transport carriers, provided that body work and painting shall be conducted within fully enclosed buildings and provided further that trailers and self-propelled vehicles in process of repair shall be stored in a fully enclosed and screened area.
2.29 Home Occupation. Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes and meeting the requirements of Section 8.00.
2.30 Junk or Salvage Yards. The use of any part of a lot, whether inside or outside of a building, for the storage, keeping, abandonment, sale or resale of junk, salvage, or scrap materials, or the dismantling, demolition, or abandonment of buildings, automobiles, or other vehicles, machinery, equipment, or parts thereof,
230a Licensed for distilled spirits, beer, wine, malt liquor. These terms are defined in the Metter Alcoholic Beverages Ordinance.
2.31 Loading Space, Off-Street. Space logically and conveniently located for pickups and deliveries off public rights-of-way, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used, and accessible to such vehicles at all times.
2.32 Lot. An area designated as a separate and distinct parcel of land on a legally recorded subdivision plot or in a legally recorded deed as filed in the official city records.
2.33 Lot, Corner. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets.
2.34 Lot, Double Frontage. A lot which has frontage on more than one street, provided, however, that no corner lot shall qualify as a double frontage lot unless said corner lot has frontage on three or more streets.
2.35 Lot Width. The distance between side lot lines measured at the front building line.
2.36 Manufactured Home. A generic term for a factory-built dwelling unit transportable in one or more sections totaling no less than three hundred twenty (320) square feet and meeting the construction and safety standards of the national code administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The term "manufactured home" is synonymous with the term and also includes the terms "modular," "double wide" and "prefabricated" home when built to comply with the HUD Code or latest edition of the International Building Code. The term "manufactured home" does not include "recreation vehicles" - see Section 8.04a. (Ord. dated 2-21-08)
2.37 Manufactured Home Park. A parcel of land which has been planned and improved for the placement of two or more manufactured homes or recreational vehicles. A conditional use permit shall be required for the establishment of a manufactured home park; the term "park" includes the term "community," see Section 8.04b. (Ord. dated 2-21-08)
2.38 Motel. A building or buildings in which lodging is provided and offered to the public for compensation, which is open to transient or permanent guests. The word "motel" includes the terms "motor hotel" and "tourist court".
2.38a Neighborhood Commercial Use. This use is intended to provide for the continued use and expansion of small scale, low-intensity neighborhood commercial use types, which serve and are in proximity to residential neighborhoods and is intended to ensure compatibility with adjacent residential and commercial uses. This designation is only for property that was grandfathered as a prior commercial use.
Neighborhood commercial use is defined as the following retail establishments: apparel store, book store, craft store, florist, video rental store, beauty salon, barber shop, business and professional office, copying shop, blue-print shop, shoe repair shop, tailor/seamstress shop, bakery, fruit stand, and a rental/lease facility. No use can exceed two thousand (2,000) square feet.
2.39 Nonconforming Use. A structure or land lawfully occupied by an existing use which does not conform with the permitted uses for the zoning district in which it is situated, either at the effective date of this ordinance or as the result of subsequent amendments to this ordinance.
2.40 Parking Lot. Any public or private open area used for the express purpose of parking automobiles and other vehicles with the exception of areas on the premises of single-family dwellings used for parking purposes incidental to the principal use. Parking lots may be the principal use on a given lot or an accessory use.
2.41 Parking Space. A space not less than nine by eighteen (18) feet plus maneuvering space within a parking lot or on a single-family dwelling lot expressly provided for purposes of parking an automobile or other vehicle.
2.42 Patio House. A single-family dwelling in which most, or all, of a lot is used with yard space combined instead of divided. Front, rear and side yards are consolidated into one garden area, either partially or completely bordered by rooms or enclosed by walls.
2.42a Professional Office. An office used to provide professional services in the fields of architecture, accounting, insurance, law, engineering, real estate, or similar profession.
2.43 Recreational Vehicles. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis, designed to be either pulled by another vehicle or self-propelled, to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel and recreational purposes. The term "recreational vehicle" includes the terms "RV", "motor home," "travel trailer" and related wheeled recreational equipment not designed for year-round occupancy.
2.44 Sign. The term "sign" shall mean and include every outdoor advertising device, billboard, poster, panel, freestanding ground sign, roof sign, projecting sign, pylon sign, illuminated sign, sign painted on a wall, window, marquee, awning or canopy, and shall include any announcement, declaration, demonstration, display, ribbon, banner, illustration, or insignia used to advertise or promote the interests of any person when the same is placed in view of the general public traveling along a public street or road right-of-way.
2.45 Signs, Number and Surface Area. For the purpose of determining number of signs, a sign shall be considered to be a single display surface or display device-containing elements organized, related, and composed to form a unit. Where matter is displayed in a random manner without organized relationship of elements, or where there is reasonable doubt about the relationship of elements, each element shall be considered to be a single sign. The surface area of a sign shall be computed as including the entire area within a regular geometric form or combinations of regular geometric forms comprising all of the display area of the sign and include all of the elements of the matter displayed. Frames and structural members not bearing advertising matter shall not be included in computation of surface area.
2.46a Sign, On-Site. An outdoor advertising device relating in its subject matter to the premises on which it is located, or to products, accommodations, services, or activities on the premises. The terms "point of sale" sign and "on-premises" signs are synonymous with "on-site" signs.
2.46b Sign, Off-Site. An outdoor advertising device other than an on-site sign including those erected by the outdoor advertising industry.
2.47 Signs, Miscellaneous Definitions. The following definitions apply to signs:
2.47.01. Animated sign. Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict action or create a special effect or scene.
2.47.02. Air and gas filled device. Any sign using, either wholly or in part, forced air or other gas as means of supporting its structure.
2.47.03. Beacon. Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or directed at one or more points not on the same zone lot as the light source; also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
2.47.04. Banner. Any lightweight fabric or similar material (with or without frames) that is mounted on a pole or building. An advertising banner contains a commercial message. A non-advertising banner does not contain a commercial message. A banner used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision, or other entity is a flag. For example, a banner that says, "Close out Sale" is an advertising banner. A banner with pictures of springtime flowers is a non-advertising banner. A banner representing the Georgia Tech football team is a flag.
2.47.05. Building marker. Any sign displaying the name of a building and date and other incidental information about its construction. Such a sign is cut in a masonry surface, bronze or permanent material.
2.47.06 Building sign. Any sign attached to any part of a building.
2.47.07 Canopy or awning. A structure made of cloth, metal, or other material affixed to a building and/or supported by the ground.
2.47.08. Canopy sign. Any sign that is part of or attached to an awning, canopy, or other fabric, plastic, or other structural protective cover over a door, entrance, window, or outdoor service area. A marquee is not a canopy.
2.47.09. Changeable copy sign. Any sign or portion of [a] sign with illustrations or letters, which can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or surface of the sign. A sign on which the only copy which changes is an electric or mechanical display of the time and temperature shall be considered the "time and temperature" portion of the sign and not a changeable copy sign.
2.47.10. Commercial message. Any sign wording or other representation that directly or indirectly advertises, names, or calls attention to a business, service, or other commercial activity.
2.47.11. Construction sign. A sign identifying individuals or companies involved in design, construction, wrecking, financing, or development when placed upon the premises where work is under construction, but only for the duration of construction or wrecking.
2.47.12. Flag. Any fabric, banner, or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns, or symbols, used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision, or other entity.
2.47.13. Freestanding sign. Any sign supported by structures or supports permanently affixed to or anchored in the ground is wholly independent from any building or other structure.
2.47.14. Identification sign. Any sign displaying identification or historical information and [which] contains no commercial message of any kind.
2.47.15. Incidental sign. Any sign, generally informational, which has a purpose secondary to the use of the lot on which [it] is located (i.e., "no parking", "loading only", and other similar directives). No sign with a commercial message legible from a position off the lot on which it is located shall be considered incidental. Also, this refers to any sign conveying social greetings or congratulations.
2.47.16. Lot. Any piece of parcel of land, the boundaries of which has been established by a legal instrument of record and meets the requirements of this zoning ordinance.
2.47.17. Marquee. A permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building, but not supported by the ground, and constructed of durable material to provide protection from the weather.
2.47.18. Nonconforming sign. Any sign, which does not comply with the requirements of this ordinance.
2.47.19. Normal grade. The lower of existing grade prior to construction, or the newly established grade after construction, exclusive of any filling, berming, mounding, or excavating for the purpose of locating the sign.
2.47.20. Outdoor advertisement (billboard). A sign which directs attention to a business commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered at a location other than upon the premises on which the sign is located.
2.47.21. Pennant. Any lightweight fabric or other similar material, message or no message, suspended from a rope, wire, or string, usually in a series, designed to move in the wind.
2.47.22. Person. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or organization, singular or plural, of any kind.
2.47.23. Portable signs. Any sign which is not permanently attached to the ground or other permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported by wheels or trailer; signs converted to A-frames or T-frames.
2.47.24. Political sign. A sign identifying and urging voter support for a particular election issue, political party, or candidate for public office and which is no larger than six square feet. Any sign identifying and urging voter support for a particular election issue, political party or candidate for public office and which is larger than six square feet shall not be considered a political sign but shall be subject to the requirements of this ordinance for a sign of similar size and location.
2.47.25. Principal building. The main or principal building located upon a lot; the building in which the principal use of the premises is conducted. Lots with multiple principal uses may have multiple principal buildings. However, storage buildings, garages, and other clearly additional uses shall not be considered principal buildings.
2.47.26. Projecting sign. Any sign, which is affixed, to a building or wall and its leading edge extends beyond the line of such building or wall or beyond the surface of that portion of the building or wall to which it is affixed by more than twelve (12) inches.
2.47.27. Real estate directional signs (temporary). A nonpermanent directional sign pertaining to the sale, rent, or lease of property.
2.47.28. Real estate sign (temporary). A nonpermanent sign pertaining only to the sale, rent or lease of the property on which it is located.
2.47.29. Residential (Home Office) sign. Any sign located in a district zoned for residential uses that contains no commercial message except advertising for goods and services legally offered (i.e. home occupation)—conforming to the requirements of the zoning ordinance [this appendix]—on the premises where the sign is located.
2.47.30. Roof sign. Any sign erected, constructed, or maintained in whole or a part upon, against, or directly above the roof or parapet line by a space of no more than six inches.
2.47.31. Setback. The distance from the property line to the nearest part of the applicable building, structure, or sign, measured perpendicularly to the property line.
2.47.32. Sign. Any fixture, placard, structure, or device illuminated or non-illuminated that uses any color, form, graphic, symbol, or writing which is visible to the general public, announcing a product, service, place, activity, person, institution, business, solicitation, or to convey information of any kind.
2.47.33. Spectacular sign or device or special event sign. A sign or device including, but not limited to any piece or strip of cloth, paper, canvas, plastic or similar material, which is affixed to the principal building or the curtilage thereof, on which a message, slogan or emblem is painted, drawn or otherwise projected, colored or shaped for the purpose of advertising or drawing public attention; (ii) balloons; or (iii) vehicles, trailers, and other mobile devices which are parked or placed in a stationary position and which have a sign mounted on the vehicle or are painted to display a message and whose primary function is to act as a sign or attention getting device; (iv) other attention-getting devices, but not including banners, fluttering ribbons, flags or streamers.
2.47.34. Street. A strip of land or way, subject to vehicular as well as pedestrian traffic, that provides direct or indirect access to property, including, but not limited to, alleys, avenues, lanes, highways, roads, or other thoroughfares.
2.47.35. Street frontage. The distance, for which a lot adjoins a public street, from one lot line intersecting said street to the furthest distant lot line intersecting the same street.
2.47.36. Suspended sign. Any sign, which is suspended from the underside of a horizontal plane surface and is supported by such surface.
2.47.37. Temporary sign. Any sign, which is not permanently erected, affixed, or maintained on a premise for a long period of time (e.g., political signs).
2.47.38. Wall sign. Any sign attached parallel to, but within twelve (12) inches of a wall, painted on the wall surface of, or erected and confined within the limits of an outside wall of any building or structure which is supported by such wall or building, and which displays only on one sign surface.
2.47.39. Window sign. Any sign, pictures, symbols, or combination thereof, designated to communicate information about an activity, business, sale, event, commodity, or service, which is attached to, placed upon, or painted on the interior of a door or window or upon the windowpanes or glass and is visible from the exterior of the window or door.
2.48 Street. A dedicated, deeded and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular traffic, which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties.
2.49 Structure. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a fixed location on the ground, or which is attached to something having a fixed location on the ground.
2.50 Tourist Home. A dwelling in which sleeping accommodations in less than ten (10) rooms are provided or offered for the use of guests in return for compensation for a maximum thirty (30) days tenure. Any dwelling in which such accommodations are offered in ten (10) or more rooms shall be deemed to be a hotel as herein defined. The use of a dwelling as a tourist home shall not be considered an accessory use or a customary home occupation.
2.51 Tract. See "Lot," 2.32.
2.52 Use, Accessory. See "Accessory" 2.01.
2.53 Use, Conditional. See "Conditional Use," 2.13.
2.54 Use, Principal. The primary purpose for which a lot is occupied and/or used.
2.55 Variance. A modification of the strict terms of this ordinance granted by the city council where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest, and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property such as irregular lot size, topographic or other characteristics of the land and not as the result of any action on the part of the property owner, a literal enforcement of this ordinance would result in unnecessary and undue hardship. Such modification shall not authorize a principal or accessory use of the property, which is not permitted within the zoning district in which the property is located.
2.56 Yard. A required space on the same lot with a principal building, open, unoccupied, and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky except where encroachments of accessory buildings and other structures are expressly permitted. Required parking spaces may occupy yard areas if the provisions of screening are met, see 8.024.
2.57 Yard, Front. A yard situated between the front building line and the front lot line and extending the full width of the lot.
2.58 Yard, Rear. A yard situated between the rear building line and the rear lot line and extending the full width of the lot.
2.59 Yard, Side. A yard situated between a side building line and a side lot line and extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
2.60 Zoning District. See "District," 2.17.
(Ord. 6-8-20(2) )
ARTICLE III. - ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS

Section 3.00. - Certification by planning commission.
For the purposes of this ordinance, Metter, Georgia, is hereby divided into districts as shown on the official zoning map dated August 11, 1996 as certified by the planning commission to the city council. Said map is hereby made a part of this ordinance, made a public record, and shall be kept permanently in the office of the building inspector, where said map will be accessible to the general public.
Section 3.01. - Map amendment.
If, in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance, changes are made in the district boundaries or other information portrayed in the official zoning map, changes shall be made effective immediately after the amendment has been approved by the city council of Metter. A numerical entry shall be made by the city clerk on the official zoning map referring to the application on file which states the date of the official action and description of the nature of the changes approved by city council. No changes of any nature shall be made on the official zoning map or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this ordinance. Any unauthorized change of any kind by any person or persons shall be considered a violation of this ordinance and is punishable as provided by law.
Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning map, which may from time to time be made or published, the official zoning map located in the office of the building inspector shall be the final authority as to the current zoning status of land in the city.
Section 3.02. - Interpretation of district boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of districts as shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
3.021. Unless otherwise indicated, the district boundary lines are center lines of streets or blocks or such lines extended, lot or property lines, corporate limit lines, the center line of the main tracks of a railroad, a line lying in the center of a stream or drainage way, or city limits.
3.022. Where district boundary lines parallel street rights-of-way or other discernible cultural or topographical features, the distance shall be scaled from the map.
3.023. Where a district boundary line divides a lot, which is a single ownership at the time of this enactment, the use classification of the larger portion may be extended to the remainder without recourse to amendment procedure except that such extension shall not include any part of a lot that lies more than twenty-five (25) feet beyond the district boundary line.
3.024. In case the exact location of a boundary cannot be determined by the foregoing methods, the city council shall, upon application, determine the location of the boundary.
3.025. Where a public road, street, alley, or other right-of-way is officially vacated or abandoned, the regulations applicable to the property to which it is reverted shall apply to such vacated or abandoned road, street, alley, or right-of-way.
ARTICLE IV. - GENERAL PROVISIONS
The regulations set by this ordinance within each district shall be the minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure of land, except as hereinafter provided.

Section 4.00. - Use of land or buildings.
4.001. No land or building shall hereinafter be used or occupied, and no building or parts shall hereafter be constructed, erected, altered, or moved, unless in conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
4.002. No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:
a.
To exceed the original size or bulk;
b.
To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
c.
To occupy a greater percentage of the area;
d.
To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or other open spaces than herein required or in any other manner contrary to the provision of this ordinance.
4.003. No part of a yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or loading required about or in connection with any building for the purpose of complying with this ordinance shall be included as part of a yard, open space, or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other building.
4.004. Right-of-way easements for streets and roads shall not be considered a part of a lot or open space, or front, rear, or side yard for the purpose of meeting yard requirements.
Section 4.01. - Lot reduction prohibited.
No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this ordinance shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this ordinance shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this ordinance.
Section 4.02. - Use of substandard lots of record.
Where the owner of a lot at the time of the adoption of this ordinance does not own sufficient land to enable him to conform to the dimensional requirements of this ordinance, such lot may nonetheless be used as a building site provided that said lot requirements are not reduced below the minimum specified in this ordinance by more than twenty (20) percent. If, however, the owner of two or more adjoining lots with insufficient land dimensions decides to build on or sell off these lots, he must first combine said lots to comply with the dimensional requirements of the ordinance. Any lot requiring dimensional waivers below the twenty (20) percent minimum set forth in this section may be approved by the city council provided that further decreased dimensional requirements shall conform as closely as possible to the required dimensions.
Section 4.03. - Reserved.
Section 4.04. - One principal building on a lot.
Only one principal building and its customary accessory buildings may hereafter be erected on any one lot.
Section 4.05. - Planted buffer strips.
Where commercial or industrial districts abut residential districts, a ten-foot wide buffer strip shall be provided along the abutting property lines, and the ten (10) feet shall be added to the side or rear yard requirements as well as the lot width unless specified otherwise in this ordinance. Such buffer strip shall be planted with evergreen trees or shrubs that grow at least eight feet tall and provide an effective visual screen.
Section 4.06. - Vision clearance.
In all districts no fence, wall, shrubbery or other obstruction to vision between the heights of two and one-half feet and ten (10) feet above the finished grade of streets shall be erected, permitted, or maintained within twenty (20) feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines of streets or of streets and railroads.
Section 4.07. - Access to public streets.
Access to public streets shall be maintained in accordance with the following requirements:
4.071. Each principal use shall be located on a lot or parcel which provides frontage on a public street having a right-of-way of not less than thirty (30) feet.
4.072. Any additional dwelling shall have access to a public street by means of a passageway open to the sky at least fifteen (15) feet in width.
4.073. Local streets which will carry less than six hundred (600) vehicles per day may have access points as needed to fit the development. Collector streets and arterial streets which are projected to carry more than six hundred (600) vehicles per day shall have a minimum distance between access points equal to seven times the speed limit for that street.
4.074. For all developments fronting on a state highway, no land use permit or sign permit shall be issued until the appraisal of the Georgia Department of Transportation (DOT) has been obtained regarding access points, curb radii, drainage and related engineering design of concern to the DOT as well as the planning commission and the city council.
Section 4.08. - Corner lots.
On lots having frontage on more than one street at an intersection, the minimum front yard requirement may be reduced to one-half the regulated distance on the portion of the lot fronting on the street or streets of lesser importance. However, in no case shall the setback be reduced to less than fifteen (15) feet. The minimum front yard for the portion of the lot fronting on the street of greater importance shall be provided in accordance with the provisions established by this ordinance for the district in which the lot is located.
Section 4.09. - Double frontage lots.
On lots having frontage on two streets, but not located on a corner, the minimum front yard shall be provided on each street in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance. On lots having frontage on more than two streets, the minimum front yard shall be provided in accordance with the regulations set forth in this ordinance on at least two of the street frontages. The minimum front yard on the other frontage or frontages may be reduced along the other streets in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08.
Section 4.10. - Front yard requirements.
The setback requirements of this ordinance shall not apply to any lot where the average setback on already built upon lots located wholly or in part within one hundred (100) feet on each side of such lot and within the block and zoning district and fronting on the same street as such lot is less than the minimum required setback. In such cases, the setback of said lot may be less than the required setback but not less than the average of the existing setbacks on the developed lots. However, in no case shall setbacks be less than fifteen (15) feet.
Section 4.11. - Code requirements and state regulations.
All structures shall meet the requirements of all adopted codes in effect including, but not limited to department of transportation and state fire marshal regulations, building codes, plumbing code, electrical code, fire prevention code, and housing code. Where such codes exceed the minimum requirements of this ordinance, the stricter provisions shall apply.
ARTICLE V. - ZONING DISTRICT SCHEDULES
EXPAND
Districts Definition Examples of Basic
Intent and Uses
PEH Park, Education and Health Parks, education, public and private schools, hospitals, office buildings. Private day care centers, clinics, cemeteries.
PW Public Works Utilities, maintenance facilities, public garages, fire stations. Radio, TV, transmitting tower, waste disposal treatments.
R-1 One-Family Residential Low-density single-family dwellings, excluding manufactured homes. Churches.
R-2 One-Family Residential Medium density single-family dwellings, excluding manufactured homes. Churches.
R-3 One- and Two-Family Residential Medium density one- and two-family dwellings, excluding manufactured homes. Churches and health care facilities.
R-4 Multiple-Unit Residential Medium-high density residential, multiple-family units. Manufactured home parks, churches, day care, and health care.
R-5M One-Family Residential Medium density single-family dwellings Churches, home occupations, and parks and playgrounds (conditional use approved by the ZAB).
R-O Residential-Professional Offices Single-family dwellings and professional offices, excluding manufactured homes. Residences, professional offices.
CR Neighborhood and General Commercial Convenience stores and service stations. Retail, wholesale, storage and services. Auto service stations. Off-site signs, repair garages.
HOC Highway Oriented Commercial Highway oriented establishments. Off-site signs, repair garages.
HOC-1-A Highway Oriented Commercial Highway oriented with restrictions. Alcohol sales incidental. Restriction on repair facilities.
CBD Central Business District Shops, services, and offices serving regional trade area. Downtown core area. Drive-in services.
LI Light Industrial Limited manufacturing, warehouses, repair garages, industrial parks. CR uses.
HI Heavy Industrial General manufacturing, large space users. LI uses. CR uses. Junk, salvage yards.
  EXPAND
Zone Dwelling Family Size R-1
one R-2
one R-3
one R-3
two R-4
one R-4
two R-4
multi R-5M
one R-O
one
Minimum Requirements
Lot Area (sq ft) 20,000 15,000 10,000 15,000 10,000 15,000 5,000 plus 5,000/unit 10,000 15,000
Lot Width (ft) 100 80 80 100 80 100 200 80 80
Front Yard Setback (ft) 40 40 25 25 25 25 50 25 40
Side Yards (ft) 10 10 10 10 10 10 25 10 10
Aggregate Side Yards (ft) 30 30 30
Corner Side Yards (ft) 40 40 25 25 25 25 25 25 40
Rear Yards (ft) 40 30 25 25 25 25 25 25 40
Side Rear Yards adjacent to Residential (ft) 50
Dwelling Width (ft) 15 25 20 20 12 12 12 20 25
Dwelling Length (ft) 50 40 40 40 60 60 60 40 40
Dwelling area (sq ft) 1,500 1,300 1,100 1,100 800 800 800 1,100 1,300
Maximum Limitations
Total Building Coverage (%) 10 20 25 25 25 25 15 25 15
Height (ft) 35 35 35 35 35 35 35 35 35
Height/
(stories) 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3
Accessory Bldg Height (ft) 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15
Accessory Bldg Height (stories) 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Accessory Bldg Side Yards (ft) 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10
Accessory Bldg Rear Yards (ft) 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5
Access Bldg Corner Yards (ft) 40 40 40 40 40 40 40 40 40
Agricultural Bldg Height (ft) 40 40 40
  EXPAND
Zone PEH PW CBD CR HOC L-I H-I
Minimum Requirements
Lot Area (sq ft) 6,000 7,500 ** 15,000 1 acre 80,000
Lot Width (ft) 60 75 100 200 250
Front Yard Setback (ft) 50 25 15 15 40 50 50
Side Yards (ft) 25 15 5 5 25 30 30
Corner Side Yards (ft) 35 25
Rear Yards (ft) 25 15 20 20 25 30 30
Side Yards adjacent to R-x (ft) same as R-x same as R-x 35 200 200
Between Buildings ***
Maximum Limitations
Total Building Coverage (%) 25 35 80 85 30 40 40
Uses per 100 ft Road Frontage 1 1
Height (ft) (max1/
max2) * 35/50 25/40 35/65 40/65
Height (stories) 3 2 4 4 4 4 4
  NOTES
*With no planning commission approval, height can go to max 1.
With planning commission approval, height can go to max 2.
But each yard requirement goes up one foot for each height foot over max 1.
**Five acres for a planned center.
***Height of taller building.
ARTICLE VI. - LIST OF PERMISSIBLE AND CONDITIONAL USES
On the following table, a "CU" means the uses will be permitted in that district only if a conditional use permit is granted by the city council. An "X" means that the use is permitted in the zone district subject to the general provisions of the zoning ordinance. For uses not included on this list, where the building inspector is unable to determine placement, application shall be made to the planning commission for interpretation. Symbols may be added or removed from this table only by following Article XIII, Amendments.
EXPAND
Permissible and Conditional Uses R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-O PEH PW CBD CR HOC HOC-
I-A L-I H-I
Advertising display mfg., sales CU CU CU CU
Airport, Public & Private X X X
Alcohol, Off-sale X X X CU CU
Alcohol Off-sale, incidental X X X X CU CU
Alcohol, on-sale X X X CU CU
Alcohol, on-sale, incidental X X X X CU CU
Amusement center, pvt ent operated X X X X CU CU
Amusement park, race track CU CU CU CU CU
Animal hospital, Veterinarian CU X X X X
Association (clubs, lodges) X X X X X
Athletic club CU X X X
Athletic field CU X X X X
Auditorium, assembly hall X X X X X X X X
Auto/truck sales, repair parts X X X X X
Auto/truck salvage, scrap yard CU CU
Bait sales X X X X X
Baked goods-large scale CU CU CU X X X X X
Banks, savings & loan X X X X X
Barber CU CU X X X X X
Bar, cocktail lounge, tavern, nightclub X X X CU CU
Beauty shop CU CU X X X X X
Boarding, rooming house CU X X X X
Boat, mobile home, farm/heavy equip sales X X X X X
Bottle gas, storage & distribution X X X X X
Bowling alley X X X X X X
Broadcast studio (radio, TV) X X X X X X
Builder's equipment-material storage CU X X X X X
Campground, public-private CU X X
Carnival X X X
Carpentry shop, woodworking X CU X X X X
Carpet & rug sales, storage X X X X X X
Cemetery CU
Cesspool builder, sales-service CU CU CU X X
Church, synagogue CU CU CU CU CU X X X X X
Circus X X X
Clinic, public-private CU X X X X X
Community center CU X X X X X X
Contractor equipment-material storage O X X X X X
Country club CU X
Crematorium CU CU CU
Curio and souvenir shops CU X X X X X
Day care home See home occupation
Day care group CU CU X X X X X X
Day care center X X X X X X
Disposal plant, sewage X CU CU CU CU CU
Drive-in restaurant CU X X CU CU
Driving range, golf CU X X CU CU
Dump (solid-liquid waste disposal) CU CU
Dwelling, single-family X X X X X CU CU CU CU
Dwelling, two-family X X CU X X X
Dwelling, multi-family group X CU X X X
Eggs, poultry fair, processing CU
Electric, power yards, substation CU CU CU CU CU CU X CU CU X X X X
Fairs X X X
Farmlands (except livestock) CU CU CU CU CU X X X X X
Farmlands (include livestock) CU CU CU CU CU
Fire station; fire tower CU CU CU CU CU X CU X X X X X X
Fish-meat; wholesale, cure, store X X X X X X
Fish hatchery X X
Flea Market X CU X
Florist, green house CU CU X X X X X X X
Forest land, tree farm, plant nursery CU CU CU CU CU X X X X X X X
Frozen, cold storage locker X X X X X X
Fruits CU CU X X X
Funeral home CU X X X X X X
Garage, public, repair CU X CU CU X X X X
Gasoline; service station X X X X
Gasoline, oil fuel; bulk storage tank X X X
Golf, miniature, driving range X CU X X X X
Golf course CU X
Go-cart, motorbike track CU CU CU CU CU
Gravel pit CU CU CU X
Grocery store X X X X X
Historic site, marker, display X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Home-elderly, children, nursing CU X CU CU X X
Home occupation X X X X X X X X X X
Hospital, health care facility CU X CU X X
Hotel, motel X X X X X
Housing, multi-family project X CU X X X
Ice, mfg, sales CU CU X X X X
Imported good, warehouse-sales X X X X X
Junk and salvage CU CU
Kennel CU X X X X
Laboratory, research-commercial CU X X X X X
Laundry; self-serve X X X X CU CU
Laundry, dry cleaning: pickup station X X X X X
Laundry, dry cleaning plant X X X X X X
Livestock sale barn CU X
Machine shop, metal fabrication X CU CU CU CU X
Manufactured home X
Manufactured home park CU CU CU
Manufacturing, heavy, general CU X
Manufacturing, light, limited CU X X
Mining, quarry-equipment storage CU CU X X
Museum, historical display CU X X X X X X X
Office building X X X X X X X
Parking lot CU X X X X X X X X
Park and playground CU CU CU CU CU X X X X X X X CU
Paving, temporary batch plant X CU CU CU CU X
Personal services (tailor, etc.) CU CU X X X X X
Police, sheriff, highway patrol CU X X X X X X X
Printing, photo-engraving X X X X X X
Produce X X X
Professional Office CU CU CU X X X X X X
Public building, utility plant CU X CU CU CU CU X X
Public service-except utility plant X X X X X X X X
Radio-TV, transit; station-studio X CU X X X X
Real estate office CU X X X X X CU
Religious tents X X X
Restaurants, cafés X X X X X X
Retail store CU CU X X X X X CU
Roadside park, wayside CU CU X X X X X X X
Sawmill lumber yard CU X
School, public-private CU CU CU CU CU X CU
School, commercial (beauty-business) CU X X X X X X X
Sewage disposal plant X CU CU CU CU CU
Sign, on-site See Article IX
Sign, off-site CU CU
Skating rink, roller and ice CU CU X X X CU CU
Storage warehouse CU X X X X X
Storage yard, equipment X CU CU CU CU X X
Swimming pool, private X X X X X X X X X X X
Swimming pool, public X X X X X X
Taxidermist X X X X X X
Tire repairing-supplies CU X X X X X
Telephone, tower, substation CU X CU X X X X X
Theater X X X X X X
Timber harvesting-logging X X X X
Tourist home, bed & breakfast X X X CU
Travel trailer, RV park CU CU X X CU
Vegetables X X X
Water reservoir facilities CU X X X
Welding Shop CU CU X X X X
Wholesale distribution CU X X X X X
  (Ord. 6-8-20(2) )
EXPAND
for see for see
apparel store retail sales oil gasoline
agriculture farm lands plant nursery forestland
assembly hall auditorium play school child care
batch plant paving playground park
bed & breakfast tourist poultry eggs
beer alcohol power electric
cafe restaurant quarry mining
car auto race track amusement park
children home radio broadcast
club association restaurant drive in
cocktail lounge bar restaurant restaurant
cold storage frozen rooming house boarding house
day care home rug carpet
dry cleaning laundry RV park travel trailer
elderly home salvage junk
farm boat savings & loan bank
fuel gasoline sewage disposal
golf driving range sheriff police
greenhouse florist solid waste dump
health care hospital souvenir curio
heavy equipment boat synagogue church
highway patrol police tailor personal service
home dwelling tavern bar
house dwelling tree farm forest land
liquid waste dump truck auto
liquor alcohol TV broadcast
livestock farmland TV radio
lodge association utility plant public
logging timber veterinarian kennel
lumber sawmill woodworking carpentry
mobile home boat mobile home manufactured
motel hotel motorbike go-cart
nightclub bar nursing home
  ARTICLE VII. - NONCONFORMING USES

Section 7.00. - Nonconforming uses.
Nonconforming uses are declared by this ordinance to be incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved.
To avoid undue hardship, the lawful use of any building or land at the time of the enactment of this ordinance may be continued, even though such use does not conform to the provisions of this ordinance.
The nonconforming building or land use shall not be changed to another nonconforming use.
The nonconforming building or land use shall not be reestablished after discontinuance for one year or more.
A lawful nonconforming use may be continued into any new building erected on that lot.
A lawful nonconforming use may be continued onto an adjoining lot if a variance is provided.
Any new structure and alterations, extensions, or additions to existing structures shall conform to all the height, area, width, yard and coverage requirements for the district in which the lot is located.
A nonconforming building, which has been damaged or destroyed, may be reconstructed and used for the same nonconforming use.
Reconstruction shall start within two years from the date the building was damaged or destroyed.
Reconstruction shall be carried on without interruption.
If the original building did not meet any of the required height, area, width, yard and coverage dimensions, the reconstructed building can use the original building's dimension.
Under extenuating circumstances, the owner may appeal to the board of zoning appeals for an extension to the two-year period.
Nothing in this Article shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition any building or part thereof declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety or health, upon order of such official.
Section 7.01. - Nonconforming signs.
Signs existing and in place at the time of enactment of Section 7.01 which is not in compliance with the requirements of this ordinance are nonconforming signs.
Nonconforming signs existing on that date shall be exempt from fees or the requirement to apply for a permit.
However, any temporary or portable sign existing at that time shall be considered a nonconforming sign only for ninety (90) days. After that period, it shall be removed.
If nonconforming sign is replaced or renovated, the resulting sign must comply with the requirements of this ordinance. "Renovated" in this sentence means drastically, physically altered. Normal maintenance (such as painting) does not change the status of the sign.
If a nonconforming sign is replaced with a sign in conformance with this ordinance, the fees for a sign permit on the replacement sign will be waived.
Nonconforming signs shall be kept in the same manner of maintenance and repair as conforming signs. A nonconforming sign declared unsafe by the building inspector shall, be removed.
ARTICLE VIII. - SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS

Section 8.00. - Home occupation.
A home occupation shall be permitted in any dwelling, provided that such occupation:
(a)
Is conducted by no other persons than those residing on the premises;
(b)
Is conducted entirely out-of-sight of neighboring properties within the principal building.
(c)
Utilizes not more than twenty-five (25) percent of the total floor area of the principal building;
(d)
Produces no alteration or change in the character of exterior appearance of the principal building from that of a dwelling;
(e)
Creates no disturbing or offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odor, heat, glare, traffic hazard, parking problem, voltage fluctuation, radio or television interference, open storage of materials or stock, unhealthy or unsightly conditions; and
(f)
Is not visibly evident from outside the dwelling except for a non-illuminated sign no larger than four square feet in size mounted against a wall of the principal building.
Section 8.01. - Accessory uses.
In addition to the principal uses, each of the following uses is considered to be a customary accessory use, and as such, may be situated on the same lot with the principal use or uses to which it serves as an accessory provided that setback and yard requirements are met.
8.011. Uses customarily accessory to dwellings.
(a)
Private garage not to exceed the following storage capacities: one- or two-family dwelling-four automobiles; multi-family dwelling-two automobiles per dwelling unit; group dwelling-1.5 automobiles per sleeping room.
(b)
Open space or parking area for recreational vehicles and motor vehicles provided that such space does not exceed the maximum respective storage capacities listed above, and provided that such space shall not be used for more than one commercial vehicle per family residing on the premises.
(c)
Shed or tool room for the storage of equipment used in grounds or building maintenance.
(d)
Children playhouse and play equipment.
(e)
Quarters for the keeping of pets owned by occupants for noncommercial purposes provided that such use does not generate a nuisance to adjoining properties.
(f)
Private swimming pool and bathhouse or cabana.
(g)
Structures designed and used for purposes of emergency shelter in the event of manmade or natural catastrophes.
(h)
Noncommercial greenhouse or slat house.
8.012. Uses customarily accessory to church buildings.
(a)
Religious education buildings.
(b)
Parsonage, pastorium, or parish house, together with any use accessory to a dwelling as listed above.
(c)
Off-street parking area for the use without charge of members and visitors to the church.
8.013. Uses customarily accessory to retail business, office uses, and commercial recreational facilities.
(a)
Off-street parking or storage area for customers, clients, and employee-owned vehicles.
(b)
Completely enclosed building and customarily arranged outdoor displays for the storage of supplies, stock, or merchandise.
(c)
Light manufacturing, and/or repair facility incidental to the principal use provided that dust, odor, smoke, noise, vibration, heat, or glare produced as a result of such manufacturing or repair operation is not perceptible from any boundary line of the lot on which said principal and accessory uses are located and provided such operation is not otherwise specifically prohibited in the district in which the principal use is located.
8.014. Uses customarily accessory to public uses, buildings, or activities.
Same as 8.013. There shall be no further limitations regarding accessory uses to any use, building, or activity operated within the public domain except that such uses, buildings, or activities must be directly related and subordinate to the principal public use.
Section 8.02. - Off-street parking.
Areas suitable for parking or storing automobiles in out of public rights-of-way in off road or off-street locations shall hereafter be required in all districts at the time of the initial construction of any principal building; or when a structural alteration or other change in a principal building produces an increase in dwelling units, guest rooms, floor area, seating or bed capacity, or when a conversion in use occurs. Such off-street parking spaces shall have direct access to a public road, street, or alley and shall be provided and maintained in accordance with the following requirements:
EXPAND
Required Parking
Residential Activities
Single-Family Dwellings Two (2) spaces
Any residential use consisting of two (2) more dwelling units. One and one-half (1½) spaces for each dwelling or unit.
Tourist homes, motels, and hotels. One (1) space for each accommodation unit plus one (1) space for each three (3) employees.
Apartments and Group Dwellings One (1) space for each three (3) guest rooms, plus one (1) space for each five employees.
Public and Semipublic Uses
Hospitals, Clinics, and Nursing Homes One (1) space for each four (4) beds plus one (1) space for each staff or visiting doctor plus one (1) space for each four (4) employees at maximum employment on a single shift.
Churches, Stadiums, and other places One (1) space for each two (2) staff members or Public Assembly employees plus one (1) space for each four (4) seats in the principal assembly room.
Places of assembly or indoor recreation One (1) space for each two hundred (200) without fixed seats square feet of gross floor space directed to patron use.
Schools, elementary, and middle One (1) space for each classroom and administrative office employee.
Schools, senior high One (1) space for each classroom and administrative office employee plus one (1) space for each ten (10) seats or one (1) space for each two hundred (200) square feet of area used for public assembly whichever is greater.
Other Public Buildings One (1) space for each three hundred (300) square feet of gross floor space.
Business Activities
Medical, Dental, and Optical offices Five (5) spaces per doctor, dentist, and optician.
Professional and Business Offices, not otherwise specifically enumerated One (1) space for each three hundred (300) square feet of gross floor space.
Banks One (1) space for each one hundred (100) square feet of gross floor space plus five (5) spaces for each drive-in window.
Service and Repair Establishments, not otherwise specifically enumerated One (1) space for each two hundred fifty (250) square feet of floor area not used for storage.
Retail Businesses, not otherwise specifically enumerated One (1) space for each three hundred (300) square feet of retail floor space.
Auto, Truck, and Mobile Home Sales, Outdoor Equipment and Machinery Sales Commercial Plant Nurseries Four (4) spaces for each sales person plus one for each other employee
Restaurants, Theaters, Night Clubs, and other such places of public assembly One (1) space for each four (4) seating accommodations plus one (1) space for each two (2) employees on shift of greatest employment.
Service Stations Two (2) spaces for each gasoline pump plus three (3) spaces for each grease rack and wash rack plus one (1) space for each attendant.
Funeral Homes One (1) space for each four (4) seats in chapel or parlor plus sufficient space to park or store all company vehicles.
Wholesale and Industrial Uses
Wholesaling and Industrial Uses including lumber, brick, salvage, and supply yards One (1) space for each employee at maximum employment on a single shift, plus space for all company vehicles operating from the premises.
  8.021. Parking space area requirements. Including aisles, entrances and exits, each required off-street parking area, lot, or other facility shall contain a minimum of three hundred (300) square feet of space for each automobile to be accommodated.
8.022. Location on other property. If the required automobile parking space cannot reasonably be provided on the same lot on which the principal use is conducted, such spaces may be provided on the other off-street property provided such property lies within five hundred (500) feet of the main entrance to such principal use. Such automobile parking space shall be associated with the principal use and shall not thereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
8.023. Common off-street parking areas. Two or more principal uses may utilize a common area in order to comply with off-street requirements, provided that the total number of individual spaces available in such common area is not less than the sum of the spaces required for the individual uses as separately computed in accordance with the provisions of this section, and provided that the owner of said lot relinquishes his development rights over the property until such time as parking space is provided elsewhere.
8.024. Screening of parking lots, junk and salvage yards. Off-street parking lots, whether public or private for more than five vehicles and all junk and salvage yards shall be effectively screened by a fence, wall, or evergreen plant material when located within or visible from a PEH or R-X zoning district. The screen shall meet the following standards:
(a)
The last ten (10) feet adjoining such district shall be developed as a planted landscape buffer with plant materials to be installed and maintained by the property owner.
(b)
A landscape-planting plan is to be submitted to the building inspector and approved prior to the issuance of a land use permit. Installation of plant materials or other screening devices shall have been completed prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(c)
Plant materials shall consist of at least one evergreen tree or shrub six feet in height or one tree with a minimum trunk caliper of two inches for each twenty-five (25) lineal feet of buffer screen.
(d)
Where healthy trees or other native plant material exists on a site prior to its development, islands and buffers of such material shall be incorporated into the parking lot design with special attention to the saving and preservation of trees with trunk caliper of four inches or more.
(e)
An overall minimum average of one tree or shrub as described above occupying a planting space of sixty-four (64) square feet shall be furnished for each ten (10) cars on the interior and for each five cars on the perimeter of the parking lot.
8.025. Access to parking lots. A plan of entrances, exits, and storm water drainage shall be submitted to the building inspector and approved prior to the issuance of a land use permit for off-street parking lots, whether public or private, for more than five vehicles. Installation of entrances, exits, and drainage systems shall have been completed prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy. Unless special circumstances make it impractical, curb cuts not wider than twenty-four (24) feet for entrances into or exits from parking lots shall be no closer than one hundred (100) feet apart measured from centerline to centerline.
8.026. Extension of parking space into a residential district. Required parking space may extend up to three hundred (300) feet into an adjoining residential district, provided that:
(a)
It has its access to or fronts upon the same street as the property in the commercial or industrial district for which it provides the required parking space; and
(b)
It is separated from abutting properties in the residential district by a ten-foot wide buffer strip, screened and maintained as provided by 8.024.
8.027. Paved Parking Lots. Parking Lots must be improved with an asphalt, concrete, brick, paving stone or similar surface.
Section 8.03. - Off-street loading and unloading spaces.
Every lot on which a business, trade, or industry is hereafter established shall provide space as indicated herein for the loading and unloading of vehicles off the street. Such space shall have access to any alley or, if there is no alley, to a public street. For the purpose of this section, an off-street loading space shall have the minimum dimensions of twelve (12) feet by forty (40) feet and be clear and be free of obstructions at all times. Required space shall be considered as follows:
(a)
Retail business: one space for each five thousand (5,000) feet of gross floor area.
(b)
Wholesale, industrial, governmental, and institutional uses, including public assembly places, hospitals and education institutions, one space for the first twenty-five thousand (25,000) square feet of total floor area. For anything in excess of twenty-five thousand (25,000) square feet, such uses shall provide loading spaces according to the following schedule:
EXPAND
Square Feet No. of Spaces
25,001—99,999 2
100,000—159,999 3
160,000—239,999 4
240,000—349,999 5
For each additional 100,000 or fraction thereof 1 additional
  Section 8.04a. - Manufactured homes.
Manufactured homes shall comply with the standards established under the National Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 USC § 5401 et seq.
The foundations upon which manufactured homes are affixed shall be in compliance with the Permanent Foundations Guide for Manufactured House, 1996, as the same may be amended and/or modified from time to time.
Every manufactured home located within the city shall;
Have axles, wheels, and hitch mechanisms, if any, removed;
Be connected to an approved water supply, approved waste disposal system and electrical supply similar to site-built housing;
Be landscaped with trees, shrubs, and other plant materials substantially equal to or better than adjoining dwellings; and
Be underpinned with such materials and of such general appearance as to be compatible and harmonious with adjacent structures in the neighborhood and such other public health and welfare considerations as are deemed necessary by city officials.
Section 8.04b. - Manufactured home parks.
Manufactured home parks hereafter established or expanded shall meet the following minimum requirements:
(a)
Site shall be no less than five acres suitable for development.
(b)
Lot area per manufactured home site shall not be less than five thousand (5,000) square feet.
(c)
No manufactured home or related accessory structure shall be closer than thirty (30) feet to any other manufactured home or accessory, nor closer than forty (40) feet from any other structure.
(d)
Shall conform to all specifications of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development as expressed in publications relating to minimum property requirements for manufactured home parks or manufactured home communities.
(e)
Shall be provided with a twenty-foot planted buffer screen between the manufactured home park and all other land uses and between the manufactured home park and any public street frontage consisting of evergreen shrubs not less than six feet tall and at least one tree with a minimum trunk caliper of two inches for each twenty-five (25) lineal feet of buffer screen.
Section 8.05. - Housing standards.
Dwelling units shall comply with the following minimum standards:
(a)
The roof shall have a minimum 2:12 pitch and shall have a surface of wood shakes, asphalt composition, wood shingles, concrete, fiberglass or metal tiles, slate, or built-up gravel materials.
(b)
The exterior siding material shall consist of wood, masonry, concrete, stucco, maisonette, metal or vinyl lap, or other materials of like appearance.
(c)
The structure must be attached to a permanent foundation in accordance with the manufacturer's requirements and those of the building codes of the City of Metter.
(d)
The structure must not have any attached means of transportation, such as axles, wheels, pulling tongues, or hitches.
(e)
The area beneath the structure shall be enclosed with a facing of brick, stucco, concrete, stone, metal, vinyl, wood, or like materials approved by the building inspector.
(f)
Each exterior door must have compatible steps, porches, or landings adjacent to the threshold, and these steps, porches, or landings shall be constructed in accordance with the building codes of the City of Metter.
(g)
The structure shall be connected with an approved water source, sewage disposal system, and electrical service as required, inspected, and approved by the City of Metter.
(h)
In addition to the above standards, the structure must be of such like size, materials, and general appearance as to be compatible and harmonious with adjacent structures and the neighborhood and such other public health and welfare considerations as deemed necessary by the city council.
Section 8.06. - Proximity restrictions.
A church may not locate within one hundred (100) yards of any establishment licensed for distilled spirits.
A school building, educational building, school grounds, college campus or alcoholic treatment center may not locate within two hundred (200) yards of any establishment licensed for distilled spirits.
A church, school building, educational building, school grounds, college campus, or alcoholic treatment center may not locate within one hundred (100) yards of any establishment licensed for beer, wine or malt beverages.
Section 8.07. - Conditional professional offices.
If the city council issues a conditional use permit for a professional office in a residential zone, the following additional restrictions apply:
The building type must complement the building types of nearby residences in the zone.
Parking must be in the rear of the building.
A visual screen (such as planted buffer strip defined in Section 4.05 or as defined by the city council) must exist between the professional office use and existing (or potential) adjoining residences.
Section 8.08. - Large truck parking in residential areas.
In districts zoned for residential use, no person shall park or store any vehicle over ten thousand (10,000) pounds gross vehicle weight or twenty-four (24) feet in length except for the purpose of loading or unloading such vehicle. The loading or unloading of such vehicle shall be done within a reasonable time but not to exceed forty-eight (48) hours. No truck body, trailer, or truck tractor, or part thereof may be parked or stored within the districts herein described unless specifically authorized by this ordinance. Recreational vehicles, motor homes, campers, boat trailers, and similar vehicles used solely for noncommercial or personal recreation use shall not come within this prohibition if such vehicle is parked or stored within a garage or enclosed area, or within the rear yard of a lot not closer than five feet to any lot line.
Section 8.09. - Conditional day care groups.
The following minimum conditions apply to the conditional use of a day care group in a residential area:
The day care group is located in a private residence occupied by the person providing the day care.
The premises access a thoroughfare adequate for traffic.
The facility shall have at least thirty (30) square feet of indoor play area for each child.
The facility shall have at least one hundred (100) square feet of outdoor play area for each child.
The outdoor play area shall be fenced with at least a four-foot high fence.
The premises must contain adequate off-street loading and unloading.
The day care portion of the dwelling shall not occupy over twenty-five (25) percent of the heated square feet of the dwelling.
All signs must comply with Article IX, Sign Regulations.
Off-street employee parking shall provide one and one-half parking spaces per employee.
The applicant must provide a site plan indicating parking, pickup and drop off points, and playground areas.
The city council may define other conditions to promote the health, safety and welfare of the neighborhood.
ARTICLE IX. - SIGN REGULATIONS

Section 9.00. - General provisions.
The sign regulations derive from these concerns:
•
The safe and efficient flow of motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic;
•
The protection of public and private property values by assuring the compatibility of signs with surrounding land uses;
•
The ability of property owners to enjoy or use their property without undue visual obstruction, distraction or hazard;
•
The preservation and protection of properties and areas having historic, recreational, educational, cultural, religious values and environments;
•
The elimination of potential hazards arising during times of inclement weather or other natural disaster;
•
The control of the proliferation and placement of signs that pose a threat to the aesthetic and environmental values and quality of life.
The following regulations shall apply to all permitted signs:
9.001. A sign permit shall be required for the erection, alteration, or reconstruction of any sign unless otherwise noted.
9.002. Signs must be aesthetically pleasing and compatible with the surrounding area. In particular, permanent signs shall have a professional appearance instead of a homemade look. Signs on commercial lots bordering residential areas shall blend in with the neighborhood.
9.003. Signs must be constructed of durable materials maintained in good condition and not permitted to become dilapidated.
9.004. With the exception of temporary, special event or spectacular and window signs, all signs shall be constructed of permanent materials and permanently attached to the ground, building or other structure.
9.005. All signs must be designed to withstand winds of eighty (80) miles per hour.
9.006. All signs shall be maintained in good structural condition, aesthetically pleasing in appearance, and in compliance with all building and electrical codes. The following deficiencies reflect a lack of care: rust spots; loose boards; faded paint or lettering; chipped or faded lettering; burned out lights; missing, broken, faded, or damaged panels; loose or missing inspection plates; faded or tattered flags or banners; or overall appearance not consistent with other signs in the area.
9.007. If several lots of records, which are contiguous and adjacent, have been combined for a single purpose, then the lots shall be considered as a single lot in determining the size, height and use requirements.
9.008. When two sign faces are identical and back-to-back, so that both faces cannot be viewed from any one point at the same time, the sign's area shall be computed by the measurement of one of the faces.
Section 9.01. - Prohibited signs.
The following signs are prohibited:
9.011. Signs imitating warning signals. No signs shall display intermittent lights resembling lights customarily used in traffic signals or in police, fire, ambulance, or rescue vehicles, nor shall any sign use the words "stop," "danger," or any other word, phrase, symbol, or character in a manner that might mislead or confuse an automobile or other vehicle driver.
9.012. Signs within street or highway rights-of-way. Except as herein provided, no sign whatever, whether temporary or permanent, except traffic signs, signals and information signs erected by a public agency, is permitted within any street or highway right-of-way.
9.013. Certain attached and painted signs. Signs painted on or attached to trees, fence posts, and telephone or utility poles or signs painted on or attached to rocks or other natural features or painted on the roofs of buildings are prohibited. Some signs painted onto roofs are permitted under the provisions of Section 9.03, Subsection 9.031b.
9.014. Pennants and ribbons. Pennants, ribbons, strings of lights (other than holiday lights), and similar devices are prohibited.
9.015. Off-site signs on roofs and walls. No off-site signs shall be hereafter erected in any permitted district except freestanding ground signs of sound construction and maintenance. All other signs shall become nonconforming uses upon the effective date of this ordinance.
9.016. Blinking or flashing signs. No sign shall be erected or maintained on which any word, symbol or design is displayed by means of electric lights which flash or blink or are otherwise illuminated intermittently.
9.017. Projecting or Swinging Signs. No projecting or swinging signs shall be permitted.
9.018. Portable Signs. No portable signs shall be permitted. Section 2.47 defines a portable sign as any sign, which is not permanently attached to the ground or other permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported by wheels or trailer.
9.19. Beacons. No beacons shall be permitted.
9.019a. Adult Nudity. No sign depicting adult nudity shall be permitted.
Section 9.02. - Signs for which a permit is not required.
A permit is not required for the following types of signs:
9.021. Traffic, directional, warning, or information signs authorized by any public agency.
9.022. Official notices issued by a court, public agency, or officer.
9.023. One non-illuminated construction project sign, real estate sign ("for sale", "for rent", "for lease"), or garage sale sign. The maximum height of such signs shall be five feet. In residential districts, such signs shall not exceed nine square feet. In nonresidential districts, such signs shall not exceed twenty (20) square feet. Such signs shall be removed when their temporary purpose has been served.
9.024. Three non-illuminated political signs not exceeding nine square feet each in residential districts. The maximum height of such signs shall be five feet. Such signs shall be removed when their temporary purpose has been served.
9.025. One permitted home occupation sign provided it is not illuminated, no larger than four square feet, and mounted against a wall of the principal building.
9.026. Seasonal or holiday lights and decorations.
9.027. Up to two flags or non-advertising banners on a lot. No flag or banner shall be displayed with dimensions larger than five feet in width and ten (10) feet in length. Except, the American flag has no maximum size.
9.028. Building markers, identification signs, and incidental signs of less than nine square feet.
9.029. Window signs provided they cover no more than fifty (50) percent of the window space.
Section 9.03. - Regulations applying to specified types of on-site signs.
The following regulations apply to the following specified types of signs:
9.031a. Roof signs. Not more than one on-site structure may be erected on the roof of any one building. No roof sign shall extend more than twenty (20) feet above the elevation of the roof:
9.031b. Signs painted onto roofs. A painted-on-roof sign may be permitted on a building sited in an H.O.C. zoning district (or in an LI zoning district within one hundred (100) yards of an H.O.C. boundary) only as a special exception to be considered by city council. The standards for approval shall include, but are not limited to the following:
1.
Compatibility. The sign shall be compatible with the architecture of the building on which the sign is placed and shall be complimentary to surrounding buildings, signs, and the natural environment. The sign shall be normally and customarily associated with the type of business on which it is to be located. The design and colors of the sign shall be approved by city council prior to placement.
2.
Size and surface requirements. Such sign shall comprise no more than forty-five (45) percent of the square footage of the roof elevation in which it is located. Moreover, all signage must be painted on the surface of the existing roof, and any additional elevation or extension to the roof is prohibited.
3.
Maintenance. The sign shall be maintained at all times and may not exhibit flaking paint.
9.032. Wall signs. On-site signs on the walls of a building, including signs attached flat against the wall, painted wall signs, and projecting signs shall meet the following requirements:
(a)
The total area of signs on the exterior front surface of a building shall not exceed twenty (20) percent of the front surface of the building.
(b)
The total area of signs on a side or rear surface of a building shall not exceed twenty-five (25) percent of the exterior side or rear surface of the building respectively.
(c)
The combined sign area on the front, side, and rear surface of a building shall not exceed six hundred (600) square feet.
(d)
Wall signs attached flat against a wall may extend not more than twenty-four (24) inches beyond the wall.
(e)
Signs projecting from a wall may extend outward from the wall of a building not more than six and one-half feet and may be located not closer than eighteen (18) inches to a vertical plane at the street curb line. A projecting sign shall not extend above the roofline a distance greater than the height of the roof above the ground level. In no case shall signs project beyond property lines. The minimum height above grade of sidewalk level of such signs shall be no less than ten (10) feet.
Signs on a canopy, signs on a marquee, and projecting signs are considered wall signs when determining maximum size.
9.033. Freestanding signs. Not more than one freestanding sign shall be permitted on a lot.
Except if the lot faces more than one street, each street may have a freestanding sign.
In the H.O.C. zoning district, freestanding signs shall not exceed two hundred (200) square feet in area. In other zoning districts, freestanding signs shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet in area.
In the H.O.C. zoning district, freestanding signs shall not exceed forty-five (45) feet in height. In other zoning districts, freestanding signs shall not exceed thirty (30) feet in height.
Freestanding signs shall not be closer than ten (10) feet to a property line or right-of-way line.
Freestanding signs shall not be closer than one hundred (100) feet from another freestanding sign.
9.034. Temporary Signs. A temporary sign is any sign, which is not permanently erected, affixed, or maintained on a premise for a long period of time.
The maximum size of a temporary sign shall be one hundred (100) square feet.
If a temporary sign is freestanding, its maximum height shall be five feet.
Permits for temporary signs on private property shall be allowed upon issuance of a temporary sign permit.
Temporary sign permits shall be less complicated than normal sign permits. The fee shall be lower than the fee for a normal sign permit.
A temporary sign permit shall allow the use of a temporary sign for a specified thirty-day period. No more than three permits for temporary signs shall be issued to any applicant in any calendar year. No more than one permit shall be issued for each temporary sign per location.
Except as modified by this section, all temporary signs must comply with all other applicable regulations and conditions set forth in this ordinance governing their usage.
9.035. Special Event or Spectacular Signs. A special event or spectacular sign is a sign or device including, but not limited to:
a cloth/paper/canvas/plastic/similar material sign
a balloon
a parked vehicle/trailer/mobile device with a mounted sign
other attention-getting device.
Special event and spectacular signs require a temporary sign permit.
Special event and spectacular signs shall be displayed only for the purpose of advertising a special use or event. This includes, but is not limited to, grand openings, seasonal sales, liquidations, going-out-of-business sales, fire sales, give-a ways, and promotions.
The maximum size allowed for all special event and spectacular signs shall be three hundred (300) square feet.
The maximum number of special event or spectacular permits shall be four per year for a period of time not to exceed ten (10) days for each permit issued.
Except as modified by this section, all special event and spectacular signs must comply with all other applicable regulations and conditions set forth in this ordinance governing their usage.
9.036. Changeable Copy Signs. Changeable copy signs are permitted as an integral part of any sign, which meets all other requirements of this ordinance.
The changeable copy portion of a sign shall not exceed fifty (50) percent of the overall display surface area of the sign.
9.037. Banners and Flags. An advertising banner will be treated as a temporary sign under Section 9.034 or as a special event sign under Section 9.035.
Up to two non-advertising banners or flags are exempt from a sign permit.
More than two non-advertising banners or flags require a sign permit.
9.038. Suspended Signs. Suspended signs are allowed only if firmly attached to the supporting structure.
Swinging suspended signs are not allowed.
If the sign is suspended over a walkway, the bottom edge of the sign must be no lower than seven feet above the walkway.
Section 9.04. - Regulations applying to off-site signs.
The provisions of Section 9.04 are not applicable to off-site signs erected at Interstate 16. All provisions as may be in force and effect from time to time by the state department of transportation for off-site signs adjacent to an interstate apply.
9.041. Off-site advertising signs shall be permitted as conditional uses as shown in the table, Article VI.
9.042. Off-site signs shall not be spaced closer than three hundred (300) feet to any other advertising sign on the same side of any street or highway except back to back or end to end and no closer than one thousand (1,000) feet apart when located to be viewed by motorists from Interstate Highway 16.
9.043. Off-site signs shall not be erected which exceed three hundred seventy-eight (378) square feet in advertising area. No more than one sign per sign structure will be allowed to face the same direction. But no such size limitation shall apply to require the reduction in size of any advertising structure in place on the date of the enactment of this ordinance.
9.044. Off-site signs shall be set back at least ten (10) feet from the right-of-way.
9.045. The total height of an off-site sign shall not be greater than twenty-five (25) feet.
9.046. All illuminated signs shall use base or top mounted lights and shall be activated by photoelectric cells. Additional lighting, including but not limited to neon, animation, and running lights, is prohibited.
9.047. Off-site signs shall not obscure safe sight distances or conflict with official traffic signs or safety devices. Lighted signs shall be shielded so as to prevent rays of light from being directed at any portion of the traveled right-of-way and shall not be of such intensity or brilliance as to cause glare or impair the vision of the operator of any motor vehicle.
Section 9.05. - Regulations applying to signs in residential zones.
Signs in residential zones are prohibited except those exempted by Section 9.02 or specifically permitted by this Section 9.05.
Temporary and special event signs are allowed in residential zones if the sign receives a sign permit.
A residential development with several houses or apartments may have one freestanding sign (identifying only the name of the residential development) per entrance to the development. Such signs must be constructed of brick, stone, masonry, wood or equal architectural material. They shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet per sign and shall not be more than eight feet high.
No illuminated signs are allowed in residential zones.
If a conditional use permit has been granted by the city council for an area in a residential zone, signs are allowed in that area with the following conditions:
No roof signs allowed.
Wall signs are limited to the exterior front surface of a building and shall not exceed ten (10) percent of the front surface of the building.
Freestanding signs shall not exceed nine square feet in area and five feet in height.
No temporary signs, special event signs, spectacular signs, banners, or flags are allowed.
Illuminated signs are not allowed.
Signs must be constructed of brick, stone, masonry or equal architectural material.
Section 9.06. - Sign violations.
Installing or maintaining a sign in a way that is inconsistent with this ordinance is a violation.
Installing or maintaining a sign in a way that is inconsistent with its sign permit is a violation.
Installing or maintaining a sign that requires a permit without a permit is a violation.
Failing to remove a sign after its sign permit has lapsed is a violation.
Each day of a continued violation shall be considered a separate violation when applying the penalties of this ordinance.
Each separate sign of a violation shall be considered a separate violation when applying the penalties of this ordinance.
Section 9.07. - Summary.
This summary is just a guide. For actual regulations, please see the other sections of this ordinance.
EXPAND
Residential Zones Nonresidential Zones
Signs by Type
Banner (advertising) prohibited temporary permit required
Banner (no advertising) exempt (# max) exempt (# max)
Canopy prohibited permit required
Flag exempt (# max) exempt (# max)
Marquee prohibited permit required
Pennants, Ribbons prohibited prohibited
Portable prohibited prohibited
Projecting prohibited 6 ½ ft. out, bottom 10 ft. high
Roof prohibited 1 max, 20 ft. high
Seasonal/Holiday Decorations exempt exempt
Self-standing permit required 1 max, 30 ft. high, 100 sq. ft.
Special Event permit required 300 sq. ft.
Spectacular prohibited 300 sq. ft.
Strings of Light prohibited prohibited
Suspended permit required permit required
Swinging prohibited prohibited
Wall prohibited 20% front, 25% sides/rear, 600 sq. ft. total
Window less than 50% less than 50%
Signs by Purpose
Building Marker exempt if 9 sq. ft. exempt if 9 sq. ft.
Construction exempt if 9 sq. ft. exempt if 20 sq. ft.
Garage Sale exempt if 9 sq. ft. permit required
Home Office exempt if 4 sq. ft. on wall not applicable
Identification exempt if 9 sq. ft. exempt if 9 sq. ft.
Incidental exempt if 9 sq. ft. exempt if 9 sq. ft.
Political exempt if 9 sq. ft. permit required
Real Estate exempt if 9 sq. ft. exempt if 20 sq. ft.
Temporary permit required permit required
Signs by Characteristics
Animated prohibited prohibited
Changeable Copy prohibited max 50% of total sign
Illuminated prohibited permit required
Blinking, Flashing prohibited prohibited
Beacon prohibited prohibited
  ARTICLE X. - MODIFICATIONS FOR PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS, PATIO HOUSES, AND CLUSTER DEVELOPMENTS

Section 10.00. - Exceptions for innovative design.
Planned unit developments, patio houses, and cluster developments are recognized as being desirable for the conservation and more efficient use of open space, utilities, energy, and public services than the conventional pattern of land development. In the best interest of the long-range development plans of the city, therefore, the planning commission is hereby empowered to make certain modifications to the provisions of this ordinance in order to encourage new and innovative approaches to land development. Such modifications shall permit flexibility of design and construction and provide for ways to enclose outdoor space as a useful extension of living areas in a manner consistent with the preservation of property values within established areas but shall not permit structures of use of land that might endanger health, safety, or natural drainage.
Section 10.01. - Procedure.
Any request for the establishment of a Planned Unit Development (PUD), or for the design of a patio house or cluster development that does not meet all of the requirements of this ordinance shall be considered an amendment and shall be administered and processed in accordance with the procedure set forth in Article XIII, Section 13.02.
Section 10.02. - Professional design.
To assure developments of the quality desired by the city, to establish an optimum living environment between indoor and outdoor living, and to provide for good design and use of proper materials in the structures and landscape design, the professional talents of state registered architects and/or landscape architects should be utilized in the design of PUDs, patio houses, and cluster developments.
ARTICLE XI. - ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, APPEAL, COMPLAINTS, AND REMEDIES

Section 11.00. - Administration and enforcement.
It shall be the duty of the building inspector or his designee to administer and enforce the provisions of this ordinance.
If the building inspector finds that any of the provisions of this ordinance are being violated, he shall notify in writing the person responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it.
He shall order discontinuance of illegal buildings or structures; discontinuance of illegal additions, alterations, or structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by this ordinance to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
He shall order removal of any sign that endangers the public safety; removal of any sign with no permit that requires a permit; removal of any sign otherwise in violation of this ordinance; or shall take any other action authorized by this ordinance to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
Any sign erected in violation of this ordinance may be removed from public property or right-of-way by authorized employees of the city. The responsible party may be cited for such violation.
Section 11.01. - Application for permits.
All applications for land use permits, sign permits, and temporary certificates of zoning compliance shall be accompanied by plans in duplicate drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be built upon; the exact sizes and locations on the lot of buildings already existing, if any. Location of adjacent trees of four inches or larger in caliper measured at breast height; and the location and dimensions of the proposed building or alteration. The application shall include such other information as lawfully may be required by the building inspector, including existing or proposed building or alteration; existing or proposed uses of the building and land; the number of families, housekeeping units, or rental units the building is designed to accommodate; conditions existing on the lot; and such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance with, and provide for the enforcement of, this ordinance.
One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the building inspector; after he shall have marked such copy either as approved or disapproved and attested to same by his signature of such copy. The original copy of the plans, similarly marked, shall be retained by the building inspector.
Section 11.02. - Land use and sign permits required.
No building, sign, or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to, or structurally altered without a permit therefor, issued by the building inspector. No land use or sign permit shall be issued by the building inspector except in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance. The building inspector shall issue permits in accordance with this ordinance as well as with the provisions of the building code or other laws in effect. Unlawful uses shall be made to comply with all regulations or shall be removed in accordance with the appropriate provisions set forth in the building code or this ordinance.
Section 11.03. - Certificate of occupancy.
It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any building or premises, or both, or parts thereof hereafter created, erected, changed, converted, or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued therefor by the building inspector stating that the proposed use of the building or land conforms to the requirements of this ordinance and other codes and resolutions adopted by the city.
No nonconforming structure or use shall be changed or extended, until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the building inspector.
No permit for erection, alteration, moving, or repair of any building shall be issued until an application for a period not exceeding six months during alterations or partial occupancy of a building pending its completion, provided that such temporary certificate may include such conditions and safeguards as will protect the safety of the occupants and the public.
Section 11.04. - Conditional and temporary uses.
Conditional uses, as listed in Article VI, are declared to possess characteristics, which require certain controls in order to insure compatibility with other uses in the district within which they are proposed for location.
11.041. General requirements. Conditional uses shall be permitted subject to a determination by the building inspector that they conform to all conditions set forth by the city council.
11.042. Conditional use administration and duration. Applications for permission to build, erect, or locate a conditional use shall be submitted and processed in accordance with the regulations set forth in this article, prior to the issuance of any permits. The individual or individuals who wants the conditional use permit must be the one who applies for the request and the property owner must give the applicant a letter of permission for that conditional use requested.
11.043. Temporary uses. The building inspector is authorized to issue a temporary certificate of zoning compliance for temporary uses, as follows:
a.
Carnival, circus, or fair, for a period not to exceed twenty-one (21) days, subject to the approval of the city council in the CR, HOC, and CBD Districts.
b.
Religious meeting in a tent or other temporary structure in CR and HOC Districts, for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days.
c.
Open lot sale of Christmas trees, fruit and vegetables, and other harvested products in the CR, HOC, and LI Districts for a period not to exceed forty-five (45) days.
d.
Contractor's office and equipment sheds, in any district, for a period of one year, provided that such office is placed on the property to which it is appurtenant.
e.
All temporary certificates of zoning compliance may be renewed provided that it is determined that said use is clearly of a temporary nature, will cause no increased traffic congestion and will not create a nuisance to surrounding uses.
Section 11.05. - Expiration of land use permit.
If the work described in any land use permit has not begun within six months from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire; it shall be canceled by the building inspector, and written notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected.
Section 11.06. - Complaints regarding violations and remedies.
Whenever a violation of this ordinance occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the building inspector. He shall record properly such complaint, immediately investigate, and take action thereon as provided by this ordinance.
Section 11.07. - Penalties for violation.
Any person violating any provision of this ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined, as determined by the court, for each offense. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
Section 11.08. - Appeal from the decision of the building inspector.
It is the intention of this ordinance that all questions arising in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance shall be presented first to the building inspector and that such question shall be presented to the City Council on appeal from the decision of the building inspector.
ARTICLE XII. - ZONING APPEALS

Section 12.01. - Appeals, hearings, and notice.
Appeals to the city council may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the city. Such appeal shall be taken within fifteen (15) days by filing with the city clerk notice of said appeal specifying the grounds thereof.
An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Mayor, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by a court of record on application, on notices to the officer from whom the appeal is taken, and on due cause shown.
City council shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal or other matter referred to it, and give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. At the hearing any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
Section 12.02. - Variances and special exceptions.
City council may authorize variance from the terms of the ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest, where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the ordinance will in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of the ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done.
Such variance may be granted in such individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the city council that:
a.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or topography.
b.
The application of the ordinance to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship;
c.
Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved; and
d.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purpose and intent of the ordinance. Provided, however, that no variance may be granted for a use of land or building or structure that is prohibited in a given district by the ordinance. No variance may be granted to the provisions of Article IX, Sign Regulation.
12.021. To hear and decide special exceptions by the granting of conditional use permits upon a finding by the city council:
a.
The special exception or conditional use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of the environment or of other property in the immediate vicinity nor diminish and impair property values within the surrounding neighborhood;
b.
The proposed conditional use will not increase local or state expenditures in relation to cost of servicing or maintaining neighboring properties;
c.
The establishment of the conditional use will not impede the normal and orderly development of surrounding property for uses predominant in the area; and
d.
The location and character of the proposed conditional use is considered to be consistent with a desirable pattern of development for the locality in general.
12.022. To decide on other matters where a decision of the city council may be specifically required by the provisions of this ordinance. In exercising these powers, the city council may reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify the order, requirements, decision, or determination, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken and may issue or direct the issuance of a permit. The city council, in the execution of the duties for which appointed, may subpoena witnesses and in case of contempt may certify such fact to the superior court.
Section 12.03. - Certiorari from decisions of board of appeals.
Any person aggrieved by any decision of the city council shall have the right of certiorari to the superior court within thirty (30) days after the decision of the board is rendered.
Section 12.04. - Rules of procedure and fees required.
(a)
Whenever a person shall take an appeal to the city council, he shall obtain the appropriate form therefor from the city clerk. It shall be the duty of the said person to complete the appeal form in its entirety; which form is then to be submitted to the city clerk together with the appropriate fees.
In addition, a list of names and addresses of the owner, if his residence is known, or the occupier of every lot in the same street within five hundred (500) feet of the building in question and of every lot not on the same street within one hundred fifty (150) feet of said lot or building, shall be submitted with the appeal form; provided, however, that failure to provide such list of names provided by this paragraph shall not invalidate any action taken by the board of appeals.
(b)
Fees. A charge or fee as set by city council shall be paid by each applicant upon the filing of an application with the for a special exception, variance, or conditional use from the terms of this ordinance. The charge or fee shall be paid in advance to the City of Metter and shall be used to defray the necessary expenses . If the applicant desires a stenographic record of the proceedings before the board of appeals, he shall so indicate upon his application and shall forward therewith the actual cost of the records as stated by the city clerk.
(c)
Expiration of Special Exceptions and Variances. Unless otherwise specified by the board of appeals, a special exception or variance shall expire if the applicant fails to obtain a building permit there under within six months from the date of authorization thereof.
ARTICLE XIII. - AMENDMENTS

Section 13.00. - Authority.
This ordinance, including the official zoning map, may be amended from time to time by the city council as herein specified.
No amendment shall become effective unless the city council has held a public hearing on the amendment.
Section 13.01. - Requirements for a change.
When the public necessity, convenience, general welfare, or good zoning practice justify such action, and after a public hearing, and after the required review and report by the planning commission, the city council may undertake the necessary steps to amend the zoning ordinance.
Section 13.02. - Procedure for amendments.
Requests to amend the zoning ordinance shall be processed in accordance with the following requirements:
13.021. Initiation of Amendments. The city council may from time to time amend, supplement, change, modify, or repeal this ordinance, including the zoning map, by proceeding in the following manner, and as otherwise required by law. In amending the zoning map or regulations, the city council shall use the "Standards for Zoning Decisions" adopted by the city. A proposed amendment may also be initiated by the planning commission, or by application filed with the city by the owners of the property proposed to be changed.
However, that action shall not be initiated for a zoning amendment affecting the same parcel or parcels of property or any part thereof and requesting the same change in district classification more often that once every six months.
The owners of fifty (50) percent or more of the frontage in any district may initiate an amendment to the zoning ordinance by presenting a duly signed and acknowledged petition requesting the amendment to the city council.
13.022. Applications procedure. Each request for amendment of the zoning ordinance shall be submitted to the city on a form provided by the city and signed by the owner(s) or their duly authorized agent(s). A separate request must be filed for each parcel for which a zoning amendment is requested, and shall contain the following:
A.
Applicant's name and address and his representative, and the interest of every person represented in the application.
B.
A plan showing the extent of the area to be rezoned, streets bounding and intersecting the area, the land use and zone classification and abutting districts and photographs of the area to be rezoned and abutting areas.
C.
A statement of the circumstances in the proposed district and the abutting districts and any other factors on which the applicant relies as reasons for supporting the proposed rezoning. The applicant's statements should address issues identified in the city's adopted: "Standards for Zoning Decisions."
D.
The approximate time schedule for the beginning and completion of development in the area.
E.
A site plan to scale, indicating the locations of structures, uses area for off-street parking and loading.
F.
The City, at the applicant's expense, shall erect a sign upon the property in question. This sign shall be placed in a conspicuous location, as the building inspector may direct, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing. The required sign shall be at least nine square feet in size and shall contain a message composed of black letters at least three inches high upon a white background which shall read as follows:
PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE ZONING CHANGE
A public hearing will be held at City Hall at (time) (am or pm) on (date), (year), to consider the rezoning of this property from (present zoning classification) to (request zoning classification).
G.
A fee to cover the administrative expense, publication cost and signage involved in processing the official request as set by city council.
13.023. Public hearing. The city council by resolution adopted at a regular or special meeting shall fix the time and place of a public hearing on the proposed amendment which shall be conducted in accordance with the city's adopted "Policies and Procedures for the Call and Conduct of Zoning Public Hearings," and at least fifteen (15) but not more than forty-five (45) days prior to the public hearing, shall cause notice thereof to be given as follows:
A.
By publishing a notice thereof in one newspaper of general circulation in the city.
B.
By mailing a notice to all property owners adjacent of the particular property involved.
C.
By requiring the applicant at his expense to erect a sign upon the property in question as outlined in Section 13.022(F) Public Hearing Notice.
The notice shall state the general nature of the proposed amendment and that full opportunity to be heard will be given to any citizen and all parties in interest attending such hearing.
Whenever a proposed amendment affects a particular property, then a notice of the proposed amendment shall be posted upon said property or premises at such place or places as shall be conspicuous to the traveling public and adjacent property owners.
13.024. Planning Commission recommendation. prior to the public hearing, the city council shall refer all proposed amendments, variance request, conditional use applications, and special exception applications to the planning commission for its recommendation and report.
All meetings of the planning commission shall be open to the public and any party may appear in person or by agent, or by attorney.
No member of the planning commission shall participate in a matter in which he has any pecuniary or special interest.
The planning commission's recommendation shall not be binding on the city council.
13.025 Final action. After holding the public hearing and receiving the planning commission's recommendation, the city council shall take final action on the proposed zoning amendment at a regular or special meeting.
In case of a protest against such amendment, change, modification or repeal, signed by the owners of
(a)
Twenty (20) percent or more of the area included in such proposed changes, or
(b)
Twenty (20) percent or more of the lots included in such proposed changes, or
(c)
Twenty (20) percent or more of the lots immediately adjacent to such proposed changes, or
(d)
Twenty (20) percent or more of the lots within one hundred (100) feet of such proposed changes, such amendment, supplement, change or modification shall not become effective except by a majority vote of the city council.
13.026. Changes in the zoning ordinance and map. Following final action by the city council, any necessary changes shall be made in the zoning ordinance and zoning map, as applicable.
A written record of the type and date of such change shall be maintained by the city clerk, within seven days after formal action by the city council. Action by the city council shall be considered official Effective immediately.
13.027 Right of certiorari. Any person aggrieved by final action of the city council changing the zoning ordinance and/or the zoning map shall have the right of certiorari to superior court within thirty (30) days after such final action.
13.028. Printed copies of hearing procedures available to the public. Printed copies of Article XIII, Amendments, with all applicable amendments, shall be maintained in the city hall office of building inspection for distribution to the general public.
ARTICLE XIV. - SCHEDULE OF FEES
The schedule of fees shall be posted by the city and may be altered or amended from time to time by the city council to help defray the costs of zoning administration.
ARTICLE XV. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

Section 15.00. - Conflict with other laws.
Whenever the regulations of this ordinance require a greater width or size of yards or require a greater percentage of lot to be left unoccupied or impose other more restrictive standards than are required in or under any other statutes, the requirements of this ordinance shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other statute require more restrictive standards than are required by this ordinance, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
Section 15.01. - Validity.
Should any section or provision of this ordinance be declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part thereof, which is not specifically declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
Section 15.02. - Repeal of conflicting ordinances.
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are repealed to the extent necessary to give this ordinance full force and effect.
Section 15.03. - Enactment procedure effective date.
This ordinance shall take effect immediately and be in force.
ARTICLE XVI. - STANDARDS FOR ZONING DECISIONS
In order to conform to the Zoning Procedures Law of the State of Georgia (Title 36, Chapter 66 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated), the following standards will be considered as appropriate and as relevant to a particular zoning decision by the city council when adopting, changing, or amending the zoning ordinance or the zoning map.
1.
Assure that the proposed change is reasonable and consistent with the spirit, purpose, and intent of the zoning ordinance.
2.
Consider the changes in community characteristics, which may take place because of the proposed change, and consider the consistency with and effect of the change on current public growth and development policies and plans.
3.
Consider the relative effectiveness or ineffectiveness of the present wording or districting of the ordinance, and whether a justification for change exists because of special reasons or a change in conditions.
4.
Consider the effect upon the public interest of granting or denying the proposed change and determine that the change will serve the best interests of the city, as compared to any hardship imposed upon the individual property owner.
5.
Consider the existing land use pattern, and specifically the presence or absence in the adjacent surrounding area of conditions and uses which are the same or similar in character to any proposed change or use, and the possible creation of an isolated district unrelated to adjacent districts.
6.
Determine that the proposed change will not substantially injure or detract from the use or value of neighboring property, or from the general character of adjacent and nearby property in the surrounding area.
7.
Consider the unique characteristics of the property involved, and whether the property to be affected by the zoning proposal has some reasonable economic use as currently zoned or whether there are substantial reasons why the property cannot be used in accordance with existing zoning.
8.
Consider the effect of the proposed change upon the logical, efficient, and economical extensions of public services and facilities, or possible overtaxing or burdening of existing public services or facilities, including but not limited to utilities, streets, schools, and public safety services, and also the associated costs to the local government in providing, improving, increasing, or maintaining such facilities and services.
9.
Consider the impact of the change with respect to probable effects upon highway traffic and safety, and especially access near intersections.
10.
Consider the impact of the proposed change upon the environment, including but not limited to drainage, soil erosion and sedimentation, flooding, noise, air quality, and water quality and quantity.
11.
Determine that the zoning proposal will permit suitable use or uses in view of the subject property's physical characteristics, the use and development of adjacent and nearby properties, existing zoning patterns, existing or proposed public facilities or services, environmental impacts, and current public growth and development policies and plans of the city.
12.
Consider whether the change is designed to correct an improper situation or would merely result in the granting of special privileges not available to adjacent or surrounding properties.
13.
Consider any other factors relevant to balancing the city's interests in promoting and protecting the public health, safety, morality, or general welfare against a right to unrestricted use of property.
ARTICLE XVII. - POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR THE CALL AND CONDUCT OF ZONING PUBLIC HEARINGS
In order to conform to the Zoning Procedures Law of the State of Georgia (Title 36, Chapter 66 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated), the following policies and procedures shall govern the call and conduct of all zoning public hearings in the city.
1.
In accordance with the provisions of the zoning ordinance of the city, the city council shall fix the time and place of a public hearing on any proposed adoption, change, or amendment to the zoning ordinance or the zoning map.
2.
All required zoning hearings shall be properly advertised and have proper notice according to Georgia Law and the zoning ordinance of the city.
3.
All such hearings shall be open to the general public, and no person shall be excluded for any reason other than grossly disruptive or offensive actions.
4.
The purpose of holding a zoning public hearing is to listen to the views of the citizens of the community, and then evaluate the entire matter at a later time or official meeting. No cross-examination or prolonged argumentative questioning of the hearing body shall be permitted. Decorum and order shall prevail.
5.
Before any requests for amendments or zoning changes may be considered, the clerk shall verify and announce publicly for the record that:
(A)
All necessary submission requirements as established in the zoning ordinance have been met.
(B)
All requirements under Georgia Law for advertising and posting of a sign on the property for rezoning, if appropriate, including any time limitations, have been met.
6.
The chair shall announce publicly the convening of the hearing on each amendment or change, identifying specifically, if appropriate, the property proposed for zoning and stating the present zoning classification and the proposed zoning classifications.
7.
Any citizen and all parties in interest shall be given opportunity to be heard, provided that oral presentations for each side of the issue shall be limited to thirty (30) minutes, and those persons wishing to make oral presentations have signed a hearing register with their name, address and affiliation or standing, and indicated which side of the issue they wish to address. The chair shall have the authority to place more specific time limits on individual oral presenters (as a class), so long as each side is given its full amount of allotted time, or to extend the allotted time of the public hearing to one hour for each side, if warranted.
8.
Submission of written comments and supporting data shall be allowed, in addition to or as a supplement to oral presentations, without affecting time limits on oral presentation. To be accepted and entered into the record, these comments must be clearly identified as to the issue concerned, and carry the name, address, and affiliation of the respondent. The receipt and acceptance of written comments shall be read into the record of the chair or the chair's designee.
9.
Those persons wishing to make oral or written presentations before the hearing body should be aware that the hearing body is attempting to make an objective decision, based on the adopted "Standards for Zoning Decisions" of the city and is interested only in factual presentations and information which can be supported, and which is accurately and carefully presented. The chair may declare out of order any presenter making emotional arguments or extraneous statements not germane to the issue. Only presentation and information relevant to issues raised in the city's adopted "Standards for Zoning Decisions" shall be considered germane.
10.
Only members of the hearing body may question a person making a presentation during the hearing. In order for a person in attendance to speak, the chair must first recognize that person.
11.
The order of procedure for each hearing shall be as outlined below.
(A)
After convening and identifying the public hearing, the chair will request the register for that hearing and briefly recite the procedures in effect, including any specific time limits.
(B)
Presentations, if desired, by the proponents of the propose zoning change or amendment.
(C)
Questions by members of the hearing body of the proponents.
(D)
Presentations, if desired, by the opponents of the proposed zoning change or amendment.
(E)
Questions by members of the hearing body of the opponents.
(F)
Upon conclusion of the presentations and questions, the chair will thank all for their interest and attendance, assure that all views and the entire matter will be given careful consideration, and shall close that hearing.
12.
The chair will then announce the time and place of the meeting of the governing body which will have the proposed change on the agenda for official action.
13.
Any other scheduled public hearing or amendment or change shall then be convened, utilizing the same procedures.
14.
Only normal minutes shall be maintained by any zoning public hearing as a matter of course. However, upon receipt of written request from an affected party or parties at least one week prior to the scheduled public hearing the city shall have a transcript prepared, provided that the entire cost of preparation shall be borne by the affected party or parties making such request. Agreement to this by the party or parties making such request must be provided to the city in writing before preparations for such a transcript will be undertaken.
