Chapter 2.44 - CITY PROPERTY
Sections:

2.44.010 - Supervision and control of public property.
The mayor and council shall have the general supervision and control of all property, real and personal, owned by or under control of the city.
(Ord. 97-2 (part): prior code ยง 2-21)
2.44.020 - Authority to pass rules and regulations.
The mayor and council shall have the right and authority from time to time to fix, by ordinances or resolutions which shall be spread on their minutes, rules and regulations governing any city property. When such rules have been made, it shall be the duty of the mayor and council to cause the same to be posted at some public place upon the premises affected thereby and after such rules are posted, any person violating the same shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 97-2 (part): prior code ยง 2-22)
2.44.030 - Personal use of city property unlawful.
It is unlawful for any officer of the city or other persons to use or take from their place of keeping any of the tools, equipment, motor vehicles or other personal property or any fixtures of the city, for the purpose of using the same otherwise than provided by the rules of the mayor and council or for the personal use or benefit of such officer or other person.
(Ord. 97-2 (part): prior code ยง 2-23)
2.44.040 - Unlawful peddling, selling, vending.
It is unlawful for anyone to place on any street, alley, park or parking area or any property of the city, any vehicle for the purpose of sale, or, to vend, sell, peddle or offer for sale any commodity, article or vehicle on any street, alley, park or parking area or any other property of the city, unless done so in connection with a festival or other celebrations specifically authorized by the council of the city. Any person who violates this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation.
(Ord. dated 8-27-07 ยง 1; Added by ord. dated 10-12-98)
