Chapter 2.32 - PLANNING COMMISSION
Sections:

2.32.010 - Established.
In order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the city which will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote the public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, the Metter planning commission, referred to in this chapter as the planning commission, is created and established, and such planning commission shall be organized and empowered as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. dated 5-12-97 (part); prior code ยง 17-18)
2.32.020 - Membership.
The planning commission shall consist of five members, who shall be residents of the city, appointed by the mayor and council. The term of office of each member shall be for a period of five years, and until his successor is duly appointed and qualified, except that of the first appointees one member shall be appointed for one year, one member for two years, one member for three years, one member for four years, and the remaining member for five years. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled, and members may be removed, as provided in Section 3.11 of the Charter. All members shall serve without compensation, but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
(Ord. dated 5-12-97 (part); prior code ยง 17-19)
2.32.030 - Organization, rules, staff, finances.
A.
The organization, meetings and rules of the planning commission shall be as established by city council.
B.
The planning commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may contract with the Bureau of State Planning and Community Affairs and city planners and other consultants for such services as it may require. The expenditures of the planning commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the mayor and council.
(Ord. dated 5-12-97 (part); prior code ยง 17-20)
2.32.040 - Powers and duties.
From and after the time when the planning commission shall have organized and selected its officers and shall have adopted its rules of procedure, then such planning commission shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities as established by city council.
(Ord. dated 5-12-97 (part); prior code ยง 17-21)
