Chapter 13.08 - WATER SERVICE SYSTEM*
Sections:

13.08.010 - Requirements incorporated in contracts.
The rules and regulations contained in this chapter shall be considered a part of the contract with every builder, developer and consumer of city water. Such builder, developer and consumer of city water shall be governed by and subject to such rules and regulations.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-20)
13.08.020 - Compliance with building regulations prerequisite to issuance of water meter.
The city shall not issue any water meter within the city unless all requirements of the building code have been met. The city shall not be authorized to issue any water meter within the city where the same appears to be detrimental to the health and welfare of the city.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-21)
13.08.030 - Connection—Permit required.
It is unlawful for one person to connect any pipe to the city system without express permission of the city.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-22)
13.08.040 - Application for connection.
A.
Connection with the mains of the city shall be made upon the written application of the owner of the premises to be supplied with a connection, or of the owner's duly authorized agent upon blanks approved by city and upon compliance by the applicant with the rates, rules and regulations of city, and after the approval of the application by the city endorsed thereon. The size of service lines, valves, meters and other fittings, fixtures or appliances necessary to give the service applied for shall be determined by the city water and sewer supervisor.
B.
Application for water service connections shall be made at the city offices in the city hall by the owner or agent of the property to be served, upon blank forms furnished therefor. Such application shall state the official street number or numbers of the premises, the size of the pipe required and the approximate location where such services shall enter the premises.
C.
Cross-Connection—Back-Flow. The city reserves the right to refuse service unless the consumer's lines or pipings are installed in such a manner as to prevent cross-connection or back-flow.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-23)
13.08.050 - Application—Form and contents.
A.
Upon the application of the owner, or any authorized agent, or tenant of the owner, premises will be furnished through the connections already made, or applied for by the owner, and upon compliance by the applicant with the rates, rules and regulations of city, as established from time to time as the need requires by resolution, and after approval of the application by the city accounts clerk or water and sewer supervisor.
B.
The application shall state the name of the owner of the premises, the character and extent of the service desired, a description of the premises, including the name of the street, and house number, the number and kind of fixtures through which water will be supplied, and such other information as may be reasonably required by the city to enable it to give the desired service.
C.
Any person or any person acting as an agent of an agent of a firm or corporation and applying for services with the city of Metter shall present with the application a copy of a photo identification and a copy of proof of ownership or lease agreement or rent receipt pertaining to the property to which services are going to be provided.
(Amendment dated 2-16-04; Ord. 97-7 § 12-30)
13.08.060 - New application required when.
A new application shall be made and approved by the city upon any change in ownership or tenancy of the property, or in the service, as described in the application. The city shall have the right to discontinue the water supply until such new application is made and approved.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-31)
13.08.070 - Installation of service connections.
The making of all service connections from the meter to improvements on premises including laying pipes, setting of water service fixtures, whether on private property or public grounds, to be served by city water shall be made by duly licensed plumbers under the supervision of the building official or water and sewer supervisor.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-24)
13.08.080 - Service taps.
No service taps shall be made unless first authorized by the city. All such taps shall be made in accordance with city's specifications or as otherwise directed by the city. All taps will be inspected by the water and sewer supervisor.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-25)
13.08.090 - Water meter required.
A.
All water customers of the city residing in single-family dwellings will have a water meter installed to record the amount of water used so as to pay the city for the total amount of water consumed.
B.
All water customers residing in a duplex or similar place of abode will comply with the rule in subsection (A) of this section unless it is not practical; then the city will determine the disposition of each water customer, if there is a reason to do so.
C.
Where there are three or more families living in an apartment unit and where the apartment owner charges for water as a part of the cost to the tenants, then the city will be satisfied with one meter and will charge the apartment owner of the total water consumed by the tenants and the owner will either collect a share from each tenant or will absorb the cost personally if this cost is part of the lease agreement, but it will be the owner's responsibility to pay the city for total water registered on the water meter.
D.
All commercial customers will have a water meter installed to record the amount of water used so as to pay the city for the total amount of water consumed.
E.
Where there are three or more commercial units, then the city will be satisfied with one meter and will charge the business owner for the total water consumed. It will be the owner's responsibility to pay the city for total water registered on the water meter.
F.
Water meters shall be installed on all municipal and public buildings, including churches, and any other such buildings that use water.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-28)
13.08.100 - Connection tap fees—Charges for meters.
A.
The city council will from time to time set water and sewer rates and connection tap fees. This schedule of fees will be on file in the city clerk's office.
B.
The cost shall be paid at the time the application for metered service is made to the city. All meters shall remain the property of the city and may be replaced at the discretion of the city.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-26)
13.08.110 - Deposit for water service.
A.
All water customers of the city shall deposit with the city the amount established by resolution of the city council for each meter to guarantee the prompt and full payment of all charges imposed by the city for water furnished by the city to the customer. All fees set by council will be kept on file and made available in the city clerk's office.
B.
After five years, if the account is in good standing and the customer has made timely payments, the deposit will be refunded in full.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-32)
13.08.120 - Rates and charges.
A.
The charges for water service from the city shall be based on rate studies conducted every three years or more often; the charges shall be fixed after each study. The charges will be set by resolution of city council and will be kept on file and made available in the city clerk's office.
B.
1. At the time of making application for connection or service, applicant must make payment to city of the fees, deposits or rates, as the case may be, as fixed by the city council.
2.
Rates for water service shall be subject to change according to the fiscal needs of the city from time to time as determined by the city council; such rates shall be published in the office of the city hall where utility bills may be paid and in accordance with the most recent resolution by the city council pertaining to such rates.
3.
The rate shall have a minimum-based charge plus a charge for each one thousand (1,000) gallons of water used.
(Ord. 97-7 §§ 12-33, 12-34)
13.08.130 - Water used for swimming pools—Rates.
The city shall charge the normal rate for water used for the filling of swimming pools. The amount of water used for the filling of swimming pools shall be deducted from the total number of gallons used for figuring the sewer charge.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-27)
13.08.140 - Due date—Shut-off for nonpayment—Restoration of service.
Utility bills are due on the first day of each month. A penalty charge of ten (10) percent will be added to the bill if the bill is not paid by the tenth day of the month. If the bill is not paid by the twentieth day of the month, water service to the premises for which the bill was rendered may be terminated by the city. Service shall not be restored until the bill has been paid including a reconnection fee. A reconnection fee will be applied to the bill on the day of cut off or the twentieth day. In addition, when a bill is not paid by the twentieth of the month, no water service shall be furnished to the customer responsible for payment of the bill at any other location or to any member of the customer's household. An extension of five days may be requested in writing due to illness or catastrophe, at the office where payments are accepted, and will be granted if customer has good credit history with the city. The accounts clerk is the only person authorized to grant that extension, in their absence the city administrator may grant the extension.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-35)
13.08.150 - Billing adjustments.
A.
If the consumer believes his bill to be in error, he shall present his claim in person to the accounts clerk at city hall before the bill becomes delinquent. Such claim, if made after the bill has become delinquent, shall not be effective in preventing discontinuance of service as provided in this chapter. The consumer shall pay such bill under protest and such payment shall not prejudice his claim.
B.
The city shall make a special water meter reading at the request of a consumer for a fee of five dollars ($5.00) or as set by the city council provided, however, that if such special reading disclosed that the meter was over-read, no charge will be made.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-45)
13.08.160 - Turning on water after cutoff for nonpayment prohibited.
It is unlawful for any person to cut on or use any water after such person's water service has been discontinued for nonpayment of bills.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-41)
13.08.170 - Bypassing meter prohibited.
It is unlawful for any person to run any pipe around any meter with intent to defraud the city of water revenue.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-42)
13.08.180 - Tampering with water service system prohibited.
A.
It is unlawful for any person to intentionally injure, destroy or permit to be injured or destroyed any water meter, pipe, conduit, line or other apparatus belonging to or operated by the city. It is likewise unlawful for any person to intentionally prevent a water meter belonging to or operated by the city from duly registering the quantity of water supplied to or in any way interfere with the proper action or just registration of such meters. It is likewise unlawful for any person to intentionally use or cause to be used, without the consent of the city, any water manufactured or distributed by the city.
B.
The existence of any device by whatever name used for the purpose of diverting any water from any pipe of the city without the consent of the city, shall be prima facie evidence of the intent to defraud by the person receiving the benefits from such diversion. The existence of such a device shall be deemed presumptive evidence of the intention referred to in this section.
C.
1. It is unlawful for any person to tamper with or deliberately damage a city water meter. Any such tampering or deliberate destruction shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor and shall be penalized.
2.
Any subsequent tampering or deliberate destruction shall result in a citation to appear in municipal court and, upon determination of guilt, to punishment as prescribed in Section 1.12.010.
(Ord. 97-7 §§ 12-29, 12-43)
13.08.190 - Temporary water service.
A fee shall be paid to the city for temporary water service. No such service shall be continued for a period of time in excess of ten (10) consecutive days. This fee will be set from time to time by resolution of the city control.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-44)
13.08.200 - Inspection.
All pipes, meters and fixtures shall at all reasonable hours be subject to inspection by the city water and sewer supervisor or by his or her duly authorized agent.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-38)
13.08.210 - Fixtures and equipment.
The city will furnish and maintain at its own cost all necessary fittings, pipes, appliances, including all meters and meter boxes, to deliver water to the consumer's pipeline, at a point just inside the curbline of the street and just outside the property line in alleys or other public places; all such fittings, pipes, appliances, meters and meter boxes shall remain the property of the city, and shall at all times be accessible to city and under its control. The service line from the curb box or meter to the consumer's premises shall be laid and maintained by the applicant at applicant's own cost. The line shall be ample size, of standard weight and quality, and all cutoffs, valves, fixtures and appliances furnished by the consumer shall be maintained in good condition.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-36)
13.08.220 - Leaks.
All leaks in the service or any pipe, or fixture, on the premises of the consumer shall be immediately repaired. Upon a failure to repair any such leak the service may be discontinued until repairs are made.
(Ord. 97-7 § 12-37)
13.08.230 - Responsibility for damages and maintenance.
A.
The city shall in no event be responsible for maintaining any service line owned by the consumer, nor for damage done by water escaping therefrom, nor for defects in lines or fixtures, on the property of the consumer. The consumer shall at all times comply with all regulations of the city and of regulations relating to the service lines, and shall make all changes in the line as required on account of change in grade or otherwise.
B.
All damage to service pipes or street mains caused by careless or negligent work, or improper filling at excavations, shall be chargeable to the persons causing such damage, and the expense of repairing the same shall be recovered from such persons.
C.
All service pipes and fixtures from the water meter to the premises, including the corporation cocks at the mains, shall be installed and maintained at the expense of the property owners, and all leaks and other defects in the same shall be promptly repaired by them, or if not promptly repaired, then water will be turned off until such repairs have been made, and the expense thereof shall be charged against the owners, and must be paid before water shall be turned on again.
D.
The city shall not be held responsible by reason of the breaking of any service pipe or apparatus, water coil, or for failure in the supply of water.
(Ord. 97-7 §§ 12-39, 12-40)
13.08.240 - Collection costs for delinquent accounts.
Customers that have a past due balance after disconnection are subject to being referred to collection agencies and are required to pay for postage, second notices, collection fees, court processing fees, and attorney fees.
(Ord. of 4-30-07, § 1)
