Title 12 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
Chapters:
EXPAND
12.04 Streets and Sidewalks Generally
12.08 Parades, Meetings and Assemblies in Public Places
12.12 Parks and Recreational Facilities
12.16 Urban Forestry
  Chapter 12.04 - STREETS AND SIDEWALKS GENERALLY
Sections:

12.04.010 - Street and lanes department to supervise.
The streets, sidewalks, bridges and alleys of the city shall be under the general supervision of the chairman of the street and lanes department.
(Prior code § 21-1)
12.04.020 - Payment of construction expenses.
All expenses paid by the city of working, laying out, opening or bridging, curbing or improving the streets, lanes or alleys of the city, unless otherwise provided for by the council, shall be paid out of the general funds of the city arising from taxation or otherwise, by direction of the council.
(Prior code § 21-2)
12.04.030 - Encroachments—Permit required.
It is unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any building or structure which encroaches upon any public street or property, or to erect any poles or wires or maintain any poles or wires over any public place, street, alley or other public way, without having first secured a permit from the mayor and council.
(Prior code § 21-3)
12.04.040 - Display of merchandise on sidewalks.
It shall be permissible and lawful for merchants and dealers in various and sundry types of merchandise to display their merchandise on the sidewalk in front of their places of business provided such merchandise does not extend more than twenty-four (24) inches from the front wall of the building occupied by the merchant or dealer, and provided the placing of such merchandise or articles for sale on the sidewalk does not interfere with the free and uninterrupted passage by the public along the sidewalk. No merchandise, articles for sale or other items shall be placed on or among any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks or passageways within the city if the placing of same will interfere with the free use and passage of the public along said street, alley, sidewalk or passageway.
(Prior code § 21-4)
12.04.050 - Excavations—Permit required.
A.
It is unlawful for any person to dig up, break, excavate, tunnel, undermine or in any manner break up any street, or to make or cause to be made any excavation in or under the surface of any street for any purpose, or to place, deposit or leave upon any street any earth or other excavated material obstructing or tending to interfere with the free use of the street, unless such person shall first have obtained an excavation permit from the mayor and council.
B.
The excavation permit fee to be collected by the city clerk shall be in an amount fixed by the mayor and council.
(Prior code § 21-5)
Chapter 12.08 - PARADES, MEETINGS AND ASSEMBLIES IN PUBLIC PLACES*
Sections:

12.08.010 - Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
"Activity" means a parade or public meeting or assembly.
"Funeral procession" means a single direct movement from a mortuary or church to the place of burial of a human body, under direction of an authorized funeral director.
"Parade" means a march or procession of any kind.
"Public meeting or assembly" means a planned or organized gathering of a group of persons, or any ceremony, show, exhibition or pageant which may reasonably be expected to result in the gathering of a group of persons, upon any public street, park or other public grounds.
(Ord. 97-6 § 1)
12.08.020 - Permit required.
It is unlawful for any person to hold, manage, conduct, aid, participate in, form, start or carry on any parade or public meeting or assembly, as defined in this chapter, in or upon any public street, park or other public grounds in the city unless and until a permit to conduct such meeting, assembly or parade has been obtained in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, except as herein provided.
(Ord. 97-6 § 2)
12.08.030 - Exceptions.
This chapter shall not apply to any of the following:
A.
Funeral processions;
B.
A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions;
C.
Students going to and from school classes or participating in educational activities, providing such activity is authorized by the school district and is under the immediate direction and supervision of the school authorities authorized by the school district to approve and supervise such activity.
(Ord. 97-6 § 3)
12.08.040 - Application.
Applications for permits under this chapter must be filed with the chief of police not less than five days in advance of the proposed activity. Late applications may be accepted if filed sufficiently in advance of the date of the proposed activity to enable the chief of police to determine that such activity will meet the requirements set forth in Section 12.08.050 of this chapter. This application shall be in writing and shall give the following information:
A.
The name, address and telephone number of the person requesting the permit. If the activity is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by any organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of the organization and the authorized head of such organization shall be stated;
B.
The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be directly in charge of and responsible for the activity;
C.
The purpose of the activity;
D.
The date, time and location or route of the proposed activity;
E.
The approximate number of persons who will participate in the activity and the number and kind of vehicles, equipment and animals which will be used;
F.
Plans for the assembly and dispersal of the parade, including times and locations thereof;
G.
A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a portion of the streets proposed to be traversed;
H.
A statement as to whether a permit has been requested or obtained from any other city within which such activity shall commence, terminate or occur in part;
I.
Any additional information which the chief of police shall find reasonably necessary to a determination of the findings required by Section 12.08.050 of this chapter.
(Ord. 97-6 § 4)
12.08.050 - Required findings.
The chief of police or his designated representative shall issue a permit as provided for in this chapter when from a consideration of the application and from such other information as may otherwise be obtained he finds that:
A.
The conduct of such activity will not substantially interrupt the safe and orderly movement of other traffic;
B.
The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection of, or ambulance service to, areas where the activity will take place or areas contiguous to such area;
C.
The conduct of such activity will not unduly interfere with the movement of firefighting equipment en route to a fire, or the movement of other emergency equipment;
D.
The conduct of such activity is not reasonably likely to cause injury to persons or property; and
E.
Such activity is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising the goods, wares or merchandise of a particular business establishment or vendor.
(Ord. 97-6 § 5)
12.08.060 - Conditions to permit.
The chief of police shall have authority to impose such conditions as are necessary to insure that all of the findings mentioned in Section 12.08.050 of this chapter shall exist during the continuation of the activity.
(Ord. 97-6 § 6)
12.08.070 - Prior application.
If a prior permit application shall have been made for an activity proposed to be held at the same time or place, the chief of police may refuse approval of the later application. In case of such refusal, he shall forthwith send the applicant written notice that he may apply for an alternate time and place.
(Ord. 97-6 § 7)
12.08.080 - Notice of issuance or denial.
The chief of police shall act upon the permit application within three days of the filing thereof. If he disapproves of the application, he shall mail to the applicant within that three-day period notice of the denial and the reason for it.
(Ord. 97-6 § 8)
12.08.090 - Appeal procedure.
The applicant shall have the right to appeal the denial of a permit to the city council. A notice of appeal shall be filed with the city clerk within two days after receipt of notice of the denial. The city council shall act upon the appeal at its next meeting following receipt of the notice of appeal.
(Ord. 97-6 § 9)
12.08.100 - Contents of permit.
Conditions to the issuance of any permit shall be set forth in the permit.
(Ord. 97-6 § 10)
12.08.110 - Duty of permittee.
A.
A permittee under this chapter shall comply with all terms and conditions of such permit and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
B.
The written permit obtained pursuant to this ordinance shall be carried by the person heading or leading the activity for which the permit was issued.
(Ord. 97-6 § 11)
12.08.120 - Revocation of permit.
The chief of police may revoke any permit issued under this chapter upon the failure of the permittee to comply with the terms and conditions of such permit or if the activity, because of the manner in which it is being conducted, or for any other reason, is jeopardizing those elements of the public safety or welfare set forth in Section 12.08.050 of this chapter.
(Ord. 97-6 § 12)
12.08.130 - Public conduct during a meeting, assembly or parade.
A.
It is unlawful for any person to unreasonably obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade or public meeting or assembly or with any person, vehicle or animal participating in such a parade, meeting or assembly for which a permit has been granted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
B.
The chief of police shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a highway or part thereof constituting part of the route of a parade. The chief of police shall post signs to such effect, and it is unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof.
(Ord. 97-6 § 13)
Chapter 12.12 - PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
Sections:

12.12.010 - Parks designated.
A.
Central Park. The space surrounding the Central of Georgia Depot and bounded on the north by North Broad Street; on the east by Lewis Street; on the south by South Broad Street; and on the west by Rountree Street shall be designated, named, set apart and known as Central Park.
B.
East Central Park. The space bounded on the north by North Broad Street; on the east by Leroy Street; on the south by South Broad Street; and on the west by Lewis Street shall be designated, named, set apart and known as East Central Park.
C.
West Central Park. The space bounded on the north by North Broad Street; on the east by Rountree Street; on the south by South Broad Street; and on the west by Kennedy Street shall be designated, named, set apart and known as West Central Park.
(Prior code §§ 14-1—14-3)
12.12.020 - Maintenance of parks.
The parks designated and named in this chapter shall be maintained and kept up by the city, aided by such cooperation as may from time to time be given by garden clubs and other civic organizations of the city.
(Prior code § 14-4)
12.12.030 - Use of grounds and facilities in general.
Each person using the public parks and grounds shall clean up all debris, extinguish all fires when such fires are permitted and leave the premises in good order and the facilities in a neat and sanitary condition.
(Prior code § 14-5)
12.12.040 - Prohibited acts generally.
It is unlawful for any person using city parks, grounds or facilities to either perform or permit to be performed any of the following acts:
A.
Wilfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or displace or remove any buildings; bridges; tables; benches; fireplaces; railings; paving or paving material; waterlines or other public utilities or parts or appurtenances thereof; signs, notices or placards whether temporary or permanent; monuments; stakes, posts or other boundary markers; or other structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances whatsoever, either real or personal;
B.
Throw, discharge or otherwise place or cause to be placed in any body of water in or adjacent to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer or drain flowing into such waters, any substance, matter or thing—liquid or solid—which will or may result in the pollution of such waters;
C.
Damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree or plant or any part thereof;
D.
Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, chase, tease, shoot or throw missiles at any animal, reptile or bird; or remove or have in his possession the young of any wild animal, or the eggs, nest or young of any other animal;
E.
Bring in or dump, deposit or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, refuse or other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in or contiguous to any park, or left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be placed in the proper receptacles where these are provided; and where receptacles are not so provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for the presence of same, and properly disposed of elsewhere;
F.
Violate any rule for the use of the park, made or approved by the council;
G.
Prevent any person from using any park, or any of facilities, or interfere with such use in compliance with this chapter and with the rules applicable to such use;
H.
Swim, bathe or wade in any waters or waterways in or adjacent to any park, except in such waters and at such places as are provided therefor, and in compliance with such regulations as are set forth in this chapter or may be hereafter adopted;
I.
Dress or undress in any place except in such bathing houses or structures as may be provided for that purpose.
J.
Place any vehicle in any park, grounds, or parking area for the purpose of sale. For the purpose of this section, a vehicle is presumed to be parked for the purpose of sale if there is visibly placed upon it a "for sale" sign, sales price, "as-is" sign, telephone number, window display, dealership tag, or any other tag, sign or marking otherwise indicating that said vehicle is offered or exposed for the purpose of sale, barter, or exchange.
(Amendment dated 8-9-10: amended by ord. dated 10-12-98; prior code § 14-6)
12.12.050 - Buildings in parks prohibited.
The erection or otherwise placing of any buildings or other structures of any kind or description in or upon any of the city parks is prohibited.
(Prior code § 14-7)
12.12.060 - Picnic areas and use.
No person in a park shall use any portion of the picnic areas, or of any of the buildings or structures therein, for the purpose of holding picnics to the exclusion of other persons, nor shall any person use such areas and facilities for an unreasonable time if the facilities are crowded.
(Prior code § 14-8)
12.12.070 - Games.
It is unlawful for any person to take part in or abet the playing of any games involving thrown or otherwise propelled objects such as balls, stones, arrows, javelins or model air-planes except in areas set apart for such forms of recreation. The playing of rough or potentially dangerous games such as football, baseball and soccer is prohibited except on fields, courts or areas provided therefor.
(Prior code § 14-9)
12.12.080 - Fires.
It is unlawful for any person to build or attempt to build a fire except in such areas and under such regulations as may be designated by the director of public works. No person shall drop, throw or otherwise scatter lighted matches, burning cigarettes or cigars, tobacco paper or other inflammable material within any park area or on any highway, road or street abutting or contiguous thereto.
(Prior code § 14-10)
12.12.090 - Animals.
It is unlawful for any person to bring any dangerous animal into any park, and it is unlawful to permit any dog to be in any park unless such dog is on a leash.
(Prior code § 14-11)
12.12.100 - Automobiles.
It is unlawful to drive or park any automobile except on a street, driveway or parking lot in any park; or to park or leave any such vehicle in any place other than one established for public parking.
(Prior code § 14-12)
12.12.110 - Sales.
It is unlawful for any person to vend, sell, peddle or offer for sale any commodity or article within any park without a permit from the council.
(Prior code § 14-13)
12.12.120 - Alcoholic beverages.
It is unlawful for any person within any park to have in his possession, custody or control any alcoholic beverage.
(Prior code § 14-14)
12.12.130 - Signs.
It is unlawful for any person to paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any sign, placard, advertisement or inscription, nor shall any person erect or cause to be erected any sign on any public lands or highways or roads adjacent to a park, except that these provisions shall not apply to any properly authorized government official in pursuit of any official duty.
(Prior code § 14-15)
Chapter 12.16 - URBAN FORESTRY
Sections:

12.16.010 - Title and jurisdiction.
This chapter shall be known as the urban forest/tree ordinance. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all public lands within the City of Metter.
(Ord. dated 6-1-96 § 1; Ord. of 4-10-06, § 1)
12.16.020 - Purpose and intent.
A.
The intent of this chapter is to:
1.
Recognize trees to be a valuable asset providing a healthier and more beautiful environment in which to live;
2.
Recognize that trees are economically beneficial in attracting new residents providing shade and cooling effects as well as preventing air noise and pollution;
3.
Recognize that trees also prevent erosion and assist in flood control;
4.
Establish standards limiting the removal of, and insuring the replacement of trees sufficient to safeguard the ecological and aesthetic environment necessary to a healthy happy community; and
5.
Not be punitive or to cause hardship to any individual, private or public company that uses care and diligence to protect trees within the city.
B.
The public purpose of this chapter is to:
1.
Protect the aesthetic quality provided by the natural tree cover on tracts of land being converted to urban development;
2.
Protect and enhance the aesthetic quality provided by street and park trees;
3.
Prevent soil erosion and reductions in the drainage holding capacity of land;
4.
Prevent increases and promote reductions in air pollution and carbon dioxide levels in the air;
5.
Provide for future planting of trees on city property;
6.
Provide for penalties for violations of this chapter;
7.
Establish a board to develop a plan to implement the purposes of this chapter and to study and investigate any matter or subject which will promote the objectives of this chapter, and to make recommendations as may be appropriate resulting from such studies and investigations;
8.
Establish tree protection regulations and a tree planting program in order to preserve, protect and enhance trees as a most valuable natural resource for the health, safety and welfare of the citizens, thus making Metter a better place to live; and
9.
Provide for other purposes necessary to carry out the purposes and objectives of this chapter.
(Ord. dated 6-1-96 § 2)
12.16.030 - Definitions.
For the purposes of this chapter, unless the context herein specifically indicates otherwise, the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the following meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the singular include the plural; the word "shall" is always mandatory and not directory; and the masculine includes the feminine.
"City" and "city of Metter" mean that area within the corporate boundaries of the city of Metter, Georgia.
"Department" means the city's department of public works.
"Injure" and "injury" mean any act which damages a tree, including but not limited to impact, cutting, carving, transplanting or knocking over any tree on a public street or right-of-way and as described in this section.
"Landmark tree" means a tree so designated pursuant to Section 12.16.080 of this chapter.
"Maintenance" means pruning, mulching, clipping, watering, staking, spraying, propping, fertilizing, bracing, treating for disease or injury, and any other acts which promote the life, growth, health or beauty of the city's trees.
"Park trees" means trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in the city parks and all other areas owned by the city or available to the public as a park provided by the city.
"Person" means any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or organization of any kind.
"Planting" means putting or setting into the ground or into a container to grow.
"Removal" means any intentional or negligent act which causes a tree or landscape material to decline and/or die within a period of three years, including but not limited to damage inflicted upon the root system of a tree by the application of toxic substances, the operation of heavy machinery, the change of natural grade above or below the root system or around the trunk of a tree, excessive pruning, or the severing of part or all of the trunk.
"Replacement value" means the actual cost to the city of replacing a tree or landscape material removed or destroyed, or if irreplaceable, its value as determined pursuant to the valuation formula adopted by the International Society of Arboriculture, as amended from time to time.
"Street" means the vehicular travel-way portion of any public street, avenue, boulevard, land, road, parkway, freeway or other public way.
"Tree board" means a board of private and public citizens appointed to perform specific duties as set forth in Section 12.16.070 of this chapter.
"Tree" and "street trees" means trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land lying between right-of-way lines on either side of all city streets, avenues or ways within the city.
"Urban forest" means all trees on lands within the corporate borders of the city subject to the jurisdiction of the streets and lanes department.
(Ord. dated 6-1-96 § 3)
12.16.040 - Urban forestry—Powers and duties of the city.
A.
The city shall encourage and support the efforts of the tree board to include, but not limited to, an active program of plantings within neighborhoods, such plantings to include the voluntary participation of neighborhood children and other residents to the fullest extent possible in both the planning and installation processes. Support may include, but need not be limited to, provision of trees, planting materials, sidewalk cutting and removal, planting labor, technical advice and organizational assistance.
B.
The city shall be responsible for the maintenance of street trees it has planted or for which the city has assumed maintenance responsibility. A property owner shall be responsible for the maintenance of street trees he or she has planted or for which he or she has assumed maintenance responsibility through the purchase of real property or otherwise. Upon a finding by the city, tree board or their designee that a street tree requires major maintenance or is being improperly maintained by the property owner, the city shall assume responsibility to notify the responsible party.
C.
The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The city may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public improvements, or affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest. This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent property owners providing that the selection and location of said tree(s) is in accordance with this chapter. Trees removed on city property must be replaced at the same location with like species within thirty (30) days or at proper tree planting time as determined by recommendation of the tree board.
(Ord. dated 6-1-96 § 4)
12.16.050 - Urban forest management.
A.
The spacing of street trees may be planted no closer together than the following: small trees, fifteen (15) feet; medium trees, thirty (30) feet; large trees, forty (40) feet; except in special planting designed or approved by a landscape architect.
B.
No street tree shall be planted closer than thirty (30) feet to any street corner, measured from the point of nearest intersection of curbs or curb lines; except in special planting designed or approved by the tree board. No street tree shall be planted closer than ten (10) feet of any utility pole or fire hydrant or within fifteen (15) feet of driveways and alleys.
C.
It is unlawful as a normal practice for any reason, for any firm, person or city department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property. Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted from this chapter at the determination of the tree board.
D.
Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection, so that there shall be clear space of ten (10) feet above the surface of the street or sidewalk. Such owners shall, after consultation with the tree board, remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic-control device or sign.
E.
All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the ground.
(Ord. dated 6-1-96 § 5)
12.16.060 - Protection of trees.
A.
Injury to or Destruction of Trees Prohibited; Injury Defined. It is unlawful for any person to injure or destroy a tree on any city street or public property unless the city orders removal of the tree. "Injury" includes but is not limited to the following: injurious attachment of any rope, wire, nails, advertising posters or other contrivance to any public tree; allowing any gaseous, liquid or solid substance that is harmful to trees to come into contact with them; setting fire or permitting any fire to burn when such fire or the heat therefrom will injure any part of any tree.
B.
Injury to or Destruction of Landscape Materials Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any landscape material in any street median, center strip or other publicly landscaped portion of a public right-of-way under the city's jurisdiction, except as authorized by the city.
C.
Construction Work—Protection of Trees Required. It is unlawful for any person to engage in any construction work on private or public property without first taking steps to protect street trees from damage to trunk, branches or roots, or damage caused by soil compaction or contamination. All trees on any street or other publicly owned property near any excavation or construction of any building, structure or street work shall be adequately protected in accordance with guidelines established by the tree board. At the time of issuing a building permit for any new construction within the city, a copy of this chapter shall be furnished permittee. A consultation between the tree board and the permittee may be requested in order to attempt to protect existing trees that will add to the aesthetic beauty of such property.
(Ord. dated 6-1-96 § 6)
12.16.070 - Tree board.
A.
There is established an advisory board to be known as the tree board consisting of six voting members and one public ex officio nonvoting member; also allowing ex officio nonvoting members to be appointed by the board. At least two of the members shall be professionally trained and experienced in a tree-related field. All members of the tree board shall serve without compensation.
B.
Appointments shall be made in the following manner: Each of the five council members shall appoint a member, to be approved by the mayor and a majority of council members. The mayor shall make one appointment, to be approved by a majority of council members. Ex officio members shall be appointed and approved by the majority of the tree board. All of the vacancies occurring during a term shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as appointments are made. During the first term of the board, appointees were designated from Wards 1 and 3 which served three years and appointees were designated from Wards 2 and 4 which served four years. In addition, the appointees by the mayor and the at large appointee served five years. Following the first term of the board, all appointees shall serve three-year terms, not to exceed three consecutive terms. Wards 1 and 3 shall hereinafter be referred to as District 1, seats 1, 2, and 3. Wards 2 and 4 shall hereinafter be referred to as District 2, seats 4 and 5. One appointee shall fill each seat, including three seats in District 1 and two seats in District 2. There shall be no designated appointees at large.
C.
The tree board shall meet at least six times a year, choose its own officers, make its own operating rules and procedures and shall keep minutes of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business. The failure of a member to attend at least one-half of the regularly scheduled meetings shall be grounds for removal from the board by majority vote of the members.
D.
The tree board shall serve in an advisory capacity to the mayor and council on matters relating to the implementation of this chapter and to tree management in the city, including appropriate funding mechanisms.
E.
The tree board shall use its best efforts to inventory the condition and major-maintenance needs of all street trees in the city, making recommendations to mayor and council. Maintenance recommendations shall be in accordance to species-specific standards issued by the International Society of Arboriculture. Recommendations shall include, but need not be limited to: structural pruning as necessary to maintain public safety and to sustain the health, safety and natural growth habit of the tree; routine adjustment and timely removal of stakes, ties, tree guards and tree grates; watering sufficient to assure the establishment and survival of a tree; fertilizing as needed; pest-and disease-management procedures as needed and in a manner consistent with public health and ecological diversity; and replacement of missing or damaged trees.
F.
It is unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or otherwise interfere with the tree board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any trees.
(Ord. dated 6-1-96 § 7; Ord. of 4-10-06, §§ 2, 3)
12.16.080 - Landmark trees—Designation.
With the advice of the tree board, the city shall adopt criteria for the designation of landmark trees, which criteria shall include consideration of the age, size, shape, species, location, historical association, visual quality or other contribution to the city's character. Upon the recommendation of the tree board, mayor and council may designate as a "landmark tree" any tree on city property meeting the criteria adopted by the city, or may rescind such designations.
(Ord. dated 6-1-96 § 8)
12.16.090 - Violation—Penalty.
A.
Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be chargeable as a misdemeanor. Every violation is punishable by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first violation, two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second violation within one year and five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each additional violation within one year.
B.
In addition to the penalty set forth in subsection A of this section, any person who removes, damages or destroys a tree in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall pay a sum of money equal to either the cost of its replacement or the diminishment in its value. Any and all amounts paid or collected pursuant to this subsection shall be deposited into a revolving fund to be used by the city for replacing and planting trees.
(Ord. dated 6-1-96 § 9)
