ARTICLE IV. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Section 41. - Division of the unincorporated area of the county into districts.
For the purpose of this resolution, the unincorporated area of Jones County, Georgia, is divided into 16 districts as follows:
AG-1 Agricultural/rural district
AG-R Agricultural/residential district
R-R Rural-residential district
R-1 Single-family residential district
R-2 Two-family residential district
R-3 Multifamily residential district
R-MH Manufactured home residential district
R-1-R Single-family rural-residential district
R-1A Single-family residential district
C-1 Neighborhood commercial district
C-2 General commercial district
C-3 Entertainment commercial district
M-1 Wholesale and light industrial district
M-2 General industrial district
PUD Planned unit development district
HD Historic (overlay) district
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 42. - Incorporation of the zoning maps.
The sectional atlas property maps bound in one volume entitled "Official Zoning District Maps for the Unincorporated Area of Jones County, Georgia," hereinafter called official zoning maps, with all notations, references and other information shown thereon shall be the official zoning maps and are hereby made a part of this resolution. Said maps are hereby made a public record and shall be kept permanently in the office of the zoning enforcement officer, where the maps will be accessible to the general public.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 43. - Map amendment.
If, in accordance with provisions of this resolution, changes are made in the district boundaries and other information portrayed in the official zoning maps, changes shall be made on the official zoning maps promptly after the amendment has been approved by the board of commissioners, together with a numerical entry on the official zoning maps referring to the application on file which states the date of the official action and the brief description of the nature of the changes. No amendment to this resolution which involves a matter portrayed on the official zoning maps shall become effective until after such change and entry have been made on said maps.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 44. - Rules for determining boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts as shown on the official zoning maps, the following rules shall apply:
44.1.
Unless otherwise indicated, the district boundaries are indicated as approximately following property lines, land lot lines, centerlines of streets, highways, alleys or railroads, shorelines of streams, reservoirs, or other bodies of water, or civil boundaries, and they shall be construed to follow such lines.
44.2.
Where district boundaries are approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways, or railroads, or rights-of-way of the same, or the centerlines of streams, reservoirs, or other bodies of water, or said lines extended, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the official zoning maps. If no distance is given, such dimensions shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the official zoning maps.
44.3.
Where a district boundary line appearing on the official zoning maps divides a lot which is single ownership at the time of this enactment, the use classification of a larger portion may be extended to the remainder by the board of commissioners without recourse to amendment procedure.
44.4.
Where a public road, street or alley is officially vacated or abandoned, the regulations applicable to the property to which it is reverted shall apply to such vacated or abandoned road, street or alley.
44.5.
In case the exact location of a boundary cannot be determined by the foregoing methods, the board of commissioners shall, upon application, determine the location of the boundary.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 45. - Comprehensiveness of zoning districts.
The purpose of this resolution is to place all portions of the unincorporated area of Jones County into zoning districts. Should any area appear either by reference to the maps or by interpretation to be inadvertently or otherwise omitted from a classification district, that area or areas are hereby placed in an R-1 single-family residential district and are subject to all the regulations pertaining thereto until such time as the board of commissioners can determine its proper zoning district classification.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
