Chapter 70 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Defect in vehicle or load, § 34-40; transportation of metal rails, pillars or columns, § 34-46; vehicle repair in residential areas, § 34-50; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 54; transporting solid waste and litter, § 62-33; off-street automobile parking, app. A, § 62; off-street loading and unloading spaces, app. A, § 63; control of curb cuts and vision clearance, app. A, § 64.
State Law reference— Authority of county to regulate traffic in unincorporated areas, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; power of local authorities generally, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 70-1. - Adoption of uniform rules of the road.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 40-6-370, O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-1—40-6-395, known as the uniform rules of the road, are hereby adopted as and for the traffic regulations of the county with like effect as if recited in this chapter.
(Res. of 7-2-1991)
State Law reference— Adoption of uniform rules of the road by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-372.
Sec. 70-2. - Parental responsibility.
It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor under the age of 16 years to permit, whether knowingly or through ineffective control or supervision, such minor to violate any provision of this Code or state law regarding the operation of vehicles.
Sec. 70-3. - Temporary traffic regulations.
In cases where traffic upon the roads of the county may become congested upon occasions of parades, at theaters and other public assemblages where large numbers of vehicles are assembled, the sheriff may make temporary rules directing and regulating the traffic in these congested districts, and any person, who, after being warned of the temporary traffic regulations, shall violate them, shall be liable therefor as for other violations of this Code.
Secs. 70-4—70-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OPERATION OF VEHICLES

Sec. 70-31. - General speed limit.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on any street or portion of a street in the county at a rate of speed greater than 30 miles per hour unless another speed limit is posted or otherwise designated for such street or portion of a street.
Sec. 70-32. - Maximum speed limits on specific streets.
The board of commissioners may alter the maximum speed limits established by section 70-31 on any street or portion thereof within the county in accord with the provisions of state law. Whenever signs are posted giving notice of the maximum legal speed limit so established for a particular street or portion thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any vehicle at a rate of speed in excess of such limit.
Sec. 70-33. - Traffic, speed, etc., zones; signs and traffic control devices.
(a)
Upon approval of the board of commissioners, the sheriff is authorized to designate and maintain by appropriate traffic control signs, markings and devices:
(1)
Crosswalks at intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway.
(2)
Other safety zones for pedestrians.
(3)
Traffic lanes.
(4)
Speed, parking, truck or other traffic control zones.
(5)
Stop, yield, one-way and other directional devices.
(6)
Any other sign, marking, device or zone necessary for orderly and safe conditions on the roads and streets of the county.
(b)
All traffic control signs, signals, devices and markings shall conform to specifications in the manual on uniform traffic control devices adopted by the state transportation board. All signs and signals required under this chapter for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout the county. All traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this Code shall be official traffic control devices of the county.
(c)
The county clerk shall keep and maintain an accurate official map setting out all traffic zones, markings, signs and other traffic control devices. The map and any amendments or changes thereto shall be adopted by the board of commissioners and the map shall be known as the official traffic control map of the county. An official copy thereof shall be kept in the office of the county clerk; shall be available to the public; and copies certified by the county clerk shall be admissible in court as proof of the location of any traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device.
(d)
No person shall be charged with violating a traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device unless appropriate signs, markings or devices are in fact operating or in existence on the streets involved.
(e)
Any violation of any traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device established hereunder shall be a violation of this Code.
Sec. 70-34. - Speed detection devices.
(a)
The county is hereby authorized to use speed detection devices for the purpose of traffic control on the roads and streets in the county.
(b)
Such speed detection devices shall be used only for the purpose of public safety and traffic control, and shall not be used for the purpose of raising revenue.
Sec. 70-35. - Covering of loads.
No person shall operate or load any vehicle on the public streets and roads of this county unless the vehicle is constructed, loaded and securely covered so as to prevent any of its load from dropping, escaping or shifting in such a manner as to create a safety hazard or in such a manner as to litter the streets and roads of the county.
Sec. 70-36. - Parking in deceleration or acceleration lanes prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to park any automobile, truck, bus, truck tractor, trailer, tractor, trailer combination, motorcycle, moped, or other motor vehicle within or upon the deceleration or acceleration lanes lying in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(b)
Deceleration and acceleration lanes shall be defined for the purpose of this section as those strips of pavement lying adjacent to and to the east of the northbound lanes of traffic and adjacent to and to the west of the southbound lanes of traffic which are not part of the regular roadway but afford access into and out of the driveways and side roads along the highway.
(c)
Violation of the provisions of this section shall be a violation of a county ordinance and shall be prosecuted in the municipal court. A violation of this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-19.
Sec. 70-37. - Off-road vehicles.
(a)
As used in this section, the following definitions shall apply:
Access means to a place where ORVs can be lawfully operated.
Operate means to ride in or on, and be actual control of the operation of an ORV.
ORV or off-road vehicle means a motor driven off-road recreational vehicle capable of cross-country travel with out benefit of a road or trail, on or immediately over land, snow, ice, marsh, swampland, or other natural terrain. It includes, but is not limited to, a multi-track or multi-wheel drive or low pressure tire vehicle, and amphibious machine, a ground effect air cushion vehicle, or other means of transportation driven by power from a source other than muscle or wind. "ORV" or vehicle does not include a snowmobile, a farm vehicle being used for farming, a vehicle used for military, fire, emergency, or law enforcement purposes, a construction or logging vehicle used in performance of its common function. This includes, but is not limited to, ORVs commonly known as three-wheelers and four-wheelers.
Public highway or public roadway means that portion of a county road that is improved, maintained and used by the public for vehicular travel, including any improved shoulders.
(b)
Any person operating an "ORV" vehicle under any of the following conditions shall be deemed to be in violation of this section and shall be punishable as provided by subsection (c);
(1)
Without operative brakes or without mufflers or other silencing equipment.
(2)
On any public property, including, but not limited to, any road or right-of-way under the possession or control of the county, except property designated by the board of commissioners for use by "ORV" vehicles;
(3)
On any private property without the express written permission of the owner of the property or his agent, proof of which shall be in the immediate possession of the operator of a off-road vehicle at all times when operating such vehicle and which shall be displayed upon demand of any law enforcement officer.
(c)
Any person who violates this article is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of no more than $500.00 or imprisonment for 90 days, or both, and full restitution of any damages caused or experienced as a result thereof.
(Ord. No. 200610-2o, §§ 1—3, 10-3-2006)
