Chapter 50 - HISTORIC PRESERVATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings, construction and related activities, ch. 18; environment, ch. 34; water and sewers, ch. 74; comprehensive land development, app. A.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 50-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Certificate of appropriateness means a document evidencing approval by the historic preservation commission of an application to make a material change in the appearance of a designated historic property or of a property located within a designated historic district.
Exterior architectural features means the architectural style, general design, and general arrangement of the exterior of a building or other structure, including but not limited to the kind of texture of the building material and the type and style of all windows, doors, signs, and other appurtenant architectural fixtures, details or elements relative to the foregoing.
Exterior environmental features means all those aspects of the landscape or the development of the site which affect the historical character of the property.
Historic district means a geographically definable area which contains structures, sites, works of art or a combination thereof which exhibit a special historical, architectural, or environmental character as designated by the board of commissioners.
Historic property means an individual structure, site, or work of art, which exhibits a special historical, architectural or environmental character as designated by the board of commissioners.
Material change in appearance means a change that will affect either the exterior architectural or environmental features of a historic property or any structure, site, or work of art within a historic district, and may include any one or more of the following:
(1)
A reconstruction or alteration of the size, shape, or facade of a historic property, including any of its architectural elements or details;
(2)
Demolition of a historic structure;
(3)
Commencement of excavation for construction purposes;
(4)
A change in the location of advertising visible from the public right-of-way;
(5)
The erection, alteration, restoration or removal of any building or other structure within a historic property or district, including walls, fences, steps and pavements, or other appurtenant features.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § XI)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-4.
Sec. 50-2. - Penalty provisions.
Violations of any provisions of this chapter shall be punished as provided in section 1-19.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § VII)
Sec. 50-3. - Expenditure of funds.
Any expenditures of public funds will first have to be approved by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § XII)
Sec. 50-4. - Ordinary repair.
Ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior or architectural feature in or on a historic property that does not involve a material change in design, material, or outer appearance thereof is excluded from review.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § VI(A))
Sec. 50-5. - Conformity with building codes.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as to exempt property owners from complying with existing city or county building codes, nor to prevent any property owner from making any use of his property not prohibited by other statutes, ordinances or regulations.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § VI(B))
Cross reference— Construction codes, § 18-31 et seq.
Secs. 50-6—50-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

Sec. 50-31. - Appointment.
The members of the historic preservation commission shall be appointed by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § II(A))
Sec. 50-32. - Composition.
The historic preservation commission shall consist of three members who shall be residents of the county, and who shall have demonstrated special interest, experience, or education in history, architecture, or the preservation of historic resources.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § II(C))
Sec. 50-33. - Terms.
Members of the historic preservation commission shall serve three-year terms. The initial members of the commission shall be appointed in such a manner as to achieve staggered terms.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § II(C); Ord. No. 2009-07, 9-15-2009)
Sec. 50-34. - Compensation.
Members of the historic preservation commission shall not receive a salary, but will be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the furtherance of their powers and duties.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § II(C))
Sec. 50-35. - Advisory authority.
The historic preservation commission shall have only advisory authority in recommending landmark and historic district designation.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § II(A))
Sec. 50-36. - Planning function.
The historic preservation commission shall be considered a part of the planning functions of the county.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § II(B))
Sec. 50-37. - Powers.
The historic preservation commission shall be authorized to:
(1)
Prepare an inventory of all property within its respective historic preservation jurisdiction having the potential for designation as historic property;
(2)
Recommend to the board of commissioners specific places, districts, sites, buildings, structures, or works of art to be designated by ordinance as historic properties or historic districts;
(3)
Review applications for certificates of appropriateness, and grant or deny such applications in accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
(4)
Recommend to the board of commissioners that the designation of any place, district, site, building, structure, or work of art as a historic property or as a historic district be revoked or removed;
(5)
Restore or preserve any historic properties acquired by the county;
(6)
Promote the acquisition by the county of facade easements and conservation easements in accordance with the provisions of the Facade and Conservation Easement Act of 1976 (1976 Ga. Laws, page 1181);
(7)
Conduct an educational program on historic properties located within its historic preservation jurisdiction;
(8)
Make such investigations and studies of matters relating to historic preservation as the board of commissioners or the historic preservation commission may, from time to time, deem necessary or appropriate for the purposes of preserving historic resources;
(9)
Seek out state and federal funds for historic preservation and make recommendations to the board of commissioners concerning the most appropriate uses of any funds acquired;
(10)
Submit to the historic preservation section of the department of natural resources a list of historic properties or historic districts designated;
(11)
Perform historic preservation activities as the official agency of the county's historic preservation program;
(12)
Employ persons if necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the commission;
(13)
Receive donations, grants, funds or gifts of historic property, and acquire and sell historic properties. The commission shall not obligate the county without prior consent;
(14)
Review and make comments to the state historic preservation office concerning the nomination of properties within its jurisdiction to the National Register of Historic Places.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § II(D))
Sec. 50-38. - Meetings.
The historic preservation commission shall provide for the time and place of regular meetings, and for the calling of special meetings. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § II(E))
Sec. 50-39. - Rules of procedure.
The historic preservation commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business and consideration of applications. The commission shall have the flexibility to adopt rules of procedure without amendment to this article. The latest edition of Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised shall determine the order of business at all meetings.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § II(E))
Sec. 50-40. - Funding.
The historic preservation commission shall have the authority to accept donations and shall ensure that these funds do not displace appropriated governmental funds.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § II(F))
Sec. 50-41. - Records.
A public record shall be kept of the historic preservation commission's resolutions, proceedings, and actions.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § II(G))
Secs. 50-42—50-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND LANDMARKS

Sec. 50-71. - Preliminary research.
The historic preservation commission shall have the authority to compile and collect information and conduct surveys of historic resources within the county.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § III(A)(1))
Sec. 50-72. - Nominations for action.
The historic preservation commission shall present to the board of commissioners nominations for historic districts and local landmarks.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § III(A)(2))
Sec. 50-73. - Preparation of report on proposed designations.
(a)
The historic preservation commission shall prepare formal reports when nominating historic districts or local landmarks. These reports shall be used to educate the community and to provide a permanent record of the designation. The report will follow guidelines for nominating structures to the National Register of Historic Places and shall consist of two parts:
(1)
A physical description; and
(2)
A description of historic significance.
(b)
This report will be submitted to the historic preservation section of the department of natural resources.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § III(A)(3))
Sec. 50-74. - Designation of historic district.
(a)
Criteria. A historic district is a geographically definable area, which contains structures, sites, works of art, or a combination thereof, which:
(1)
Have special character or special historic/aesthetic value or interest;
(2)
Represent one or more periods or styles of architecture typical of one or more eras in the history of the municipality, county, state, or region;
(3)
Cause such area by reason of such factors to constitute a visibly perceptible section of the municipality or county.
(b)
Boundaries. Boundaries of a historic district shall be specified on tax maps; these boundaries will be included in the separate ordinances designating local districts. Boundaries specified in legal notices shall coincide with the boundaries finally designated. Districts shall be shown on the official zoning map; or, in the absence of zoning, on an official map designated as a public record.
(c)
Evaluation of properties. Individual properties within historic districts shall be classified as:
(1)
Historic (more than 50 years old);
(2)
Nonhistoric (less than 50 years old, yet possessing architectural character);
(3)
Intrusions (structures less than 50 years old which do not contribute to the historical character of the district).
(d)
Affirmation of existing zoning. This chapter is not a use provision, and local zoning laws, where they exist, remain in effect until modified.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § III(B))
Sec. 50-75. - Designation of landmark.
(a)
Criteria. A historic landmark is a structure, site, or work of art, including the adjacent area necessary for the proper appreciation or use thereof, deemed worthy of preservation by reason of value to the county for one or more of the following reasons:
(1)
It is an outstanding example of a structure representative of its era;
(2)
It is one of the few remaining examples of past architectural style;
(3)
It is a place or structure associated with an event or person of historic or cultural significance to the county, state or the region.
(b)
Boundary description. Boundaries shall be clearly defined for individual properties on tax maps and located on the official zoning map, or in the absence of zoning, on an official map designated as a public record.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § III(C))
Sec. 50-76. - Application for designation.
(a)
Historic district. A historical society, neighborhood association, or group of property owners may apply for designation.
(b)
Landmark structure. A historical society or property owner may apply for designation.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § III(D)(1))
Sec. 50-77. - Required public hearings.
The historic preservation commission and the board of commissioners shall hold a public hearing on the proposed ordinance for designation. Notice of the hearing shall be published in at least three consecutive issues in the legal organ of the county, and property to be affected will be posted with public notice. All such notices will be published or posted not less than ten nor more than 20 days prior to the date set for the public hearing.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § III(D)(2))
Sec. 50-78. - Notification of property owners of proposed designation.
Any ordinance designating any property or district as historic shall describe each property to be designated, set forth the names of the owners of the designated property, and require that a certificate of appropriateness be obtained from the historic preservation commission prior to any material changes in appearance of the designated property.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § III(D)(3))
Sec. 50-79. - Requirements regarding district boundaries.
Any ordinance designating any property or district as historic shall require that the designated property or district be shown on the official zoning map, or other designated map in the absence of zoning, of the county and kept as a public record to provide notice of such designation.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § III(D)(4))
Sec. 50-80. - Notification of historic preservation section.
Prior to designating any property or district as historic, the historic preservation commission must submit a report on the historic, cultural, architectural, or aesthetic significance of each place, district, site, building, structure, or work of art, to the historic preservation section of the department of natural resources. Thirty days will be allowed to prepare written comments.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § III(D)(5))
Sec. 50-81. - Ordinance for designation announcement.
A decision to accept or deny the ordinance for designation shall be made within 15 days following the public hearing, and shall be in the form of a resolution to the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § III(D)(6))
Sec. 50-82. - Notification of adoption of ordinance for designation.
Within 30 days immediately following the adoption of the ordinance for designation, the owners and occupants of each designated historic property, and the owners and occupants of each structure, site, or work of art located within a designated historic district shall be given written notification of such designation by the board of commissioners; which notice shall apprize such owners and occupants of the necessity of obtaining a certificate of appropriateness prior to undertaking any material change in appearance of the historic property designated or within the historic district to be designated.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § III(D)(7))
Sec. 50-83. - Notification of other agencies regarding designation.
The historic preservation commission shall notify all necessary agencies within the county of the ordinance for designation, including the local historical organization.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § III(D)(8))
Sec. 50-84. - Moratorium on applications.
If an ordinance for designation in being considered, the historic preservation commission shall have the power to freeze the status of the involved property.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § III(D)(9))
Sec. 50-85. - Authority to amend or rescind designation.
The historic preservation commission has the authority to amend and/or rescind the designation if necessary.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § III(D)(10))
Secs. 50-86—50-110. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS

Sec. 50-111. - Approval of alterations or new construction.
After the designation by ordinance of a historic property or of a historic district, no material change in the appearance at such historic property, or of a structure, site, or work of art within such historic district, shall be made or be permitted to be made by the owner or occupant thereof, unless or until application for a certificate of appropriateness has been submitted to and approved by the historic preservation commission.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § IV(A))
Sec. 50-112. - Approval of new construction within designated districts.
The historic preservation commission shall issue certificates of appropriateness to new structures constructed within designated historic districts. These structures shall conform in design, scale, building materials, setback, and landscaping to the character of the district specified in the commission's design guidelines.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § IV(B))
Sec. 50-113. - Guidelines and criteria.
When considering applications for certificates of appropriateness to existing buildings, the Secretary of the Interior's standards of rehabilitation shall be used as a guideline along with any other criteria adopted by the commission.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § IV(C))
Sec. 50-114. - Submission of plans.
An application for certificate of appropriateness shall be accompanied by such drawings, photographs, or plans, as may be required by the historic preservation commission.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § IV(D))
Sec. 50-115. - Acceptable reaction to application.
(a)
The historic preservation commission shall approve the application and issue a certificate of appropriateness if it finds that the proposed material changes in the appearance would not have a substantial adverse effect on the aesthetic, historic, or architectural significance and value of the historic property or the historic district. In making this determination, the commission shall consider, in addition to any other pertinent factors, the historical and architectural value and significance, architectural style, general design arrangement, texture, and material of the architectural features involved, and the relationship thereof to the exterior architectural style, and pertinent features of the other structures in the immediate neighborhood.
(b)
The historic preservation commission shall deny a certificate of appropriateness if it finds that the proposed material changes in appearance would have substantial adverse effects on the aesthetic, historic, or architectural significance and value of the historic property or historic district.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § IV(E))
Sec. 50-116. - Public hearings; notices, and rights to be heard.
At least seven days prior to review of a certificate of appropriateness, the historic preservation commission shall take such action as may reasonably be required to inform the owners of any property likely to be affected by reason of the application, and shall give the applicant and such owners an opportunity to be heard. In cases where the commission deems it necessary, it may hold a public hearing concerning the application.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § IV(F))
Sec. 50-117. - Interior alteration.
In its review of applications for certificates of appropriateness, the historic preservation commission shall not consider interior arrangement or use having no effect on exterior architectural features.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § IV(G))
Sec. 50-118. - Technical advice.
When dealing with difficult technical questions, the historic preservation commission shall have the power to seek expert advice.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § IV(H))
Sec. 50-119. - Deadline for approval or rejection.
(a)
The historic preservation commission shall approve or reject an application for a certificate of appropriateness within not more than 45 days after the filing thereof by the owner or occupant of a historic property, or of a structure, site, or work of art located within a historic district. Evidence of approval shall be by a certificate of appropriateness issued by the commission.
(b)
Failure of the historic preservation commission to act within such 45 days shall constitute approval, and no other evidence of approval shall be needed.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § IV(I))
Sec. 50-120. - Necessary actions to be taken upon rejection.
(a)
If the historic preservation commission rejects an application, it shall state its reasons for doing so, and shall transmit a record of such actions and reasons, in writing, to the applicant. The commission may suggest alternative courses of action it thinks proper if it disapproves of the application submitted. The applicant, if he so desires, may make modifications to the plans and may resubmit the application at any time after doing so.
(b)
In cases where the applicant covers a material change in the appearance of a structure which would require the issuance of a building permit, the rejection of the application for a certificate of appropriateness by the historic preservation commission shall be binding upon the building inspector or other administrative officer charged with issuing building permits and, in such a case, no building permit shall be issued.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § IV(J))
Sec. 50-121. - Undue hardship.
Where by reason of unusual circumstances the strict application of any provision of this chapter would result in the exceptional practical difficulty or undue hardship upon any owner of a specific property, the historic preservation commission in passing upon applications, shall have the power to vary or modify strict adherence to such provisions, or to interpret the meaning of such provisions so as to relieve such difficulty or hardship. Provided, such variances, modifications, or interpretations shall remain in harmony with the general purpose and intent of such provisions, so that the architectural or historical integrity, or character of the property, shall be conserved and substantial justice done. In granting variances, the commission may impose such reasonable and additional stipulations and conditions as will, in its judgement, best fulfill the purpose of this chapter. An undue hardship shall be a situation not of the person's own making, which is:
(1)
A problem unique to a specific property; or
(2)
In order to comply with this chapter, the person will conflict with any other ordinance of the county.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § IV(K))
Sec. 50-122. - Requirement of conformance.
Work not in accordance with an issued certificate of appropriateness shall be halted before it is completed.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § IV(L))
Sec. 50-123. - Certificate of appropriateness void if construction not commenced.
A certificate of appropriateness shall become void unless construction is commenced within six months of its date of issuance. Certificates of appropriateness shall be issued for a period of 18 months and are renewable.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § IV(M))
Sec. 50-124. - Recording of applications.
The historic preservation commission shall keep a record of all applications for certificates of appropriateness, and at all the commission's proceedings in connection with such applications.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § IV(N))
Sec. 50-125. - Acquisition of property.
The historic preservation commission may, where such action is authorized by the board of commissioners, and is reasonably necessary or appropriate for the preservation of a unique historic property, enter into negotiations with the owner for the acquisition of a gift, purchase, exchange, or otherwise, of the property or any interest therein.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § IV(O))
Sec. 50-126. - Appeals.
Any person adversely affected by any determination made by the historic preservation commission relative to the issuance or denial of a certificate of appropriateness may appeal such determination to the board of commissioners; the appeal must be applied for within 15 days after notification is sent. The county may approve, modify, or reject the determination made by the commission, if the board of commissioners finds that the commission abused its discretion in reaching its decision. Appeals from decisions by the county made pursuant to the state historic preservation act may be taken to the county superior court in the manner provided by law, for appeals from conviction for municipal or county ordinance violations.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § IV(P))
Sec. 50-127. - Local or state government actions.
The department of transportation and any contractors, including cities and counties, performing work funded by the department of transportation are exempt from this article. Local governments are exempt from the requirement of obtaining certificates of appropriateness; provided, however, that local governments shall notify the commission 45 business days prior to beginning any undertaking that would otherwise require a certificate of appropriateness and allow the commission an opportunity to comment. (Ga. L. 1980, p. 1723, sec. 7)
(Ord. No. 201411-1o, 12-2-2014)
Secs. 50-128—50-160. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - DEMOLITION OR RELOCATION APPLICATIONS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Buildings, construction and related activities, ch. 18.

Sec. 50-161. - Authority to comment on applications.
The historic preservation commission shall have the authority to comment on any request for a permit to demolish or relocate a structure within a historic district, or classified as a historic landmark.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § V(A))
Sec. 50-162. - Actions acceptable in reaction to application for permit.
The historic preservation commission shall have the authority to deny demolition or relocation permits within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § V(B))
Sec. 50-163. - Consideration of predemolition plans.
A public hearing shall be scheduled for each application for demolition. This hearing shall be scheduled prior to the delay period specified.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § V(C))
Sec. 50-164. - Consideration at postdemolition plans.
The historic preservation commission shall not grant demolition permission without reviewing at the same time the plans for the building that would replace the structure.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § V(D))
Sec. 50-165. - Demolition.
A decision by the commission approving or denying a certificate of appropriateness for the demolition of buildings, structures, sites, tress judged to be 50 years old or older, or objects shall be guided by:
(1)
The historic, scenic or architectural significance of the building, structure, site, tree or object.
(2)
The importance of the building, structure, site, tree, or object to the ambiance of a district.
(3)
The difficulty or the impossibility of reproducing such a building, structure, site, tree, or object because of its design, texture, material, detail, or unique location.
(4)
Whether the building, structure, site, tree, or object is one of the last remaining examples of its kind in the neighborhood or the city.
(5)
Whether there are definite plans for use of the property if the proposed demolition is carried out, and what the effect of those plans on the character of the surrounding area would be.
(6)
Whether reasonable measures can be taken to save the building, structure, site, tree, or object from collapse.
(7)
Whether the building, structure, site, tree, or object is capable of earning reasonable economic return on its value.
(Ord. of 12-3-1985, § V(E); Ord. No. 201411-1o, 12-2-2014)
