DIVISION 245. - MHP MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT

Sec. 245-010. - Purpose and intent.
The MHP Manufactured Home Park District is composed of residential developments of manufactured homes adhering to the following conditions outlined in division 245. The purpose of this district is to set aside certain areas which are used exclusively for manufactured home parks and accessory uses. All new park communities or additions to existing park communities must first have site plans approved by Newton County to ensure that all factors relating to drainage, topography, and land development promote the health, safety, and harmony of the community. Should an existing lot of record, not intended for a minor or major subdivision, zoned under this district become obsolete because of surrounding development trends, development of site-built homes may be allowed.
Sec. 245-020. - Principal uses and structures.
Principal uses and structures shall be allowed in the MHP Manufactured Home Park District in accordance with division 505 of this ordinance.
Sec. 245-030. - Accessory uses and structures.
Accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in the MHP Manufactured Home Park District in accordance with section 510-020(C) of this ordinance.
Sec. 245-040. - Conditional uses.
Conditional uses shall be permitted in the MHP Manufactured Home Park District in accordance with division 505 of this ordinance. Conditional uses shall be subject to the additional use standards established in division 510 of this ordinance.
Sec. 245-050. - Property development standards.
In any district where manufactured home parks are permitted, the following minimum standards shall apply:
A.
Minimum area and width.
1.
The minimum parcel area for manufactured home parks shall be 15 acres.
2.
The minimum road frontage shall be 200 feet.
3.
The minimum width for residential sites shall be 85 feet.
4.
Minimum lot area for site-built homes should be:
a.
15,000 square feet if both public water and sewer are provided;
b.
25,500 square feet if public and septic tank are provided;
c.
51,000 square feet if individual wells and septic tanks are provided.
5.
Minimum lot width shall be:
a.
85 feet if both public water and sewer are provided;
b.
100 feet for all other lots.
B.
Minimum number of sites. The minimum number of sites completed at the time of first occupancy shall be 25. The developer shall submit plans for a minimum of 50 sites at the time of first plan review. Final layout, including water, sewer, streets, drainage, health, and other applicable plans for a minimum of 50 sites shall be submitted for approval to the county at the time of the request for a certificate of occupancy for the initial 25 sites.
C.
Minimum floor area. The minimum heated floor area of each manufactured home shall be 720 square feet for all units. Site-built homes shall be 1,800 square feet.
D.
Minimum site area. The minimum area for an individual manufactured home site shall be:
1.
12,000 square feet if both water and sewer are provided;
2.
25,500 square feet if public water and septic tank are provided;
3.
51,000 square feet if both individual wells and septic tanks are provided.
E.
Setback. Manufactured homes shall be so located as to maintain a 20-foot minimum spacing between all homes and structural improvements regardless of the orientation. A ten-foot minimum internal rear yard/or service area shall be maintained between the internal lot line and the manufactured home and other structural improvements. A 20-foot minimum front yard shall be maintained between all internal streets and the manufactured home or other structural improvements. Required yards at the edges of the park development shall be 50 feet from all major or arterial roads as designated by Newton County; 35 feet from all collector or local roads as designated by Newton County; 50 feet from all other abutting property lines; and be treated as front yards for the district. No accessory uses shall be allowed in front yards.
F.
Residential buffers. Where lots on the perimeter of the development abut adjacent single-family development, they shall meet one of the following requirements:
1.
Contain only manufactured housing meeting all residential design standards in accordance with these regulations; or
2.
Provide buffers and screening per division 520.
G.
Improvement standards. Vehicular access and site improvements shall be provided in conformance with division 510 of the Newton County Development Regulations.
H.
Maximum impervious surface coverage. The maximum impervious surface coverage shall be 40 percent of the gross site.
I.
Installation. All manufactured homes located within the park shall require installation in accordance with division 105 of this ordinance and division 515 of the Newton County Development Regulations.
(Ord. No. O-091713a, ยง 1, 9-17-2013)
