DIVISION 425. - WETLANDS PROTECTION OVERLAY

Sec. 425-010. - Purpose and intent.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. ยง 12-2-8 and the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division's Rules for Environmental Planning Criteria chapter 391-3-16, the wetlands protection overlay district establishes regulations to promote the wise use of wetlands and protect them from alterations that will significantly affect or reduce their primary functions for water quality, floodplain and erosion control, groundwater recharge, aesthetic natural areas and wildlife habitat areas.
Sec. 425-020. - Wetlands protection overlay district.
These regulations affect all wetlands in Newton County as generally designated in the Newton County Wetlands Protection Overlay District Map available for inspection during office hours in the Newton County Planning Department.
Sec. 425-030. - Wetlands development permit requirements.
No activity or use except those identified in section 425-040 shall be allowed in the wetlands protection overlay district without issuance of a local development permit. Local permits will only be issued if the proposed use is in compliance with the requirements of the underlying zoning district and the wetlands protection overlay district. Furthermore, if the area of proposed development is located within 100 feet of the wetlands boundaries as established by the wetlands protection overlay district map, a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers delineation is required under section 404 of the Clean Water Act. If wetlands are altered or degraded, mitigation to offset losses may be required as a condition of a section 404 permit. Local development permits will not be issued until after any necessary section 404 permits have been secured.
Sec. 425-040. - Permitted uses.
Subject to federal and state requirements, the following uses are permitted by right in the wetlands protection overlay district to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance or law and provided that they do not require structures, grading, filling, draining, or dredging unless a permit pursuant to section 404 of the Clean Water Act is obtained.
A.
Forestry practices applied in accordance with best management practices approved by the Georgia Forestry Commission.
B.
Conservation or preservation of soil, water, vegetation, fish or other wildlife, provided they do not affect waters of the State of Georgia or of the United States in such a way that they would require an individual permit pursuant to section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
C.
Outdoor passive recreation activities, including fishing, bird watching, hiking, boating, horseback riding, and canoeing.
D.
Natural water quality treatment or purification.
E.
Normal agricultural activities, including the planting and harvesting of crops and pasturing of livestock. Such activities shall be subject to best management practices approved by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
F.
Other uses permitted under section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
Sec. 425-050. - Prohibited uses.
A.
Receiving areas for toxic or hazardous waste or other contaminants.
B.
Hazardous or sanitary waste landfills.
