DIVISION 275. - M1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL

Sec. 275-010. - Purpose and intent.
The M1 Light Industrial District is composed primarily of wholesale warehousing, trade shops, and light manufacturing uses, usually located on or near existing community facilities and transportation corridors. The intent of this district is to establish areas of industrial use which would be less objectionable by reasons of dust, odor, noise, congestion, etc., than those of the M2 Heavy Industrial District. Such uses should be encouraged near existing similar uses in accordance with policies outlined in the Newton County Comprehensive Land Use Plan. Provisions are made for individual development under the following conditions:
A.
Such proposed use will not substantially affect or alter nearby property values;
B.
Such proposed use is consistent with goals and policies of the Newton County Comprehensive Land Use Plan;
C.
The site plan for such use provides for adequate ingress and egress of vehicular traffic and will not cause health, safety or unreasonable traffic problems in the area; and
D.
The proposed use is justified based on facts presented to indicate the need for such use, as called for in the Newton County Comprehensive Land Use Plan.
Sec. 275-020. - Principal uses and structures.
Principal uses and structures shall be allowed in the M1 Light Industrial District in accordance with division 505 of this ordinance.
Sec. 275-030. - Accessory uses and structures.
Accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in the M1 Light Industrial District in accordance with section 510-020(E) of this ordinance.
Sec. 275-040. - Conditional uses.
Conditional uses shall be permitted in the M1 Light Industrial District in accordance with division 505 of this ordinance. Conditional uses shall be subject to the additional use standards established in division 510 of this ordinance and the additional standards of [section] 275-010.
Sec. 275-050. - Property development standards.
A.
Minimum lot frontage. Minimum lot frontage on an arterial or collector street as defined in the Newton County Comprehensive Land Use Plan shall be 100 feet.
B.
Minimum setback requirements.
1.
Front:
a.
60 feet on arterial street.
b.
40 feet on collector street.
2.
Side:
a.
Ten feet from property line and no less than 20 feet between buildings under 35 feet in height.
b.
40 feet between buildings over 35 feet in height.
3.
Rear: 15 feet.
C.
Maximum impervious surface. The maximum impervious surface area for property within a designated development node within this district is limited to 75 percent. The maximum impervious surface area for property outside a designated development node within this district is limited to 60 percent.
D.
Minimum floor area. None.
E.
Maximum height of buildings. The maximum height of buildings shall be 75 feet.
F.
Buffer requirements. Where abutting any residential district, screening is required in conformance with section 520-020.
G.
Parking requirements. Off-street parking and loading space shall be provided in accordance with division 515 of this ordinance.
