DIVISION 260. - CN NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL

Sec. 260-010. - Purpose and intent.
The CN Neighborhood Commercial District is primarily composed of service businesses or light retail establishments generally designed to serve nearby residential areas. It is the intent of this district to provide convenient commercial establishments that are primarily used by persons residing in the area. All businesses shall be those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, bright lights, noise, vibration, or traffic congestion, and should, when possible, be conducted within a completely enclosed building. Such uses are encouraged as planned unit developments, but provisions are made for individual development subject to the following conditions:
A.
Such use will not substantially alter nor adversely affect nearby residential properties.
B.
The site plan for such use provides for adequate ingress or egress of vehicular traffic and will not cause safety, health or traffic problems in the area.
C.
The proposal is justified based on facts presented to indicate the need for such use, as called for in the Newton County Comprehensive Land Use Plan.
Sec. 260-020. - Principal uses and structures.
Principal uses and structures shall be allowed in the CN Neighborhood Commercial District in accordance with division 505 of this ordinance.
Sec. 260-030. - Accessory uses and structures.
Accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in the CN Neighborhood Commercial District in accordance with section 510-020(D) of this ordinance.
Sec. 260-040. - Conditional uses.
Conditional uses shall be permitted in the CN Neighborhood Commercial District in accordance with division 505 of this ordinance. Conditional uses shall be subject to the additional use standards established in division 510 of this ordinance and the additional standards of section 260-010.
Sec. 260-050. - Property development standards.
A.
Minimum lot frontage. The minimum lot frontage shall be 100 feet.
B.
Minimum setback requirements.
1.
Front: 25 feet.
2.
Side: Zero feet with party walls; ten feet from property line and no less than 20 feet between buildings.
3.
Rear: 15 feet.
C.
Minimum floor area. None.
D.
Maximum impervious surface coverage. The maximum impervious surface area for property within a designated development node within this district is limited to 75 percent. The maximum impervious surface area for property outside a designated development node within this district is limited to 60 percent.
E.
Maximum height. The maximum height of buildings shall be 35 feet.
F.
Buffer requirements. Where abutting any residential district, screening is required in conformance with section 520-020.
G.
Parking requirements. Off-street parking and loading space shall be provided in accordance with division 515 of this ordinance.
