Chapter 6 - HEALTH[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Licenses and business regulations, Ch. 7; solid waste, Ch. 15; wastewater, Ch. 17.
State Constitution reference— Public health facilities and services, Art. IX, § II, Par. III; intergovernmental contracts for the care, maintenance and hospitalization of the indigent sick and for other services, Art. IX, § III, Par. I.
State Law reference— County boards of health, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 6-1—6-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - HOSPITAL AUTHORITY

Sec. 6-26. - Finding of need.
It is hereby resolved by the authority of the commissioner of roads and revenues of the county that there is need for a hospital authority to function in the county under the provisions of the Hospital Authorities Law (O.C.G.A. § 31-7-70 et seq.).
(Res. of 6-14-49, § 1)
Sec. 6-27. - Created.
There is created and constituted hereby a public body corporate and politic to be known as the Hospital Authority of Gordon County with all rights, powers, privileges and immunities provided for in the Hospital Authorities Law (O.C.G.A. § 31-7-70 et seq.).
(Res. of 6-14-49, § 2)
Sec. 6-28. - Composition.
The hospital authority of the county shall consist of a board of trustees of five (5) members.
(Res. of 6-14-49, § 3; Res. of 4-20-89)
Sec. 6-29. - Residency requirement.
The members of the hospital authority shall be residents of the county.
(Res. of 4-20-89)
Sec. 6-30. - Vacancies.
All vacancies in the hospital authority board of trustees caused by death, removal from the county, resignation or otherwise shall be filled within thirty (30) days after vacancy occurs by election of the remaining members of the board of trustees.
(Res. of 6-14-49, §§ 1A, 5)
Sec. 6-31. - Selection and appointment of members; terms.
(a)
In the process of appointments to fill vacancies on the hospital authority, commissioners nominating and authority members selecting persons to fill vacancies shall give consideration to the choice of a licensed doctor of medicine or a registered nurse to fill such vacancy, unless at the time of such appointment a licensed doctor of medicine or a registered nurse currently serves on the authority.
(b)
Selection of a member to fill a vacancy on the authority shall be in accordance with the following procedure:
(1)
The commissioners shall submit a list of three (3) eligible persons to the remaining members of the authority.
(2)
The authority at its next regular meeting shall either select one (1) of the three (3) persons named in such list or decline to select any of the persons named in the list. If the authority declines to select any of the persons named on the list, it shall so notify the commissioners.
(3)
If the authority declines to select any of the persons named on the list, the commissioners shall submit a second list of three (3) eligible persons, no one (1) of whom was named on the first list, to the authority. The authority, at its next regular meeting after receipt of the second list shall select one (1) of the three (3) persons named in the second list.
(c)
Terms of office of the members shall be staggered as follows: The members shall be divided into three (3) classes with respect to the times for which they shall severally hold office. There shall be one (1) member of the first class who shall hold office until December 31, 1989. There shall be two (2) members of the second class who shall hold office until December 31, 1990. There shall be two (2) members of the third class who shall hold office until December 31, 1991. After the expiration of the initial term of office for members of each class, a member shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years.
(Res. of 6-14-49, §§ 4, 6; Res. of 4-20-89)
Sec. 6-32. - Relinquishing office.
All hospital authority trustees shall hold office until their successors are elected and qualified.
(Res. of 6-14-49, § 7)
Sec. 6-33. - Oath of members.
Each hospital authority trustee shall, before assuming the duties of his office, take an oath to well and faithfully perform the duties of the office.
(Res. of 6-14-49, § 2A)
Secs. 6-34—6-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Food service establishments, O.C.G.A. § 26-2-370 et seq.

Sec. 6-56. - Title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Food Service Regulation" of the county.
(Ord. of 3-6-90(4), § 1-1)
Sec. 6-57. - Adoption of state rules.
The rules and regulations of the state department of human resources entitled and published as Chapter 290-5-14, Food Service, are hereby adopted as written in revised form of September 10, 1986, and as amended.
(Ord. of 3-6-90(4), § 1)
Sec. 6-58. - Enforcement.
(a)
Upon information being made known to the health officer or his designee, he shall cause a citation to be issued requiring the violator to appear before the judge of the magistrate court on a day and time certain, then and there to stand trial for violation of this article.
(b)
Citations issued hereunder shall be pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63 and shall be personally served upon the person accused. Each citation shall state the time and place at which the accused is to appear for trial.
(c)
The county attorney is hereby authorized and directed to act as legal counsel for the health officer in any appeals from magistrate court to the superior court of the county regarding any violation of this article.
(Ord. of 3-6-90(4), § 1-4)
Sec. 6-59. - Penalty.
(a)
Any person violating the terms of this article or rules and regulations promulgated pursuant hereto shall be punished as provided in section 1-7.
(b)
In addition to all other provisions of this article, any violation of this article is hereby deemed to be a continuing hazard and may be abated by an application for injunction in the superior court of the county or other court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. of 3-6-90(4), § 1-5)
Secs. 6-60—6-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - TOURIST COURTS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Tourist courts, O.C.G.A. § 31-28-1 et seq.

Sec. 6-81. - Title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Tourist Court Regulation" of the county.
(Ord. of 3-6-90(2), § 1.1)
Sec. 6-82. - Adoption of state rules.
The rules and regulations of the state department of human resources entitled and published as Chapter 290-5-18, Tourist Courts, are hereby adopted as written in revised form of April 27, 1984, and as amended.
(Ord. of 3-6-90(2), § 1)
Sec. 6-83. - Enforcement.
(a)
Upon information being made known to the health officer or his designee, he shall cause a citation to be issued requiring the violator to appear before the judge of the magistrate court on a day and time certain, then and there to stand trial for violation of this article.
(b)
Citations issued hereunder shall be pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63 and shall be personally served upon the person accused. Each citation shall state the time and place at which the accused is to appear for trial.
(c)
The county attorney is hereby authorized and directed to act as legal counsel for the health officer in any appeals from the magistrate court to the superior court of the county regarding any violation of this article.
(Ord. of 3-6-90(2), § 1-4)
Sec. 6-84. - Penalty.
(a)
Any person convicted of violating the terms of this article or rules and regulations promulgated pursuant hereto shall be punished as provided in section 1-7.
(b)
In addition to all other provisions of this article, any violation of this article is hereby deemed to be a continuing hazard and may be abated by an application for injunction in the superior court of the county or other court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. of 3-6-90(2), § 1-5)
Secs. 6-85—6-105. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - HEALTH HAZARDS

Sec. 6-106. - Title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Health Hazard Ordinance" of the county.
(Ord. of 3-6-90(1), § 1-1)
Sec. 6-107. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Health hazard means whatever is dangerous or detrimental to human life or health and whatever renders or tends to render soil, air, water or food impure or unwholesome.
Health officer means the director of health of the county or his authorized representative.
(Ord. of 3-6-90(1), § 1-3)
Sec. 6-108. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to define specific types of health hazards in order to:
(1)
Protect residents from annoyance and health hazards of certain aggravating circumstances;
(2)
Delineate residents' responsibilities and prohibited acts in the community.
(Ord. of 3-6-90(1), § 1-2)
Sec. 6-109. - Scope.
Nothing in this article shall be interpreted or applied so as to create any power or duty in conflict with the preemptive effect of any federal or state law.
(Ord. of 3-6-90(1), § 1-4)
Sec. 6-110. - Specific hazards enumerated.
The following are specifically declared to be health hazards:
(1)
Toilets, other sanitary facilities, plumbing or sewers not in compliance with the rules and regulations of the county board of health or the state department of human resources.
(2)
Conditions conducive to the excessive breeding of rodents, flies, mosquitoes or other insects and vermin in relation to surrounding conditions as determined by the health officer.
(3)
Pollution of the air by gases, vapors, fumes, mists, dust or smoke in quantities sufficient to be disagreeable, discomforting or detrimental to health or well-being in relation to the conditions of the surrounding area, as determined by the health officer.
(4)
Trash, garbage, refuse or any foul, decaying or putrescent material kept in such quantities or used in such a manner or place as to be or become offensive, objectionable or detrimental to health or well-being.
(5)
Keeping of horses, mules, asses, cows, sheep, goats, hogs, dogs, rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters, chickens, turkeys, geese, ducks, pigeons or similar fowl or animals except under the following conditions:
a.
Any housing or enclosures used by such animals or fowl shall be well drained, free from accumulations of animal excrement and objectionable odors, and otherwise clean and sanitary. Animal excrement shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the health officer.
b.
Such animals or fowl shall be kept at the following minimum distances from any occupied building except the dwelling unit of the owner:
EXPAND
Animals Distance
(feet)
  Horses, mules, asses or cows .....75
Sheep or goats .....75
Hogs .....900
Dogs .....25
Rabbits, guinea pigs or hamsters .....25
Chickens, turkeys, geese, ducks, pigeons or similar fowl .....25
c.
All such animals or fowl, except dogs in areas where confinement of dogs under the rabies control regulations does not apply, shall be kept in adequate enclosures or tethered.
d.
Diseased animals or fowl which might infect healthy animals or cause a menace to the public health shall be isolated or destroyed as the health officer deems necessary.
e.
In the case of bona fide licensed pet shops, veterinary hospitals, stockyards, poultry houses and similar commercial establishments the health officer may modify these requirements where undue hardship would result from their strict enforcement.
f.
Bona fide commercial agricultural enterprises are hereby exempt from the requirement of subsections (5)a., c. and d.
(Ord. of 3-6-90(1), § 1-5)
Cross reference— Licenses and business regulations, Ch. 7; solid waste, Ch. 15.
Sec. 6-111. - Creating, maintaining, etc., hazard prohibited.
No person shall create, maintain, support, aid or continue a health hazard.
(Ord. of 3-6-90(1), § 1-6)
Sec. 6-112. - Enforcement.
(a)
Upon information being made known to the health officer that any violation of this article is occurring, he shall cause a citation to be issued requiring the violator to appear before the judge of the magistrate court on a day and time certain, then and there to stand trial for violation of this article.
(b)
Citations issued hereunder shall be pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63, and shall be personally served upon the person accused. Each citation shall state the time and place at which the accused is to appear for trial.
(c)
The county attorney is hereby authorized and directed to act as counsel for the health officer in any appeals from the magistrate court to the superior court regarding any violation of this article.
(Ord. of 3-6-90(1), § 1-9)
Sec. 6-113. - Penalty.
(a)
Any person convicted of violating the terms of this article or rules and regulations promulgated pursuant hereto shall be punished as provided in section 1-7.
(b)
In addition to all other provisions of this article, any violation of this article is hereby deemed to be a continuing hazard and may be abated by an application for injunction in the superior court of the county or other court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. of 3-6-90(1), § 1-10)
Secs. 6-114—6-150. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - SMOKING PROHIBITIONS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Personnel, Ch. 10.

Sec. 6-151. - Findings.
(a)
The United States Surgeon General has stated that smoking of cigarettes and the use of tobacco products is the leading cause of premature death and disability in the United States of America. Medical evidence confirms that smoking of tobacco can be hazardous to the health of the smoker and nonsmoker. Medical research has confirmed that nonsmokers with chronic heart or lung disease can experience distress when exposed to sufficient concentrations of secondhand smoke. Many allergic individuals and healthy nonsmokers report discomfort when exposed to secondhand smoke. Recent medical studies provide sufficient evidence that long-term exposure to involuntary smoking may increase a nonsmoker's risk of developing serious lung disease.
(b)
The board of commissioners finds that it is in the best interest of the health, welfare and safety of the county and its citizens:
(1)
To provide a healthy, comfortable and productive working environment for its employees in the county's public buildings and facilities serving the public as well as in motor vehicles;
(2)
To protect nonsmokers;
(3)
To help employees to adjust to restrictions on smoking and the use of tobacco products; and
(4)
To prohibit smoking of cigarettes and the use of other tobacco products in any county-owned or leased enclosed building space as well as in motor vehicle(s) occupied by at least one (1) nonsmoker.
(Ord. of 4-26-94, § 1)
Sec. 6-152. - Prohibitions.
From the effective date of this article smoking of cigarettes or the use of other tobacco products by whatever name known or called now or in the future is prohibited in any enclosed building space as well as in any motor vehicle occupied by at least one (1) nonsmoker owned or leased by the county and any of its departments, agencies, boards, authorities and commissions. For purposes of this section, the term "nonsmoker" shall mean any individual who declares that he/she does not smoke cigarettes or other tobacco products or has discontinued the smoking of cigarettes or other tobacco products.
(Ord. of 4-26-94, § 2)
Sec. 6-153. - Conflict with other regulations.
The provision of section 6-152 will in no instance conflict with any existing or future regulation(s) established for fire, health or safety reasons.
(Ord. of 4-26-94, § 3)
Sec. 6-154. - Implementation.
The board of commissioners is authorized and directed to promulgate and disseminate to all employees of the county the findings contained in this article and to provide for its implementation as follows:
(1)
All departments, agencies, authorities, boards, commissions and elected officers will give this article wide dissemination to all employees;
(2)
All prospective new county employees will be informed of this no-smoking and no-use of tobacco products policy before they are hired; and
(3)
Signs will be placed in all appropriate spaces and county buildings indicating that smoking and the use of tobacco products are not allowed, with such signs to be uniform in language and color.
(Ord. of 4-26-94, § 4)
Sec. 6-155. - Employee responsibility.
All employees of the county share in the responsibility for adhering to and enforcing this policy.
(Ord. of 4-26-94, § 5)
Sec. 6-156. - Violations; penalties.
(a)
(1)    ;hg;Any violations of section 6-152 or conflict concerning its implementation should be brought to the attention of appropriate supervisory personnel. In all cases the right of a nonsmoker to protect his or her health and comfort will take precedence over an employee's or nonemployee's desire to smoke or use tobacco products.
(2)
Violations of this article by an employee may be subject to appropriate disciplinary action under the provisions of the county personnel ordinance [Chapter 10 of this Code], now in effect or as amended hereinafter.
(b)
Any nonemployee of the county who continues to violate the provisions of section 6-152 after receiving an oral request to cease smoking of the cigarette or use of tobacco material from authorized personnel with offices located in the enclosed building or having responsibility for the motor vehicle shall be subject to citation to the magistrate court of the county and upon adjudication of guilt may be fined not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per violation. The board of commissioners in implementing the provisions of this article shall designate authorized personnel in each department to make such oral requests as provided in this subsection.
(Ord. of 4-26-94, § 6)
Secs. 6-157—6-180. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - PRODUCTS USED IN THE PREPARATION OF METHAMPHETAMINE

Sec. 6-181. - Definitions.
Product used in the preparation of methamphetamine: Any compound, mixture, preparation or drug product containing any detectable quantity of ephedrine, pseudoephedrine or phenylpropanolamine, or any of their salts, isomers or salts of isomers, alone or in a mixture.
(Ord. of 12-7-04, § 1)
Sec. 6-182. - Display of products prohibited.
Products used in the preparation of methamphetamine may not be openly displayed for sale in the unincorporated area of the county, but must be maintained behind the counter and distributed for sale only by the pharmacist, pharmacy technician, sales clerk or other retail distributor employee.
(Ord. of 12-7-04, § 2)
Sec. 6-183. - Requirements for purchase of products.
Products used in the preparation of methamphetamine may not be dispensed, sold or distributed in the unincorporated area of the county without requiring the individual purchasing, receiving or otherwise acquiring such compound, mixture, preparation or drug product to produce a photo identification showing their date of birth and sign a written log or receipt showing their signature and printed name, the date of the transaction, the type and amount of product purchased.
The log or receipt must be maintained by the retailer or other person dispensing, selling or distributing the drug used in preparation of methamphetamine for a period of three (3) years.
The log shall contain at a minimum the following information:
(1)
The specific quantity of the products used in the preparation of methamphetamine purchased;
(2)
Signature of the purchaser;
(3)
The name and residential or mailing address of the purchaser (other than a post office box);
(4)
The number of the purchaser's motor vehicle operator's license or other proper identification used at the time of the purchase;
(5)
The date of such purchase; and
(6)
The signature of an employee of the retail establishment as witness to the purchase and identification of the purchaser.
In addition, the retailer or other person dispensing, selling or distributing the drug used in the preparation of methamphetamine shall also include in the log a monthly total listing the amount of such compound, mixture, preparation or drug product which was purchased for sale in their establishment.
(Ord. of 12-7-04, § 3)
Sec. 6-184. - Violations and enforcement.
(a)
Violations of this article shall be considered a misdemeanor punished in accordance with O.C.G.A. §§ 15-10-60 et seq. and 36-1-20 and the Gordon County Code of Ordinances.
(b)
The provisions of this article shall be enforced by the Calhoun/Gordon County Drug Task Force, the Gordon County Sheriff's Office, the Gordon County Ordinance Officer, and any other designated party.
(Ord. of 12-7-04, § 4)
