ARTICLE IV. - RULES OF PROCEDURE

Sec. 2-101. - Regular meetings.
modified
The board shall hold regular meetings on the first and third Tuesday of each month. Notification of the regular meeting location and time shall comply with the Georgia Open Meetings Act O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1.
(Ord. of 10-3-95, § 1.10; Ord. of 7-20-10, § A; Ord. of 1-15-13, § A; Ord. of 4-18-2023, § A )
Sec. 2-102. - Special meetings.
Special meetings may be held at the call of the chairman of the board of commissioners, known as "the chairman," or by any three (3) commissioners. Any member of the board who wishes to call a special meeting can contact the chairman, so the meeting can be called by the chairman. Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all other members personally, or by telephone, at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the meeting (except emergency meetings). Such notice shall not be required if all board members are present when the special meeting is called. Such notice of any special meeting may be waived by a commissioner in writing before or after such a meeting, and attendance at the meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice on any business transacted by the board in such commissioner's presence. Except where waiver by all members is effected by their presence or in writing, only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting.
(Ord. of 10-3-95, § 1.12)
Sec. 2-103. - Notice of special meetings.
modified
Notice of all special meetings (except emergency meetings) shall be posted on the bulletin board in the county courthouse and the place of the meeting if such meeting is not at the regular meeting place, at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the time of such special meeting. Such notice shall state the time, place and purpose of the special meeting and shall be posted by the clerk of the board of commissioners, known as "the clerk." The clerk shall also notify the county's legal organ. Upon written request from any local broadcast or print media outlet, a copy of the meeting's agenda shall be provided by facsimile, e-mail, or mail through a self-addressed, stamped envelope provided by the requestor.
(Ord. of 10-3-95, § 1.13; Ord. of 4-18-2023, § B )
Sec. 2-104. - Emergency meetings.
modified
To meet a public emergency the board may convene, on call of the chairman or any three (3) commissioners, an emergency meeting. Notice of such an emergency meeting to all board members shall be received by telephone. The clerk shall notify the county's legal organ. Such notice shall also include, upon written request within the previous calendar year from any local broadcast or print media outlet whose place of business and physical facilities are located in the county, notice by telephone, facsimile, or e-mail to that requesting media outlet.
(Ord. of 10-3-95, § 1.14; Ord. of 4-18-2023, § C )
Sec. 2-105. - Public meetings.
All meetings of the board shall be public to the extent required by general state law (O.C.G.A. 50-14-1 et seq. and O.C.G.A. 50-18-70 et seq.).
(Ord. of 10-3-95, § 1.15)
Sec. 2-106. - Rules of procedure.
(a)
Any meeting of the board shall be presided over by the chairman, if present, or the vice-chairman, if the chairman is not present or is otherwise disqualified to preside. A quorum shall exist when any three (3) board members are present at a meeting, and business may be acted on. But if an item of business is voted on, and the vote is two (2) to one (1), that particular business item will have to be addressed when the entire board is in session.
(b)
No board member should abstain from a vote unless he has a definite conflict of interest with that particular business item.
(c)
All motions are to be concise, clear, and directly pertaining to the business at hand.
(d)
No motion may be made on a business item unless that particular item of business is on the agenda to be addressed or by unanimous consent of the members of the board present.
(e)
Unless a motion receives a second, the motion is dead.
(f)
The chairman has the option to vote on any motion where he feels that a clarification of his position is necessary. If there is a tie vote the chairman must vote.
(g)
No motion can be made until the chairman calls for a motion; the chairman will decide when discussion on a business item should be closed, unless by majority vote the board closes debate.
(h)
Follow Robert's Rules of Order.
(i)
All members of the board and the members of the audience on the agenda must be recognized by the chairman before they can address the board. Those from the audience who are recognized should state their names so that accurate minutes can be recorded.
(j)
The clerk of the board or the board's designee shall keep minutes of all proceedings to the extent required by general state law. Voting on all questions, ordinances or resolutions shall be taken by a show of hands and the ayes and nays shall be recorded in the minutes. The affirmative vote of a majority of the board shall be required for the passage of any question, ordinance or resolution.
(Ord. of 10-3-95, §§ 2.10—2.19; Mo. of 10-3-95)
Sec. 2-107. - Order of business.
(a)
For each regular meeting the order of business shall be as follows:
(1)
Call to order;
(2)
Invocation;
(3)
Welcome audience;
(4)
Commissioners' comments;
(5)
Approval of minutes of previous meetings;
(6)
Consideration of old business;
(7)
Consideration of new business;
(8)
Administrator's report;
(9)
Adjournment.
(b)
The order of business may be altered by the chairman at his discretion in order to allow proper consideration and debate of any matter on the agenda. The reading of the minutes of prior meetings may be waived by the unanimous consent of all board members.
(Ord. of 10-3-95, §§ 3.10, 3.11)
Sec. 2-108. - Agenda.
(a)
For all regular and special meetings the county administrator shall prepare an agenda. The agenda shall reflect the order of business as stated in section 2-107 above.
(b)
Any commissioner or citizen may place an item of business on the agenda for consideration, provided the item of business is brought to the attention of the county administrator or county clerk by 4:00 p.m. on the Thursday prior to the regular meeting on Tuesday.
(c)
The administrator shall have a completed agenda with all pertinent documents ready for the board by 5:00 p.m. on Friday prior to the regular meeting on Tuesday.
(Ord. of 10-3-95, §§ 4.10—4.12)
Sec. 2-109. - Public participation.
The general public is encouraged to attend the meetings of the board of commissioners of the county. A public group or private citizen desiring to have the board consider a matter may appear on the agenda by contacting the administrator or clerk and advising the same that he/she wishes to appear before the board. Public groups are encouraged to appoint or select a spokesperson to present the matter in which they are interested. All presentations to the board shall:
(1)
Be made from the lectern.
(2)
Begin by the speaker giving his or her full name and address.
(3)
Be limited to no more than four (4) minutes, except by permission of a majority of the board.
(4)
Not engage in debate with members of the board or require answers from individual members of the board.
(5)
Not make derogatory comment about any individual member of the board.
(6)
Be of a subject matter pending before the board or a matter the speaker wishes for the board to consider, not on a matter upon which the board has acted.
(7)
Be presented in a manner to preserve the decorum of the meeting.
(8)
A speaker violating any of the above procedures shall forfeit his or her remaining time.
(Ord. of 10-3-95, § 5.10)
Sec. 2-110. - Ordinance form; procedure; notice; reading.
Unless otherwise required by general state law, all county ordinances shall be introduced and voted upon as follows:
(1)
Each proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption.
(2)
An ordinance may be introduced by any board member. Before an ordinance can be voted on, it should be read twice and posted at the county courthouse during the period between two (2) readings. The first reading should be of the entire ordinance and the second reading, which must take place no sooner than two (2) weeks after the first reading, may be by title only.
(3)
Upon passage, all ordinances shall be signed by the chairman, or vice-chairman if presiding, and the county clerk and immediately transmitted to be codified.
(4)
Failure to comply with the technical requirements of this section shall not invalidate an ordinance if the intention of the governing authority that the ordinance be effective is evident.
(Ord. of 10-3-95, § 6.10)
Sec. 2-111. - Resolutions and proclamations.
Resolutions and proclamations may be introduced and adopted at any special or regular meeting of the board.
(Ord. of 10-3-95, § 7.10)
Sec. 2-112. - Temporary suspension of rules.
By unanimous consent of the board of commissioners, any or all of the above rules may be temporarily suspended when "justice" and "fair play" dictate such suspension. Such suspension shall not affect the future validity or enforceability of such rules.
(Ord. of 10-3-95, § 8.10)
Sec. 2-113. - Robert's Rules of Order.
Any procedure of the board of commissioners not governed by the above rules shall be governed by "Robert's Rules of Order."
(Ord. of 10-3-95, § 9.10)
Secs. 2-114—2-119. - Reserved.
