Chapter 15 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, Ch. 2; health, Ch. 6; licenses and business regulations, Ch. 7; wastewater, Ch. 17; specific health hazards, § 6-110.
State Constitution reference— Power of county to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Art. IX, § II, Par. III.
State Law reference— Waste management, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-1 et seq.; state grants for solid waste handling systems, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-38; effect of law on county powers, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-39; transporting refuse across county boundary for dumping without permission, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; litter control, O.C.G.A. §§ 16-7-40 et seq., 36-1-20.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 15-1—15-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PERMIT; DISPOSAL GENERALLY

Sec. 15-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Aquifer means a water-bearing stratum of permeable rock, sand or gravel.
Baling means a volume reduction technique whereby solid waste is compressed into bales.
Certificate means a document issued by a college or university of the state university system or other organization approved by the director, stating that the operator has met the requirements of the board for the specified operator classification of the certification program.
Collector means the person or persons as defined herein who, under agreements, verbal or written, with or without compensation does the work of collecting and/or transporting solid waste from industries, offices, retail outlets, businesses, institutions and/or similar locations, or from residential dwellings; provided, however, that this definition shall not include an individual collecting and/or transporting waste from his own single-family dwelling unit.
Commercial hauler or hauler means a collector or any person engaged in any business or enterprise activity where solid waste is generated in the course of a business or enterprise, transported in the course of a business or enterprise, or disposed of as a result of a business or enterprise; but shall not mean a private resident acting solely on his own behalf and that of his primary residence.
Commercial waste means all types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses, and other nonmanufacturing activities or commercial enterprises, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
Composting means the controlled biological decomposition of organic solid waste.
Construction/demolition waste means the waste building materials and rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair and demolition operations on pavements, houses, commercial buildings and other structures. Such wastes include, but are not limited to wood, bricks, metal, concrete, wallboard, paper or cardboard.
County means Gordon County, Georgia, or the Gordon County Board of Commissioners, as the context requires.
Director means the director of the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources.
Disposal facility means any facility or location where any treatment, utilization, processing or deposition of solid waste occurs.
Disposal operation means the performance of solid waste disposal, which includes administration, personnel, land equipment, design and other elements necessary or used in the work of solid waste disposal.
Disposal site means the location where the final deposition of solid waste occurs.
Division means the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources.
Garbage means food waste including waste accumulations of animal or vegetable matter used or intended for use as food, or that attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables.
Hazardous waste means any solid waste which has been defined a hazardous waste in regulations promulgated by the Board of Natural Resources, Chapter 391-3-11.
Incineration means a controlled process by which solid, liquid and gaseous combustible wastes are burned and changed into gases and a residue produced which is relatively free of combustible materials.
Incinerator means all devices intended or used for the reduction or destruction of solid, liquid or gaseous waste by burning.
Industrial waste means solid waste generated by manufacturing or industrial processes that is not a hazardous waste under regulations promulgated by the Board of Natural Resources, Chapter 391-3-11.
Inert waste landfill means a disposal site accepting only wastes that will not or are not likely to cause production of leachate of environmental concern. Such wastes are limited to dirt and dirt-like products, concrete, rock, bricks, yard trimmings, stumps, limbs and leaves. This definition excludes industrial and demolition waste.
Infectious waste means all biomedical waste as defined in section .15(a) of the rules of the division.
Leachate means a liquid that has passed through or emerged from solid waste and contains soluble, suspended or miscible materials removed from such wastes.
Leachate collection system means a system at a sanitary landfill for collecting the leachate which may percolate through the wastes and into the soil surrounding the landfill.
Liner means a continuous layer of natural or manmade materials, beneath or on the sides of a disposal site or disposal site cell which restricts the downward or lateral escape of solid waste, solid waste constituents or leachate.
Liquid waste means any waste material that is determined to contain free liquids as defined by Method 9095 (Paints Filter Liquids Test), as described in Test Methods of Evaluation of Solid Wastes, Physical/Chemical Methods (EPA Pub. No. SW-846).
Mixed loads means any commercial/industrial and residential mix within the same container.
Nuisance means anything which meets that definition of the term as defined by O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 and which occurs during or as the result of the handling or disposing of solid waste.
Open dump means a disposal site at which solid waste from one (1) or more sources is consolidated and left to decompose, burn or to otherwise create a threat to human health or the environment.
Operator means the person having direct supervision of daily field operation of a disposal site to ensure that the site operates in compliance with the permit.
Person means the State of Georgia or any other state or any agency or institution thereof, and any municipality, political subdivision, public or private corporation, special district empowered to engage in solid waste management activities, individual, partnership, association or other entity in Georgia or any other state. This term also includes any officer or governing or managing body of any municipality, political subdivision, special district empowered in solid waste activities, or public or private corporation in Georgia or any other state. This term also includes employees, departments and agencies of the federal government.
Processing operation means any method, system or other treatment designed to change the physical form or chemical content of solid waste and includes all aspects of its management (administration, personnel, land, equipment, buildings and other elements).
Putrescible wastes means wastes that are capable of being quickly decomposed by microorganisms. Examples of putrescible wastes include but are not necessarily limited to kitchen wastes, animal manure, offal, hatchery and poultry processing plant wastes, and garbage.
Pyrolysis means the chemical decomposition of a material by heat in the absence of oxygen.
Reclamation means a controlled method of sorting and storing material from solid wastes for future use in accordance with a procedure approved by the division.
Recycling means any process by which reclaimed materials or solid waste are collected, separated or processed and reused or returned to use in the form of raw materials or products.
Residential waste means household waste and any waste derived from the residential occupancy of single-family dwelling units.
Rubbish means waste paper, cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture, appliances, metals, cans, glass, crockery, dunnage and/or similar materials.
Rules for scrap tire management means those rules promulgated by and amended by the state department of natural resources, environmental protection division and contained in Chapter 391-3-4-.19 of the Rules for Solid Waste Management, amended 1993.
Sanitary landfill means a disposal site where putrescible solid wastes are disposed of by means of placing an earth cover thereon.
Sanitary landfilling means an engineered method of disposing of putrescible solid wastes on land by spreading them in thin layers, compacting them to the smallest practical volume, placing an earth cover thereon and such other measures as are necessary to protect human health and the environment.
Scavenge means the uncontrolled picking of discarded solid waste materials.
Shredding means the process by which solid waste is cut or torn into small pieces for final disposal or further processing.
Significant groundwater recharge areas means any area as designated on Hydrologic Atlas, No. 18, Maps of the Most Significant Groundwater Recharge Areas of Georgia, 1989, as published by the Georgia Geologic Survey, environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources.
Solid waste means putrescible and nonputrescible wastes, except water-carried body waste and materials destined for recycling, and shall include garbage, rubbish (paper, cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture and appliances, etc.), refuse, dead animals, sewage sludge, animal manures, industrial wastes (waste materials generated in industrial operations), residue from incineration, food processing wastes, demolition wastes, abandoned automobiles, dredging wastes, construction wastes, and any other waste material in a solid or semisolid state not otherwise defined in this article.
Solid waste handling means the storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing or disposal of solid wastes, or any combination thereof.
Solid waste handling facility means any location where any storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing or disposal of solid waste, or any combination thereof, occurs.
Solid waste handling permit means written authorization granted to a person by the board of commissioners to engage in solid waste handling.
Solid Waste Management Act or the Act, wherever referred to in this chapter, means O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.
Special solid waste means any solid waste not otherwise regulated under the Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-60 et seq., and regulations promulgated thereunder or originating or produced from or by a source or generator not subject to regulation under O.C.G.A. § 12-8-27(g).
Transfer station means a facility used to transfer solid waste from one transportation vehicle to another for transportation to a disposal site or processing operation.
(Ord. of 5-1-90, § III; Ord. of 5-14-96)
Sec. 15-27. - Intent, scope.
(a)
It is the intention of the board of commissioners in enacting this article to provide for disposal of solid waste in the incorporated and unincorporated area of the county; to provide for the uniform prohibition throughout the county of any and all littering on public or private property, and to curb thereby the desecration of the beauty of the county which is harmful to the health, welfare and safety of its citizens.
(b)
As of the effective date of this article and/or any amendments hereto, only commercial haulers who have properly registered with the county Redbone Ridges Landfill shall be permitted to discharge waste.
(Ord. of 5-1-90, § I; Ord. of 5-14-96)
Sec. 15-28. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is as follows:
(1)
To provide environmentally sound, cost-efficient refuse disposal in accordance with the state department of natural resources, environmental protection division rules and regulations (Solid Waste Management Act, Chapter 391-3-4) and any amendments or changes to the rules and regulations thereto.
(2)
To provide safe operation of the facilities;
(3)
To secure data for waste disposal planning.
(Ord. of 5-1-90, § II; Ord. of 5-14-96)
Sec. 15-29. - Registration.
The county shall register all commercial haulers seeking to utilize county landfill operations for the disposal of solid waste.
(Ord. of 5-1-90, § IV; Ord. of 5-14-96)
Sec. 15-30. - Registration procedures.
(a)
Who must register. All persons or haulers of commercial, residential or industrial solid waste (as defined by the rules and regulations of the EPD), who seek to dispose of that solid waste in the county landfill facilities, shall register. An individual transporting domestic or household waste from his residence need not register.
(b)
Registration fees. Annual registration fees shall cost twenty-five dollars ($25.00) or as may annually be determined by the board of commissioners.
(c)
Vehicles qualifying for registration. A qualifying vehicle shall have the business name, business address and/or telephone number permanently affixed to each side of the vehicle in letters and numbers at least three (3) inches in height. When roll-offs are used, the name of the company must appear on each roll-off container. A regularly used business logo may also be displayed. No other names or numbers not required by law shall be displayed. To qualify, a vehicle must be owned or leased by the applicant.
(d)
Application for registration. A person desiring to register to deliver solid waste to the county landfill must submit a completed application for registration to the person designated to process applications and issue registrations. Such applications shall contain the following information:
(1)
The name, address and telephone number of the owner of the collection vehicle who is applying for the registration.
(2)
The listing of all collection vehicles under the registration, which listing shall contain the following information for each vehicle:
a.
The state motor vehicle registration number;
b.
Description of the chassis by year and manufacturer, with the number of wheels;
c.
Description of the body by year and manufacturer;
d.
Evidence of the insurance coverage as required by the board of commissioners.
(3)
A written listing of the area or areas served by the vehicles listed in the registration application. Applicant is obligated to notify of additions or deletions to the list of areas served.
(4)
Additional data, information, certification, etc., as deemed necessary in order to verify the accuracy of information contained in the application forms and attendant documents.
(Ord. of 5-1-90, § V; Ord. of 5-14-96)
Sec. 15-31. - Hauler vehicle construction and maintenance.
Solid waste disposal vehicles utilized by haulers of commercial, residential or industrial waste must meet the following minimum requirements both prior to and following approval of registration:
(1)
The collection vehicle body shall be capable of being readily emptied.
(2)
The collection vehicle shall be kept in a sanitary condition.
(3)
The collection vehicle must provide for a means of loading only at the top, side or rear, depending upon the design of the enclosed body.
(4)
The collection vehicle must be so equipped that all loading openings on the bodies have adequately tightly fitting doors or covers with latch, clamps or other methods to keep them closed and rubber or other suitable gasket to render them leakproof, spillproof, dust proof and odor proof to the maximum extent practicable.
(5)
Roll-off boxes must be of welded construction and doors must be tightly fitted so as to render them leakproof and spillproof. Provisions need to be made to facilitate application of tightly fitting tarpaulin covers.
(6)
All unloading doors must be equipped with chains to keep them securely fastened in an open position when unloading.
(7)
The collection vehicle shall be equipped with heavy duty front hooks, loops or shackles, good and serviceable tires and other accessories as necessary for operation and/or navigation in or about the landfill facility.
(8)
Each collection vehicle used or proposed for use by an applicant, as well as the contents of any collection vehicle shall be subject at all times to inspection by county landfill personnel and/or the county ordinance officer.
(Ord. of 5-1-90, § VI; Ord. of 5-14-96)
Sec. 15-32. - Transporting and discharging solid waste.
Each registrant under this article shall comply with the following requirements of transporting and/or delivering solid waste:
(1)
Solid waste shall be suitably enclosed or covered to prevent littering and spillage of solid waste or fluids or infiltration of rainwater. Tarps must be used to cover compactor box openings, roll-off tops, etc. Tarpaulins must be kept in good repair at all times.
(2)
Any spillage of solid waste on the roads leading to the landfill or in the landfill prior to or following actual disposal is the responsibility of the hauler and shall be immediately cleaned and removed by the hauler. Any and all costs incurred by the county by reason of any spillage shall be immediately remitted to the county by the responsible registrant. This provision is in addition to any other penalty authorized elsewhere in this chapter or any other ordinance or by state law.
(Ord. of 5-1-90, § VII; Ord. of 5-14-96)
Sec. 15-33. - Industrial process solid waste/sludge.
(a)
Any person causing or allowing industrial process solid waste or latex sludge to be delivered to a county landfill for disposal shall guarantee that the originator of the waste has submitted a material safety data sheet to the county landfill department and has received approval from both the county and the state environmental protection division. Copies of the waste acceptance policy can be obtained at the county landfill department.
(b)
If there are any risks or additional costs involved in accepting any industrial process solid waste, the county may impose an industrial process solid waste disposal surcharge to compensate the county for such risks and additional cost including administrative expenses and overhead. The following factors will be considered in determining the amount of such industrial process solid waste surcharge:
(1)
Volume of waste for disposal;
(2)
Quality of waste (moisture, etc.);
(3)
Degree of risk associated with such disposal;
(4)
Additional handling, processing and disposal cost;
(5)
Additional administrative expense and overhead;
(6)
Additional environmental protection controls including monitoring.
The industrial process solid waste surcharge shall be set by the board of commissioners without notice and public hearing thereon and may vary on a case-by-case basis.
(c)
Any person causing or allowing industrial process solid waste to be delivered to a solid waste facility operated by or on behalf of the county shall be deemed to have agreed to indemnify and hold harmless the county for any costs reasonably incurred to protect against or reduce any risks resulting therefrom.
(Ord. of 5-1-90, § VIII)
Sec. 15-34. - Waste acceptance policy and regulations.
(a)
Only residential, commercial and industrial waste generated in the county, those contiguous counties so designated by the board of commissioners, or through contracts negotiated and executed by the board of commissioners shall be allowed to be disposed of in the county landfill, and a tipping fee, as from time to time may be determined by the board of commissioners, may be charged.
(b)
It is the intention of the county to accept only sludge wastes which have been approved by the state environmental protection division and deemed appropriate by the county.
(c)
No hazardous waste will be accepted. No person shall deposit or attempt to deposit hazardous waste on county landfill property. No material other than residential, commercial and industrial waste that has been approved by the state environmental protection division and the county may be deposited at the landfill.
(d)
No biomedical waste, as defined by the regulations of the state environmental protection division (391-3-4-15) will be accepted at any county landfill. No person shall deposit or attempt to deposit such waste on county landfill property.
(e)
Reserved.
(f)
No waste originating outside the limits of the county shall be accepted at any county compactor site, nor shall any person deposit or attempt to deposit solid waste originating outside the limits of the county at any county compactor site, nor shall commercial or industrial waste be accepted or deposited at any county compactor site.
(g)
Construction and demolition waste which originates in the county will be accepted if it does not contain any industrial waste components.
(Ord. of 5-1-90, § IX; Ord. of 5-14-96)
Sec. 15-35. - Fee schedule.
The board of commissioners shall from time to time publish a fee schedule to be charged for depositing waste at a county landfill. Such schedules when published and posted at the county administrator's office and at a landfill site shall become part of this article as if quoted verbatim herein.
(Ord. of 5-1-90, § X)
Sec. 15-36. - Facility rules for haulers.
(a)
Liability of the county. All persons proceed onto the landfill at their own risk. The county shall not be liable for errors or omissions of its contractors, persons using the solid waste facility, or other third persons in or about the solid waste facility.
(b)
Reservation of rights.
(1)
Haulers' dumping privileges are limited to residential, industrial and commercial waste. The county reserves the right to inspect any load coming into the landfill. The dumping of any material other than residential, commercial or industrial waste or other than that described as manifest may result in a permanent revocation of dumping privileges. Liquid waste, biomedical waste and hazardous waste are specifically prohibited. Sludge waste may, in the discretion of the county, be allowed only if the hauler has submitted an application to the state environmental protection division and has received approval by the state environmental protection division for the sludge waste.
(2)
If the county determines that any material or waste has been deposited which is in violation of any law, ordinance or the county's rules and regulations, the county may require the hauler to remove such waste or, in the alternative, the county may remove it and charge hauler with the expense of removing the unauthorized waste. The hauler will remain responsible for disposal of such waste in an approved facility.
(3)
The county has the right to require the hauler to file a manifest for each load of any type of solid waste deposited at the landfill showing the source of all solid waste and a statement signed by the hauler and/or the generator of the solid waste certifying the solid waste is residential, industrial or commercial and describing the contents and/or origin thereof.
(c)
Obedience to general rules. In all specifics, haulers and their agents and/or employees must abide by the terms of this article and rules promulgated pursuant hereto and posted at landfill and/or compactor sites. It is the duty and responsibility of the haulers and other persons using the county landfill to familiarize themselves with and to obey the rules of the facility as such rules may be changed or new rules adopted and posted on the premises.
(Ord. of 5-1-90, § XI)
Sec. 15-37. - Enforcement.
The county ordinance officer is authorized, empowered and directed to enforce compliance with all provisions of this article, the Solid Waste Management Act, and any applicable rules and regulations promulgated by and amended by the state department of natural resources, environmental protection division, and specifically including the rules for scrap tire management as if quoted verbatim herein. Any person who violates this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished in accordance with the provisions set forth in section 15-62 of this Code.
(Ord. of 5-14-96)
Secs. 15-38—15-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - LITTER CONTROL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Roads and highways, Ch. 12; county ordinance officer, § 2-4.

Sec. 15-61. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
County means the unincorporated areas of Gordon County, Georgia.
Litter means all sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, waste material, tin cans, refuse, garbage, trash, debris, dead animals, or discarded materials of every kind and description.
Public or private property means the right-of-way of any road or highway; any body of water or watercourse or the shores or beaches thereof; any park, playground, building, refuge or conservation or recreation area; and residential or farm properties, timberlands or forests.
(Ord. of 2-7-89, § L-1-1)
Sec. 15-62. - Dumping, depositing, etc., litter on public or private property or waters.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw or leave or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter on any public or private property in this county or any waters in this county, unless:
(1)
The property is designated by the county or by any city or town located in the county for the disposal of litter and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to use such property;
(2)
The litter is placed into a litter receptacle or container installed on such property; or
(3)
The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property or has first obtained consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant, all in a manner consistent with the public welfare.
(b)
Any person who violates subsection (a) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows:
(1)
By a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) as provided by state law;
(2)
Anything in this section not withstanding, the person shall be directed by the court in which conviction is obtained to pick up and remove from any public street or highway or public right-of-way for a distance of not less than one (1) mile nor more than five (5) miles any litter the person has deposited and any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone else prior to the date of execution of sentence; or
(3)
The person shall be directed by the judge of the court in which conviction is obtained to pick up and remove from any public beach, public park, private right-of-way, or, with the prior permission of the legal owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, any private property upon which it can be established by competent evidence that the person has deposited litter, any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone prior to the date of execution of sentence.
(c)
The court may publish the names of persons convicted of violating subsection (a) of this section.
(Ord. of 2-7-89, § L-1-2; Ord. of 5-14-96; Ord. of 2-22-2000, §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 15-63. - Prima facie evidence; rebuttable presumption.
(a)
Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane or other conveyance in violation of section 15-62, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of the conveyance has violated sections 15-62 through 15-64.
(b)
Except as provided in subsection (a) of this section, whenever any litter which is dumped, deposited, thrown or left on public or private property in violation of section 15-62 is discovered to contain any article or articles, including but not limited to letters, bills, publications or other writings which display the name of a person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the article belongs or belonged to such person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person has violated sections 15-62 through 15-64.
(Ord. of 2-7-89, § L-1-3)
Sec. 15-64. - Enforcement.
All law enforcement agencies, officers and officials of this county are authorized, empowered and directed to enforce compliance with this article.
(Ord. of 2-7-89, § L-1-4)
Secs. 15-65—15-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - YARD TRIMMINGS DISPOSAL REGULATIONS

Sec. 15-101. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial solid waste means all types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other nonmanufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
Composting means the controlled biological decomposition of organic matter into a stable, odor-free humus.
Leachate collection system means a system at a landfill for collection of the leachate which may percolate through the waste and into the soils surrounding the landfill.
Municipal solid waste means any solid waste derived from households, including garbage, trash and sanitary waste in septic tanks and includes solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day use recreation areas. The term includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste but does not include solid waste from mining, agricultural or silvicultural operations or industrial processes or operations.
Municipal solid waste disposal facility means any facility or location where the final disposition of any amount of municipal solid waste occurs, whether or not mixed with or including commercial or industrial solid waste, including but not limited to municipal solid waste landfills.
Municipal solid waste landfill means a disposal facility where any amount of municipal solid waste, whether or not mixed with or including commercial waste, industrial waste, nonhazardous sludges or small quantity generator hazardous waste, is disposed of by means of placing an approved cover thereon.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance, other than mining, agricultural and silvicultural operations.
(Ord. of 10-1-96, § I)
Sec. 15-102. - Placement and disposal of yard trimmings; prohibitions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to place or mix yard trimmings with municipal solid waste within the unincorporated areas of the county and within any municipalities located within the county which have not adopted an ordinance which is substantially similar to this article.
(b)
Yard trimmings shall not be disposed of at any municipal solid waste disposal facility having a liner and leachate collection system or requiring vertical expansion located within the county.
(Ord. of 10-1-96, § II)
Sec. 15-103. - Sorting, storing, composting and collecting yard trimmings.
Yard trimmings transported to a county municipal solid waste disposal facility shall be sorted from other waste and diverted to a chipping, grinding, or composting area designated to receive such refuse, and it shall be the responsibility of the person transporting such refuse to insure diversion and separation.
(Ord. of 10-1-96, § III)
Sec. 15-104. - Penalties; enforcement.
(a)
Any person violating any section(s) of this article shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), by imprisonment for a term not to exceed sixty (60) days, or a combination of such fine and imprisonment.
(b)
The county ordinance officer is authorized, empowered and directed to enforce compliance with all provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 10-1-96, § IV)
