Chapter 58 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Constitutional grant of home rule powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; statutory grant of home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; authority to provided for police and fire protection, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(1).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 58-1. - Development of municipal recreation programs.
The authority to develop programs of recreational activities and services designed to meet the leisure time, interests and needs of all citizens of the city is hereby granted to and vested in the recreation board, which board shall have the power to maintain and equip parks, playgrounds, recreation centers, and the buildings associated therewith, and to develop, maintain and operate all types of recreation facilities, as provided in O.C.G.A. ch. 36-64 (O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.).
(Code 1988, § 19-1)
Secs. 58-2—58-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PUBLIC PARKS AND RECREATION FACILITIES

Sec. 58-26. - Hours of operation.
(a)
Generally; posting. The public parks shall be open daily to the public during the hours as from time to time established by the recreation board and posted in prominent places at any park; and it shall be unlawful for any person or persons, other than city personnel conducting city business therein, to occupy or be present in such parks during any other hours.
(b)
Partial, temporary closings. Any section or part of a park, or an entire park, may be declared closed to the public by the city manager at any time and for any interval of time, either temporarily or at regular or stated intervals.
(Code 1988, § 19-21)
Sec. 58-27. - Restoration of site by usery.
Each person, firm, or corporation using the public parks and grounds shall clean up all debris, extinguish all fires when such fires are permitted and leave the premises in good order and the facilities in a neat and sanitary condition.
(Code 1988, § 19-22)
Sec. 58-28. - Conduct; use regulations.
(a)
Games. It shall be unlawful for any person to take part in or abet the playing of any games involving thrown or otherwise propelled objects such as balls, stones, arrows, javelins or model airplanes, except in areas set apart for such forms of recreation. The playing of rough or potentially dangerous games such as football, baseball and soccer is prohibited except in the fields, courts or areas provided therefor.
(b)
Camping. It shall be unlawful for any person to set up tents, shacks or any other temporary shelter for the purpose of overnight camping, nor shall any person leave in a park after closing hours any movable structure or special vehicle to be used, or that could be used, for such purpose, such as a house-trailer, camp-trailer, camp-wagon or the like, unless a special permit has been given by the city manager.
(c)
Fires. It shall be unlawful for any person to build or attempt to build a fire except in such areas and under such regulations as may be designated by the park and recreation board. No person shall drop, throw or otherwise scatter lighted matches, burning cigarettes or cigars, tobacco paper or other inflammable material within any park area or on any highway, road or street abutting or contiguous thereto.
(d)
Animals. It shall be unlawful to bring any dangerous animal into any park, and it shall be unlawful to permit any dog to be in any park unless such dog is on a leash not more than eight feet long.
(e)
Automobiles. It shall be unlawful to drive or park any automobile except on a street, driveway or parking lot in any park; or to park or leave any such vehicle in any place other than one established for public parking.
(f)
Sales. It shall be unlawful for any person to vend, sell, peddle or offer for sale any commodity or article within any park unless given a special condition permit by the city manager.
(g)
Alcoholic beverages. It shall be unlawful for any person within any park to have in his or her possession, custody or control any alcoholic beverage of any kind whatsoever.
(h)
Signs. It shall be unlawful for anyone to paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any sign, placard, advertisement or inscription whatsoever, nor shall any person erect or cause to be erected any sign whatsoever on any public lands or highways or roads adjacent to a park, except that these provisions shall not apply to any properly authorized government official in pursuit of any official duty.
(i)
Picnic area. No person in a park shall use any portion of the picnic areas, or of any of the buildings or structures therein, for the purpose of holding picnics to the exclusion of other persons, nor shall any person use such areas and facilities for an unreasonable time if the facilities are crowded.
(Code 1988, § 19-23)
Sec. 58-29. - Prohibited acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation using such parks, grounds or facilities to either perform or permit to be performed any of the following acts:
(1)
Damage to park property. Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or displace or remove, any buildings; bridges; tables; benches; fireplaces; railings; paving or paving material; waterlines or other public utilities or parts or appurtenances thereof; signs, notices or placards, whether temporary or permanent; monuments; stakes, posts or other boundary markers; or other structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances whatsoever, either real or personal.
(2)
Water pollution. Throw, discharge or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay or other body of water in or adjacent to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer, or drain flowing into such waters, any substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or may result in the pollution of said waters.
(3)
Trees, plants. Damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree or plant or any part thereof.
(4)
Animals. Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, chase, tease, shoot or throw missiles at any animal, reptile or bird; or remove or have in his possession the young of any wild animal, or the eggs, nest or young of any other animal.
(5)
Trash, rubbish. Bring in or dump, deposit or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, refuse or other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in or contiguous to any park, or left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be placed in the proper receptacles where these are provided; and where receptacles are not so provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for the presence of same, and properly disposed of elsewhere.
(6)
Disturbing the peace. Disturb the peace, or use any profane or obscene language.
(7)
Public safety. Endanger the safety of any person by any conduct or act.
(8)
Fighting. Commit any assault or battery, or engage in fighting.
(9)
Alcoholic beverages. Carry, possess or drink any alcoholic beverage in the park.
(10)
Violation of parks rules. Violate any rule for the use of the park, made or approved by the recreation board.
(11)
Interference with peace, enjoyment of park. Prevent any person from using any park, or any of its facilities, or interfere with such use in compliance with this chapter and with the rules applicable to such use.
(12)
Swimming, wading, etc. Swim, bathe or wade in any waters or waterways in or adjacent to any park, except in such waters and at such places as are provided therefor, and in compliance with such regulations as are herein set forth or may be hereafter adopted.
(13)
Dressing, undressing. Dress or undress in any vehicle, toilet, or other place except in houses or structures as may be provided for that purpose.
(Code 1988, § 19-24)
Sec. 58-30. - Permit for group activities.
(a)
Required; application. Whenever more than 15 members of any group, association or organization desire to use any park facilities for a particular purpose, such as picnics, parties or theatrical or other entertainment performances, a representative of such group, association or organization shall first obtain a permit from the city clerk for such purpose.
(b)
Issuance. The city clerk shall grant the application for a permit if it appears that the group, association or organization will not interfere with the general use of the park by individual members of the public, and if the group, association or organization meets all other reasonable conditions which may be imposed by the city manager.
(c)
Bond. Such application may contain a requirement for an indemnity bond to protect the city from any liability of any kind or character and to protect city property from damage.
(Code 1988, § 19-25)
