Chapter 54 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 54-1. - Disorderly conduct.
(a)
Purpose of section. The purpose of this section is to preserve the peace and tranquility when it is endangered by the irresponsible actions of a person or persons.
(b)
Definitions. The terms "alcoholic beverage" and "retail consumption dealer" shall have the same meaning as found in chapter 6 of this Code. Other terms shall have the same meaning as found in the Official Code of Georgia Annotated (O.C.G.A. §§ 16-1-3, 16-6-2, 16-6-9). For the purposes of this section only, "public place" shall include the jails, penal and correctional institutes of this county.
(c)
Prohibited acts.
(1)
No person, including the patron of a business, shall possess and give the appearance of consuming any type of alcoholic beverage on the premises of a business that is not licensed as a retail consumption dealer. This prohibition extends to shopping center parking lots, fast food establishments and any other places of business.
(2)
No person shall engage in any noisy, boisterous or unruly conduct that disturbs or infringes upon the peace of another, particularly at an hour or time which is not common for such activity.
(3)
No person shall jostle, roughly crowd or push any person in a public place.
(4)
No person or persons shall willfully refuse the request or command of a duly authorized law enforcement officer to summon help or assistance, via telephone or police radio or whatever means of communication may be readily available where such refusal could result in injury to any person or damage to any property.
(5)
No person shall intentionally interfere with another's lawful attempt to summon police assistance through the use of telephone, radio, or other communication device.
(6)
No person shall intentionally urinate or defecate while in a public place other than a public restroom.
(7)
No person shall be and appear in an intoxicated condition in any public place or within the curtilage of any private residence not his own other than by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant, which condition is made manifest by boisterousness, by indecent condition or act, or by vulgar, profane, loud or unbecoming language.
(8)
No person shall recklessly or knowingly commit any act which may reasonably be expected to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting, gathering, or procession.
(9)
No person shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another person whereby such person is placed in reasonable fear of the safety of such person's life, limb or health.
(10)
No person shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another person whereby the property of such person is placed in danger of being damaged or destroyed.
(11)
No person shall, without provocation, use to or of another person in such other person's presence, opprobrious or abusive words which by their very utterance tend to incite an immediate breach of the peace, that is to say, words which as a matter of common knowledge and under ordinary circumstances will, when used to or of another person in such other person's presence, naturally tend to provoke violent resentment, that is, words commonly called fighting words.
(12)
No person shall, without provocation, use obscene and vulgar or profane language in the presence of or by telephone to a person under the age of 14 years which threatens an immediate breach of the peace.
(13)
No person shall commit any of the following acts in a public place:
a.
An act or a simulated act of sexual intercourse or sodomy;
b.
A lewd exposure or indecent fondling of the sexual organs;
c.
A lewd caress or indecent fondling of the body of another person; or
d.
A lewd appearance in a state of partial or complete nudity.
(14)
No person shall enter or remain upon the private recreational facilities of another, without the consent of the owner, or such person authorized to give such consent, for the purpose of utilizing such recreational facilities which are normally reserved for the residents or employees of any residential neighborhood, apartment complex, business or association.
(15)
No person shall without authority cross any type of barrier or barrier tape erected by any police, fire or other public official for the purpose of excluding the public from the scene of any incident or emergency.
(16)
No person shall refuse to disperse when requested to do so by a law enforcement officer at the scene of any incident, emergency or other occurrence where the public safety and order are threatened.
Any singular or combined presence of the acts enumerated in this subsection may constitute a violation of this section.
(d)
Authority for incorporating state code sections. Authority for incorporating certain sections from the Official Code of Georgia Annotated is contained in the criminal code which specifically authorizes municipalities to implement ordinances that proscribe the described conduct.
State Law reference— Disorderly conduct, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-39.
Sec. 54-2. - Discharging firearms, air guns, etc.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to discharge any gun, pistol or other firearm within 300 feet of any street, alley or building, or at any point upon the land of any other person without the express consent of the owner or occupant thereof; or to discharge, at any time, any air gun, BB gun or toy gun which projects lead or any other missile.
(b)
This section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law from discharging a firearm in the performance of his duty; nor to any citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending persons or property.
(Code 1988, § 14-3)
Sec. 54-3. - Throwing of missiles.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to throw any stone, rock or other missile upon or at any vehicle, building, tree or other public or private property, or upon or at any person in any public or private way or place.
(Code 1988, § 14-4)
Sec. 54-4. - Adoption by reference of county offenses regulations.
Chapter 74, offenses, of the Code of Ordinances, Gwinnett County, Georgia, as it existed on the adoption date of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this Code with the same force and effect as if fully set forth herein.
