Chapter 10 - ANIMALS [1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Constitutional grant of home rule powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; statutory grant of home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; animals generally, O.C.G.A. § 4-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - City designated as bird sanctuary.
(a)
Area embraced. The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
(b)
Trapping, shooting, etc., birds or wild fowl; abatement of nuisance. It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or molest in any manner any bird or wild fowl or to rob bird nests or wild fowl nests. Provided, however, if starlings or similar birds are found to be congregating in such numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or menace to health or property in the opinion of the proper health authorities of the city, then in such event health authorities shall meet with representatives of the Audubon Society, Bird Club, Garden Club or Humane Society, or as many of said clubs as are to be found in the city, after having given clubs at least three days actual notice of the time and place of the meeting to the representatives of such clubs.
(c)
Destroying birds deemed nuisance. If, as a result of such meeting, no satisfactory alternative is found to abate such nuisance, then the birds may be destroyed in such numbers and in such manner as is deemed available by the health authorities under supervision of the chief of police of the city.
(d)
Penalty for violation. Anyone violating the provisions of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $100.00 or imprisoned not exceeding 30 days.
(Code 1988, § 4-2; Ord. of 10-4-1975)
Sec. 10-2. - Damage caused by animals.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases when used in this section shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Property of another includes the driveways and lawns of single-family residential homeowners as well as common halls in any apartment house, tenement house, hotel or other multiple dwelling; any entranceway, stairway, or wall immediately abutting a public sidewalk; and any theater, shop, store, office building, and any other building used in common by the public.
Property of the city includes but is not limited to any and all public streets, sidewalks, parks, buildings, and adjacent lawns thereto.
(b)
Unlawful whether under restraint or not. It shall be unlawful for the owner or any person having custody of any dog or other animal to permit, either willfully or by failure to exercise due care or control, any dog or animal to enter upon or damage the property of the city, or to damage the property of another, whether said animal is under leash or restraint or not under such leash or restraint.
(c)
Leaving fecal matter on property of another. For purposes of this section, the leaving or dropping of fecal matter by any dog or animal upon city property or property of another which is not immediately removed shall be deemed to cause damage thereupon.
(d)
Removal of fecal matter by person in control. If a dog or animal damages property as provided herein, the owner or other person having custody or control of such dog or animal shall immediately remove such fecal matter or other droppings and dispose of such matter on his own property or in some other lawful manner that does not create a danger to the public health.
(e)
Proof deemed sufficient for conviction. In the event that any dog or other animal shall cause damage upon any property of another or upon city property, proof of the occurrence and proof of the identity of the owner or other person having custody or control of the dog or animal shall be sufficient to convict the person owning or having custody or control of the animal violating the terms and conditions of this section.
(f)
Penalty for violation of section. The penalty for any violation of this section shall be a fine of not less than $25.00 nor more than $500.00.
(Code 1988, § 4-3; Ord. of 10-14-1996)
Secs. 10-3—10-26. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ANIMAL CONTROL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted September 14, 2014, repealed the former Art. II, §§ 10-27—10-47, and enacted a new Art. II as set out herein. The former Art. II pertained to Ord. of 4-10-2006.

Sec. 10-27. - Adoption of Gwinnett County Animal Control Ordinance.
The city council adopts and incorporates by reference the Animal Control Ordinance, Chapter 10 of the Gwinnett County Code of Ordinances, as may be amended from time to time, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing animals, including dangerous dogs and responsible dog ownership, the same is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which this chapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. of 9-14-2015(2))
Sec. 10-28. - Enforcement and fees.
The city has entered into agreements with Gwinnett County in accordance with the service delivery strategy statutes providing permission and authority to the county to provide animal control services within the corporate boundaries of the city. Additionally, the city hereby authorizes Gwinnett County and the Gwinnett County Animal Control unit to enforce the animal control ordinance, as adopted in Section 1426, to set and collect fees, retain any and all such fees, and to enforce the ordinance in the county's recorder's court or other such court as may have jurisdiction of the enforcement of said duly adopted ordinances.
(Ord. of 9-14-2015(2))
