Chapter 56 - MOBILE HOMES, MOBILE HOME PARKS, SUBDIVISIONS AND TRAILER PARKS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, Ch. 5; solid waste management, § 11-21 et seq.; parks and recreation, Ch. 19; planning and development, generally, Ch. 20; soil erosion and sedimentation control, § 20-21 et seq.; utilities, Ch. 25; zoning, App. A.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 56-1. - Purpose and intent.
In pursuance of the authority conferred by the state and in order to provide for the placement of mobile homes, trailers and campers in an environment that will provide pleasant and satisfactory living conditions; to provide no adverse effects on neighboring properties; the city council does ordain and enact into law the following articles and sections.
(Code 1988, 15-1; Ord. of 7-28-1986, Art. I)
Sec. 56-2. - Title.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as "The Mobile Home Ordinance of the City of Sugar Hill, Georgia."
(Code 1988, 15-2; Ord. of 7-28-1986, Art. II)
Sec. 56-3. - Interpretation, construction of terms or words.
Except as specifically defined herein, all words used in this chapter have their customary dictionary definitions.
Words used in the singular include the plural and words used in the plural include the singular.
Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
The word "lot" includes the word "plot" or "parcel."
The word "map" or "zoning map" means the zoning map of the City of Sugar Hill, Georgia.
The word "person" includes the words "individuals," "firms," "trusts," "partnerships," "corporations," "associations" and "governmental bodies."
The word "shall" is always mandatory and never discretionary.
The word "used" or "occupied" shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged or designated to be used or occupied."
(Ord. of 7-28-1986, Art. III, § 3.01)
Sec. 56-4. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words or terms shall have the meanings respectively ascribed:
Camper means any self-propelled vehicle designed and constructed so as to permit occupancy thereof as a temporary dwelling unit or sleeping place.
City means the City of Sugar Hill, Gwinnett County, Georgia.
Lot means a developed or undeveloped tract of land in one (1) ownership, legally transferable as a single unit of land.
Lot depth means the horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines, measured generally perpendicular to the front lot line.
Lot, through means a lot having frontage on two (2) streets that are approximately parallel.
Lot width means the horizontal distance between the sidelines of a lot measured at the front building line.
Mobile home means a structure designed as a moveable dwelling; built upon its own permanent chassis; transported on its own chassis (normally by towing) in one (1) or more sections; occupiable with or without a foundation; and containing within all the normal utility systems (plumbing, electrical, heating, and cooling). Mobile homes constructed after June 15, 1976, shall be certified to comply with the State of Georgia Department of Community Affairs and the U.S. Government Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards. All mobile home units constructed prior to June 15, 1976, shall comply with the specifications prescribed by the American National Standards Institute.
(1)
Single-wide mobile home: A mobile home constructed and transported as a single unit.
(2)
Double-wide mobile home: A mobile home constructed and transported in more than one (1) unit, and which must be joined at the site of placement into a single whole.
Mobile home lot means a parcel of land for the exclusive use of the occupants of a single mobile home.
Mobile home park means a parcel of land that has been planned and improved for the placement of four (4) or more mobile homes for permanent or semi-permanent use. Pads within a mobile home park remain the property of the park owner and are rented to tenants. A mobile home park does not include the provision of space for storage, inspection or sale of unoccupied mobile homes.
Mobile home space means a plot of ground within a mobile home park designated for the accommodation of not more than one (1) mobile home of single-family occupancy.
Mobile home subdivision means a tract of land planned and improved for the placement of four (4) or more mobile homes for permanent use on individually owned private lots.
Modular homes means a factory-fabricated transportable building consisting of units designed to be incorporated at a building site on a permanent foundation into a structure.
Nonconforming use means any building or land lawfully occupied at the time of passage or amendment of this chapter which does not conform, after the passage or amendment of this chapter, with these regulations.
Owner means any person who is authorized to operate and maintain a mobile home, mobile home park, mobile home subdivision or trailer park, under the provisions of these regulations.
Parking space or off-street parking space consists of space adequate for parking a vehicle with room for opening doors on both sides, maneuvering room, and an access to a public street.
Service building means a building housing office, laundry, restroom, maintenance and similar facilities intended for use by residents of the mobile home park or trailer park only.
Street means a public way for vehicular traffic which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
(1)
Major street: A main thoroughfare designed and used for high traffic volumes, and designated as such on the zoning map of the city.
(2)
Collector street: A street designed and used primarily for low traffic volumes and access to individual lots, and designated as such on the zoning map of the city.
Structure means anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to something on the ground.
Trailer means a vehicle, including a motor home, designed and/or maintained for use as a temporary dwelling or sleeping place, for travel or recreational purposes, having no foundation other than wheels or jacks.
Trailer park means a parcel of land which is used solely for the rental or lease of lots for transient campers, trailers, motor homes, or temporary parking of any other recreational vehicle.
Yard means an open space on a lot situated between the principal mobile home, building, or use on the lot and a lot line, and unoccupied by any structure except as otherwise provided herein.
Yard, front, means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal mobile home, building or use, extending the full width of the lot and located between the nearest street right-of-way line and the front line of the mobile home or building, projected to the side lines of the lot.
Yard, rear, means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal mobile home, building or use, unoccupied except by an accessory building or use, extending the full width of the lot and located between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the mobile home or building, projected to the side lines of the lot.
Yard, side, means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal mobile home, building or use, located between the mobile home or building and the side line of the lot and extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard.
(Code 1988, 15-4; Ord. of 7-28-1986, Art. III, § 302)
Sec. 56-5. - Applicability of chapter provisions.
The provisions of this chapter shall govern the operation of all mobile home parks, mobile home subdivisions and trailer parks within the corporate limits of the City of Sugar Hill, Georgia, hereinafter referred to as "the city," as now or hereafter may be established. No mobile home, trailer or camper shall be used or occupied except in conformity with the regulations of this chapter.
(Code 1988, 15-5; Ord. of 7-28-1986, Art. IV, § 401)
Sec. 56-6. - Permitted locations.
(a)
Mobile home parks, mobile home subdivisions and trailer parks will be permitted only in areas designated "Mobile Home Park and Mobile Home Subdivision District (MH)" on the zoning map.
(b)
The parking of a mobile home in any district other than MH shall be prohibited; provided, however, that:
(1)
This chapter shall not prevent the storage of mobile homes on commercial sales lots for mobile homes when the same are unoccupied and are not used for any purpose other than inspection and display. The sales office for such a mobile home sales lot may be located in a mobile home.
(2)
Construction trailers and mobile homes used as offices may be placed on construction sites while construction is in progress, however, the same shall not be used for living quarters. When not in active use, construction trailers may be stored at the contractor's commercial base of operations.
(c)
The parking or storage of not more than two (2) travel trailers or campers will be permitted in the side yard or rear yard of any residential lot, however the travel trailer or camper shall not be used for living, sleeping or commercial or utility purposes while the same is so parked or stored. Mobile homes may not be parked or stored except in approved mobile home parks, mobile home subdivisions or commercial sales lots.
(Code 1988, 15-6; Ord. of 7-28-1986, Art. IV, § 402)
Cross reference— Zoning, App. A.
Sec. 56-7. - Discontinuance of nonconforming uses.
The lawful use of any mobile home or land existing on July 28, 1986, may be continued, even though such use does not conform with the provisions of this chapter. In the event the use of any nonconforming mobile home is discontinued for a period of one (1) year or more, the same may not be continued as a nonconforming use or moved to any other nonconforming site. A nonconforming mobile home may be replaced with another nonconforming unit and such replacement unit may contain more floor space than the original unit but not less floor space than the original unit.
(Code 1988, 15-7; Ord. of 7-28-1986, Art. V, § 504)
Sec. 56-8. - Enforcement.
The city manager of Sugar Hill and the Gwinnett County Board of Health shall be among the officials charged with enforcing this chapter.
(Code 1988, 15-8; Ord. of 7-28-1986, Art. VII, § 701)
Sec. 56-9. - Violation; penalties.
(a)
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to fine or imprisonment, or both, as provided by the law. Any structure, use or improvement established contrary to the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be abated, enjoined or otherwise regulated by all existing laws and regulations of the city. Upon violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, any license granted by the mobile home subdivision, trailer park, or for the occupancy of a mobile home may, at the option of the mayor and council of the city, be revoked or suspended. In providing for penalties under the law, each day that a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
Any person who furnishes water, gas or electricity to a mobile home located in the city for which no registration permit has been issued shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Code 1988, 15-9; Ord. of 6-28-1986, Art. VII, § 702)
Charter reference— Power of city to define a nuisance and provide for its abatement, whether on public or private property, § 1.12(28).
Sec. 56-10. - Conflict with other provisions.
Whenever the regulations of this chapter require or impose more restrictive standards than are required in or under any other statute or covenants, the requirements of this chapter shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other statute or covenant require more restrictive standards than are required by this chapter, the provisions of such statutes or covenants shall govern.
(Code 1988, 15-10; Ord. of 6-28-1986, Art. VIII, § 801)
Secs. 56-11—56-38. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LICENSES AND PERMITS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Occupational licenses and business regulations, Ch. 18.

Sec. 56-39. - Mobile home park and trailer park licenses.
(a)
Required; application; fee. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, enlarge, maintain or operate or to permit to be established, operated or maintained upon any property owned or controlled by him, a mobile home park or trailer park within the city unless such a person shall first obtain a valid written business license therefor from the city. The application for a business license or the renewal thereof shall be filed, with the city clerk and shall be accompanied by a fee of twelve dollars ($12.00) per lot in the park.
(b)
Conformity with chapter; nonconforming uses; variances. Business licenses may not be issued until the proposed establishment conforms to the requirements set forth in these regulations, except that the maintenance of a park that is in existence on July 28, 1986, may be continued as a nonconforming use for a period of three (3) years. Beginning three (3) years after the July 28, 1986, full compliance with these regulations will be required of all parks, except that minimum lot sizes and minimum spacing requirements will not be imposed in cases where noncompliance existed at the time of adoption of the chapter. The mayor and council may, upon the recommendation of the planning commission, grant a permanent variance in cases where continued noncompliance by a park which existed on July 28, 1986, is demonstrated to beyond the control of the park owner. The license to operate shall expire one (1) year from its date of issuance but may be renewed for additional periods of one (1) year each.
(c)
Notice to owners. The city clerk shall notify each existing park and subdivision owners in writing of the adoption of this chapter and its requirements. This notice shall be sent by certified mail no later than five (5) days after July 28, 1986. A proposed plan for compliance with this chapter and timetable for completion of necessary improvements must be submitted by the park owner to the planning commission within six (6) months after the mailing of notice by the city clerk.
(Code 1988, 15-21; Ord. of 7-28-1986, Art. V, § 501)
Sec. 56-40. - Construction permits.
(a)
Application; term. Application for permits to construct or enlarge a mobile home park, mobile home subdivision or trailer park shall be made in triplicate upon forms provided by the city clerk. Such forms shall be completed in all details by the applicant, signed by him in his name in his own behalf or as authorized agent for the owner, as the case may be. One (1) approved copy shall be returned to the applicant for his own file and one (1) copy shall be filed with the city clerk. Permits shall be void after six (6) months from their date of issuance unless construction of the proposed facility has begun. Construction of the minimum facilities required by this chapter and shown on the approved plat for any one (1) of development must be completed prior to occupancy of any portion of that specific phase.
(b)
Information required. Accompanying the application for a permit to construct and/or operate a mobile home park, mobile home subdivision or trailer park shall be three (3) copies of a plan prepared by a registered engineer or surveyor showing the following information:
(1)
All property lines with dimensions, lot numbers and block numbers.
(2)
Adjoining street with right-of-way and paving widths, and distance to nearest intersection.
(3)
Location of buildings and other structures referenced to the centerline of adjoining streets and to the property lines of the tract.
(4)
Entrances and exits, streets and street names, right-of-way lines and off-street parking areas.
(5)
North arrow, district number and land lot, date, name of owner, scale and date of plat.
(6)
Driveways, walkways and mobile home or camper sites.
(7)
Location and size of all utility lines, existing and proposed.
(8)
Location of outdoor lighting.
(9)
Location of creeks, ponds and storm drainage facilities.
(10)
Location and width of all easements, buffer zones and minimum setback lines.
(11)
Existing topography and proposed final topography in the form of a site plan having a minimum scale of one (1) inch equals two hundred (200) feet and a maximum contour interval of five (5) feet.
(12)
Recreational areas with description of type and quantity of facilities to be provided.
(13)
Names of all adjoining subdivisions and names of recorded owners of adjoining land.
(14)
Any additional information specifically requested by the city manager.
(Code 1988, 15-22; Ord. of 1-28-1986, Art. V, § 502)
Sec. 56-41. - Individual permits.
Before any mobile home is parked, placed or temporarily or permanently located within the corporate limits of the city, the owner, tenant, lessee or any other individual, partnership or corporation owning or occupying same shall notify the city clerk that the mobile home is to be moved into the city and shall pay the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) to the city for the purpose of registering the unit. Prior to the issuance of the registration, the owner, tenant, leasee or occupier shall state in writing the proposed location of such mobile home within the city. No permit indicating registration of a mobile home shall be issued by the city unless the mobile home is to be located in an approved mobile home park or mobile home subdivision.
(Code 1988, 15-23; Ord. of 7-28-1986, Art. V, § 503)
Secs. 56-42—56-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS

Sec. 56-71. - Area and space requirements.
A mobile home park, mobile home subdivision or trailer park shall be no less than three (3) acres in size, and shall be located on a well drained site, properly graded to ensure positive drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water. An overall density of not greater than six and five tenths (6.5) mobile homes per acre will be permitted.
(Code 1988, 15-31; Ord. of 7-28-1986, Art. VI, § 601)
Sec. 56-72. - Mobile home lots.
(a)
Each mobile home lot shall be at least forty (40) feet in width at the building setback line. Mobile home park lots shall provide a minimum of five thousand (5,000) square feet in area, and mobile home subdivision lots shall provide a minimum of eight thousand (8,000) square feet in area. For each lot provided, the developer must also furnish land dedicated for common recreational use as provided in section 56-76(6). Greater lot areas will be required to comply with Gwinnett County Health Department regulations where community sanitary sewerage is not available. Plans utilizing unique siting of mobile homes, such as a cluster development, may, with the approval of the planning commission, provide individual lots of not less than four thousand (4,000) square feet; however, overall density requirements must still be met.
(b)
No mobile home shall be located within:
(1)
Ten (10) feet of its individual lot line.
(2)
Twenty (20) feet of another such unit.
(3)
Thirty (30) feet of the right-of-way line of any major public street or highway or twenty (20) feet of the right-of-way line of any collector street.
(4)
Fifteen (15) feet of any exterior boundary of the park or subdivision or any building within the park.
(5)
Twenty (20) feet of any service building within the park or subdivision.
(Code 1988, 15-32; Ord. of 7-28-1986, Art. VI, § 602)
Sec. 56-73. - Trailer and camper spaces.
Each space provided for transient parking and camping at an approved trailer park shall at least three thousand (3,000) square feet and shall be a minimum of forty (40) feet in width.
(Code 1988, 15-33; Ord. of 7-28-1986, Art. VI, § 603)
Sec. 56-74. - Roads and streets.
(a)
All mobile home spaces in mobile home parks or mobile home subdivisions shall abut upon a paved internal street not less than twenty (20) feet in width. Spaces at trailer parks may abut a gravel surfaced driveway. The entrance road from the public street shall have a minimum width of at least twenty-four (24) feet extending at least one hundred (100) feet into the park or subdivision.
(b)
Privately owned internal streets shall service all lots and parcels within mobile home parks and trailer parks. Public streets with a mobile home subdivision shall have a minimum right-of-way width of fifty (50) feet.
(c)
Streets within mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions shall have a minimum 80-foot curve radius at all deflections in alignment. Dead-end streets shall have a minimum 80-foot diameter paved turnaround. Streets shall be constructed upon a sound compacted subgrade and shall have a minimum of six (6) inches of crushed stone base and a minimum of two (2) inches of asphalt pavement. All streets in mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions will be provided with curbs, gutters and storm drainage. All mobile home park and trailer park streets and off-street paved parking spaces shall be maintained in a state of good repair at all times by the park owner.
(d)
No street name shall be used within a mobile home park or subdivision which will duplicate or be confused with the names of existing public streets.
(Code 1988, 15-34; Ord. of 7-28-1986, Art. VI, § 604)
Sec. 56-75. - Automobile parking.
Two (2) off-street paved parking spaces shall be provided for each mobile home lot at a location convenient to the occupants of the mobile home. One (1) off-street automobile parking space shall be provided at each camp space at a travel trailer park.
(Code 1988, 15-35; Ord. of 7-28-1986, Art. VI, § 605)
Sec. 56-76. - Additional minimum facilities—For mobile home parks and subdivisions.
Each mobile home park or subdivision shall provide the following minimum facilities:
(1)
All-weather paved walkways of not less than two (2) feet in width to each trailer space and to all service buildings and public facilities.
(2)
A weatherproof electric outlet supplying 110/220 volt, 100-ampere-power at each mobile home lot. Overhead power lines shall be not less than fifteen (15) feet to any trailer. The electrical system shall conform in every respect to the National Electrical Code.
(3)
Each mobile home space shall be connected with the city water system and, if available, the city sewerage system, in conformance with the plumbing code of the city.
(4)
Each mobile home lot shall be located within five hundred (500) feet of a fire hydrant. Existing nonconforming parks shall be brought into compliance with this provision within three (3) years of July 28, 1986.
(5)
Garbage and refuse collection facilities acceptable to the city.
(6)
Recreation areas containing at least ten thousand eight hundred ninety (10,890) square feet for mobile home parks having less than twenty (20) lots, and containing five hundred fifty (550) square feet per lot for all other parks reserved and improved for recreational use. Required buffer zones will not be included as a part of the recreation areas.
(7)
A planted buffer zone of at least twenty (20) feet is required in addition to side and rear yards where a mobile home or trailer use abuts a single-family residential district. The buffer zone shall be planted or permanently maintained in trees and shrubbery that will, within five (5) years after planting, be at least six (6) feet in height and will obscure objects behind the buffer zone at a distance of fifty (50) feet.
(8)
Outdoor lighting for all streets.
(9)
Tie-downs shall be provided for each mobile home in accordance with the building code requirements of Gwinnett County. The ties shall consist of wire cable or rust-resistant steel straps, and withstand a minimum stress of four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds. The cable or strap shall be secured to the mobile home frame and the anchor with a yoke-type fastener and tensioning device, but not with hook-end turnbuckles. Mobile homes having factory installed over-the-top tie-downs shall have these ties secured to the anchors in addition to the frame ties. Double-wide mobile homes do not require over-the-top tie-downs, but are subject to the frame tie requirements applicable to single-wide mobile homes. Acceptable types of anchors include expanding anchors, screw augers and concrete deadmen. Auger type anchors shall be installed to a depth of four (4) feet minimum in the ground. All anchors shall be designated to withstand a pull of four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds.
(10)
Foundation piers shall be a minimum of sixteen (16) inches by eight (8) inches concrete blocks with wood wedges.
(11)
The space beneath each mobile home or modular home shall be fully enclosed with manufactured aluminum mobile home skirting, brick, stone, concrete block, or other approved weatherproof skirting within sixty (60) days after the certificate of occupancy is issued to protect this space from the elements and to create an aesthetic appearance for each unit. Materials used for enclosure purposes shall be rigidly mounted and shall be acceptable for exterior use.
(12)
All mobile home park owners must identify each rental space within their mobile home park by letter or number, or a combination of both, so as to properly identify each such space and to facilitate the location of mobile homes occupying such spaces by city utility crews, postal service employees, emergency vehicles, etc. Park owners are required to install identifying numbers and/or letters so as to make them plainly visible from the street immediately adjacent to each space, and in a manner so as not to create confusion. Numbers and/or letters may be installed on the rental space occupant's mailbox. If an area is set aside for the common location of all mailboxes within a mobile home park, then the owner must erect four-by-four-inch treated posts of not less than three (3) feet in height, affixing the identifying numbers and/or letter to such posts for each rental space. Identifying numbers and/or letters must be of a light-reflecting material and must be of a uniform size, no smaller than three (3) inches in height.
(Code 1988, 15-36; Ord. of 6-28-1986, Art. VI, § 606)
Sec. 56-77. - Same—For trailer parks.
Each trailer park shall provide the facilities required by section 56-76(2), (5), (6) and (7), and the following:
(1)
Separate toilet and bathing facilities for each sex within three hundred (300) feet of each trailer or camper space; provide one (1) commode, one (1) lavatory and one (1) tub or shower head for each sex for each ten (10) trailer spaces or fraction thereof; also provide one (1) urinal for each ten (10) spaces or fraction thereof in the facilities for men.
(2)
Laundry facilities at the rate of two (2) washing machines and one (1) dryer for each fifty (50) trailer spaces or fraction thereof.
(Code 1988, 15-37; Ord. of 6-28-1986, Art. VI, § 607)
