Chapter 46 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 46-1. - Session dates and times.
Court shall be regularly held on the first Tuesday evening of every month and shall commence at 4:00 p.m. in the City Hall Annex or other such location as the municipal court judge shall designate. Additional court sessions may be set, from time to time as needed, by the municipal court judge. Court sessions may be cancelled or rescheduled by the city manager after consultation with the municipal court judge.
(Code 1988, § 16-1; Ord. of 9-9-1991; Amd. of 5-2002; Ord. of 2-13-2006(1))
Sec. 46-2. - Prosecutor; witnesses.
The city attorney may be the prosecutor to represent the city in connection with each trial or other matter brought before the court at each session, and a code enforcement officer shall be the primary prosecuting witness, together with such additional witnesses as may be required by the city or prosecutor.
(Code 1988, § 16-2; Ord. of 2-13-2006(1))
Sec. 46-3. - Bailiff.
(a)
The city manager or his designee, if directed by the council, shall serve as the bailiff of the municipal court.
(b)
The duties of the bailiff shall consist generally of seeing that the courtroom is in proper condition for sessions of court, of assisting in keeping order while court is in session, and of doing such other acts of assistance as may be required of him by the judge of the court and the city clerk.
(Code 1988, § 16-3)
Sec. 46-4. - Record of cases.
A record of all cases heard in the municipal court for violation of this Code or other city ordinances shall be kept in a suitable bound volume by the city clerk. Such record shall contain the name of the defendant, the nature of the offense charged, the final disposition of the case and the date of final disposition.
(Code 1988, § 16-4)
Sec. 46-5. - Service of summons.
Any person charged with violating any city ordinance or any section of this Code shall receive notice by citation or service of summons. Such notice may be issued by a code enforcement officer, the city clerk, the city manager,. or other designated city personnel. The notice shall be directed to the accused and shall distinctly state the offense charged, the time and place, as far as practicable, of the offense charged, and the date, hour and place of trial, requiring the accused to appear before the Sugar Hill Municipal Court to answer the accusation made. Notice shall be served upon the accused by certified mail, return receipt requested; personal service verified by a signature; or by leaving a copy at the most notorious place of abode of the accused. However, notice issued for violation of laws or ordinances relating to the parking, abandonment or junked automobile may be directed to an unknown person as owner of the automobile designated in the notice and may be served upon such person by leaving a copy in or attached to such automobile.
(Code 1988, § 16-5; Ord. of 2-13-2006(1))
Sec. 46-6. - Issuance, service of subpoenas.
The city clerk or the clerk of the Sugar Hill Municipal Court shall issue subpoenas for the appearance of all witnesses necessary for the prosecution or for the defense in any case pending before the municipal court. All subpoenas shall be personally served or by leaving the subpoena at the most notorious place of abode of the person being subpoenaed.
(Code 1988, § 16-6; Ord. of 2-13-2006(1))
Sec. 46-7. - Failure to obey summons or subpoena.
Any person who fails to appear at the time and place set out in any summons or subpoena served upon such person shall be guilty of contempt of court and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished for same.
(Code 1988, § 16-7)
Sec. 46-8. - When bond required.
When any authorized law enforcement officer or the city marshal has arrested any person for violation of any provision of this Code or any city ordinance and a trial cannot be had immediately, the officer may take a cash bond not exceeding the maximum fine for the offense, or a bond with a good security, for the appearance of such person before the judge of the municipal court. If such person fails or refuses to give a bond, the officer may cause such person to be confined in the the county jail until a trial can be held, provided that the mayor or the municipal judge, in the discretion of either, may release such person in such person's own recognizance without security.
(Code 1988, § 16-8)
Sec. 46-9. - Forfeiture of bond.
Upon the failure of a person to appear in the municipal court at the time and place fixed by the summons, the judge of said court shall enter a judgment of forfeiture on any cash bond, or, in the case of a security bond, shall pass a rule requiring the principal and surety on such bond to show cause on the date named therein, which date shall not be less than ten days from the passage of such ruling, why they should not be required to pay the amount of said bond. If no sufficient cause is shown, the judge shall enter judgment against the principal and surety for the amount of the forfeited bond and shall direct the city clerk to issue execution thereon.
(Code 1988, § 16-9)
Sec. 46-10. - Surcharges and court costs.
(a)
State surcharges. The municipal court shall impose all addon fees or surcharges required by state, federal, or local law and said fees or surcharges shall be transmitted to the appropriate entity as required bylaw.
(b)
Interpreter fees. The municipal court shall be authorized to impose fees for providing an accused with the services of an interpreter in accordance with the rules and regulations set forth by the Georgia Supreme Court.
(c)
Court costs. The municipal court shall impose a surcharge not to exceed $60.00 to any penalty imposed for a violation of city ordinances or codes to defray the costs of operation associated with the prosecution of such offense. If the addition of the $60.00 surcharge results in a total monetary penalty exceeding that which is allowed by law, said surcharge shall be reduced to ensure compliance with all applicable laws. The surcharge imposed by this subsection shall be paid into the city treasury.
(Code 1988, § 16-10; Ord. of 4-12-2010(1))
Sec. 46-11. - Collection of fines.
When directed by the judge of the municipal court, the city clerk shall issue executions for fines imposed by said court, including the costs, which executions may be levied upon any goods or chattels, lands or tenements of the person so fined.
(Code 1988, § 16-11)
Sec. 46-12. - Appeals.
Appeals from decisions of the Sugar Hill Municipal Court shall be taken by writ of certiorari to the Superior Court of Gwinnett County, Georgia.
(Code 1988, § 16-12; Ord. of 2-13-2006(1))
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 15-6-8.
Secs. 46-13—46-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - INDIGENT DEFENSE PROGRAM[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Exhibit A, referred to in this article is not set out herein but can be found on file in the city clerk's office.

Sec. 46-46. - Internal operating procedures of the county judicial circuit's indigent defense program adopted by reference.
The internal operating procedures of the Gwinnett Judicial Circuit's Indigent Defense Program as accepted by the Gwinnett County Indigent Defense Committee on January 30, 2002, and as ordered by the Superior Court of Gwinnett County on January 30, 2002, the State Court of Gwinnett County on February 7, 2002, the Magistrate Court of Gwinnett County on February 17, 2002, the Gwinnett Circuit Juvenile Court on February 7, 2002, and the Recorder's Court of Gwinnett County on February 7, 2002, a copy of which is hereby set forth as exhibit A is hereby adopted as the official policy of the city as modified herein.
(Amd. of 1-2003, § 2-200)
Sec. 46-47. - Definitions.
All references to the county or any office of the county including, but not limited to, the administrative office of the courts, in exhibit A shall be considered to be references to the City of Sugar Hill. All references to the "committee" or "governing committee" in exhibit A with respect to the selection of panel attorneys for the municipal court of the city and the processing and consideration of invoices from attorneys shall be considered to be references to the municipal court of the city.
(Amd. of 1-2003, § 2-201)
Sec. 46-48. - Panel of attorneys.
The panel of attorneys from which appointments may be made by the municipal court of the city may be compiled by periodically soliciting attorneys who are on the panel of qualified attorneys created by the Gwinnett County Indigent Defense Governing Committee. The city panel of attorneys need not be categorized as in part X of exhibit A. Any attorney on the county's panel of attorneys who is involuntarily removed for cause pursuant to section 10.4(B) of exhibit A hereto shall be ineligible for appointment by the municipal court of the city. Any other qualified attorney not appearing on the county's panel of qualified attorneys may request his or her inclusion on the city panel and may be included on the city panel if found to be qualified by the chief municipal court judge. Any attorney accepting an appointment by the municipal court of the city shall be required to comply with the guidelines and standards applicable to panel attorneys and other appointed counsel set forth in exhibit A, as modified.
(Amd. of 1-2003, § 2-203)
Sec. 46-49. - Fees and expenses.
Any fee or expense invoice submitted by appointed counsel shall be submitted to the municipal court clerk and shall be reviewed by the city municipal court judge who made the appointment or the chief judge, whose decision regarding city panel attorneys, payment of fees, expenses, and costs shall be final and may not be appealed except as may be provided by law.
(Amd. of 1-2003, § 2-204)
Sec. 46-50. - Determination of right to appointed counsel.
To the extent that exhibit A assumes a standard for determining an indigent defendant's right to appointed counsel inconsistent with the holding of Alabama v. Shelton, it shall be the policy of the city to apply the standards of Alabama v. Shelton.
(Amd. of 1-2003, § 2-205)
Sec. 46-51. - Appeal.
The term "appeal" as used in section 8.2 and section 3 of exhibit A shall be construed to include a petition for certiorari to be filed in the superior court of the county after a conviction in the municipal court of the city. However, unless otherwise ordered by the municipal court, any appointment of counsel by the municipal court of the city shall terminate upon the entry of an order binding the case over to a court of record prior to any adjudication of the merits of the case by the municipal court.
(Amd. of 1-2003, § 2-206)
Sec. 46-52. - Attorneys eligible for appointment
The municipal court clerk shall maintain a list of attorneys deemed eligible for appointment by the chief municipal court judge. The municipal court clerk shall provide a form for requesting appointed counsel to any defendant in a case pending in the municipal court and shall forward any such form or other request for appointed counsel to the chief judge of the municipal court. If no such forms have been developed or are not available at the time a request for appointed counsel is made, the clerk shall notify the chief judge of such request.
(Amd. of 1-2003, § 2-207)
Sec. 46-53. - Chief judge to develop procedures, etc., to effectuate this article.
The chief judge of the municipal court of the city may develop internal operating procedures and forms and other documents as may be necessary to effectuate this article.
(Amd. of 1-2003, § 2-208)
