ARTICLE XVII. - M-1, LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT

Section 17.01. - Statement of purpose.
The intent of this article is to permit certain industries which are of a light manufacturing character to locate in planned industrial parks. So that such uses may be integrated with other land uses, limitations are placed upon the degree of noise, smoke, glare, waste, and other features of industrial operations. It is further intended that these light industrial uses act as a transition between heavier industrial uses and non-industrial uses. Light industries do not necessarily require railroad access.
(Ord. No. 2006-5, ยง 1, 10-24-06)
Section 17.02. - Permitted uses.
The following uses shall be permitted in a M-1 district:
1.
Airports, including related facilities customarily found in airports, such as:
a.
Car rental agencies.
b.
Facilities for the servicing, repair and maintenance of aircraft.
c.
Restaurants, newsstands, gifts, etc., when located within the passenger terminal building.
d.
Warehouses and storage buildings for air freight.
e.
Bulk storage of flammable liquids.
2.
Bulk storage of flammable liquids.
3.
Coal yards.
4.
Cold storage plants.
5.
Commercial laundries.
6.
Dental, optical and surgical goods manufacturing.
7.
Dry cleaning and carpet cleaning industries.
8.
Electricity generating plants and storage facilities.
9.
Electric and gas service buildings and storage yards.
10.
Electronics components assembly, including the manufacturing of computers.
11.
Food packaging and canning.
12.
Freight truck terminals, railroad storage facilities.
13.
Furniture manufacturing.
14.
Jewelry manufacturing.
15.
Junkyards and/or used auto parts yards.
16.
Laboratories, research and testing.
17.
Labor union hiring hall and offices.
18.
Manufacturing of household appliances.
19.
Open storage of sand, gravel, stone, lumber and other building materials. The storage area shall be completely enclosed with a solid masonry wall or chain link fence at least six feet in height.
20.
Patternmaking shop.
21.
Pharmaceutical products manufacturing.
22.
Printing and engraving; publishing.
23.
Processing of dairy products; milk bottling and distribution.
24.
Processing of grains, nutmeats, fruits, vegetables and other agricultural products.
25.
Public utility facilities, including storage yards.
26.
Salvage yards.
27.
Soda water and soft drink bottling establishments.
28.
Textile plant, clothes manufacturing.
29.
Toiletries and cosmetic manufacturing.
30.
Tool and dye shops. Machine shops. Motor vehicle repair shops.
31.
Truck stop, truck terminals.
32.
Vocational, technical or trade schools.
33.
Warehousing, wholesaling, storage and distribution centers.
34.
Wood/lumber treatment and processing plant.
35.
Wrecked motor vehicle compound.
(Ord. No. 2006-5, ยง 1, 10-24-06)
Section 17.03. - Special uses permitted after approval of the planning commission and county commission.
The following design standards shall apply in an M-1 district:
1.
Minimum lot width at the building line: 75 feet.
2.
Maximum height of building: 100 feet.
3.
Minimum setback requirements (measured from building line to property line):
a.
Front yard setback: 40 feet.
b.
Side yard setback: 20 feet.
c.
Rear yard setback: 20 feet.
4.
Protective screening: Where an M-1 zoning district directly adjoins a residential zoning district, or is located across a public alley from a residential zoning district, a landscaped greenbelt, at least 20 feet in width, shall be provided and maintained along the appropriate property line by the users of the M-1 property. Along the inner side of the greenbelt there shall be provided either:
1.
A building housing a permitted use, provided that it meets all of the setback requirements of these regulations, or
2.
An ornamental masonry wall or chain link fence at least six feet in height above grade to separate the greenbelt strip from the commercial or industrial activity which is permitted in the M-1 zoning district. The greenbelt shall be planted with deciduous trees, evergreens, or flowering trees that are a minimum of six feet in height at the time of planting, or with a hedge or with shrubs that are at least two feet in height at the time of planting. One tree shall be placed every 20 feet or fraction thereof along the respective property line. All landscaping shall be maintained in a healthy growing condition, and shall be neat and orderly in appearance. The 20-foot greenbelt shall not be used for off-street/road parking facilities, for loading spaces, for open storage of any item, or for any other commercial/industrial purpose. The greenbelt and wall or fencing may be interrupted only by driveways which may be required to provide necessary direct access to the lot.
5.
Maximum lot coverage:
a.
40 percent.
(Ord. No. 2006-5, ยง 1, 10-24-06)
[Section 17.04. - Reserved.]
Section 17.05. - Industrial performance standards.
The following standards shall apply in an M-1 district:
1.
Automatic screw machines. Automatic screw machines shall be permitted only when operated with noise silencers, and when located not less than 300 feet from any residential zoning district.
2.
Stamping machines, punch presses, and press brakes. Stamping machines, punch presses, and press brakes must be placed on shock absorbing mountings and on a suitable reinforced concrete footing. No machine shall be loaded beyond the capacity as prescribed by the manufacturer.
a.
For punch and stamp presses, other than hydraulic presses, up to 20 tons capacity is permitted when the machine is located at least 200 feet from the nearest residential zoning district.
b.
For hydraulic presses, up to 150 tons capacity is permitted when the machine is located at least 200 feet from nearest residential zoning district.
c.
All press brakes must be located at least 300 feet from the nearest residential zoning district.
3.
Hot forgings, steam or board hammers. Hot forgings, steam or board hammers are not permitted.
4.
Noise. Noise shall be muffled so as not to become objectionable due to intermittence, beat frequency, or shrillness.
5.
Odor. The emission of obnoxious odors of any kind is prohibited.
6.
Gases, smoke, dust, dirt, and fly ash. The emission of gases, smoke, dust, dirt, and fly ash shall in no manner be unclean, destructive, unhealthful, hazardous or deleterious to the general welfare. Such emission shall be in strict conformance with all applicable laws pertaining to air pollution and smoke abatement.
7.
Glare and heat. Glare and heat from arc welding, acetylene torch cutting or similar processes shall be performed behind solid walls or frosted glass not less than 15 feet high as measured from the ground level adjacent to the structure concerned.
(Ord. No. 2006-5, ยง 1, 10-24-06)
