Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances, resolutions and other enactments, embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated, the "Code of Ordinances, Colquitt County, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1981, § 1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners:
Board of commissioners. The words "board of commissioners" mean the board of commissioners of Colquitt County, Georgia.
Chairman, other officers. Whenever the word "chairman" is used, it means the chairman of the board of commissioners of Colquitt County. Whenever titles of various officers are used, they shall refer to the persons holding such positions with Colquitt County.
Code. The word "code" means this "Code of Ordinances, Colquitt County, Georgia," as designated in section 1-1.
Commissioner. The word "commissioner" means any person elected to that office.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted, but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday, as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; time, O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean Colquitt County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring a county officer or the head of a department of the county to do some act or make certain inspections it is to be construed to authorize a county officer or the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper and proprietor. The word "keeper" or "proprietor" means and includes the persons, firms, associations, corporations, receivers, trustees, personal representatives, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Land, real estate. The words "land" or "real estate" includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
Oath. The word "oath" includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The initials "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Officials or officers, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, i.e., "chairman of the board of commissioners," etc., they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions and departments of Colquitt County, Georgia, and their authorized agents, assistants and representatives.
Or, and. The word "or" may be read "and," and the word "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, or tenant in partnership, or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" extends and is applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The words "personal property" includes every species of property except real property.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. Whenever the word "premises" is used it shall mean place or places.
Property. The word "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned, and includes any place where the public is invited to go or congregate.
Real property. The words "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Seal. The word "seal" shall mean the county seal, the seal of the corporation.
Shall, may. The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. The "signature" or "subscription" of a person includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The words "state" or "the state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" means and includes streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the county.
Tenant, occupant. The words "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The word "week" shall be construed to mean seven days.
Written or in writing. The words "written" or "in writing" include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1981, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Construction of ordinances.
The same rules shall be applied in construing provisions of this Code, and ordinances and resolutions of this county, as are applied in construing the statutes of this state, which rules are found in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1, and the same meanings are to be given words found in the ordinances as are given similar words found in the statutes of this state.
(Code 1981, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-4. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the county.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any county officer or employee.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the county.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the county.
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
Sec. 1-5. - Applicability of Code.
The provisions of this Code, unless otherwise clearly specified, shall apply only in the unincorporated areas of the county.
Sec. 1-6. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances and resolutions.
The provisions appearing in this Code, as far as they are the same as those ordinances and resolutions existing at the time of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-7. - Catchlines of sections; notes and references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of such sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 1981, § 1-3)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-8. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances.
(a)
All ordinances and resolutions passed subsequent to the passage of the ordinances originally included in this Code which amend, repeal, or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances or resolutions, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code by the board of commissioners of the county.
(b)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(c)
The enactment of a resolution or ordinance, in the absence of language to the contrary, shall not repeal any resolution or ordinance theretofore passed dealing with the same matter, except where in direct conflict therewith.
(d)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, Colquitt County, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(e)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Ordinances, Colquitt County, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which said section reads as follows:…." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(Code 1981, § 1-8)
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
On or before January 15 of each year, the county clerk shall prepare a compilation of all resolutions, ordinances or other provisions enacted during the previous year which may amend, repeal, modify or supplement provisions of the county Code.
(b)
By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared on at least an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the board of commissioners of the county during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(c)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(d)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the county to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the board of commissioners of the county, which will cause the law of the county to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1981, § 1-9)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-11. - General penalty.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the county any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of an act is required or the failure to do an act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 or 60 days imprisonment, or both, except as otherwise provided by general law. The fines imposed therefor may be collected by execution.
(b)
Each day any violation of this Code shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
In addition to the penalties hereinabove provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance, and may be abated by the county as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Code 1981, § 1-10)
State Law reference— Violation of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.; additional penalty to be imposed in criminal and traffic cases to provide training to law enforcement officers and prosecuting officials, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; maximum punishments which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b).
Sec. 1-12. - Liability for violations by corporations and other associations.
(a)
Any violation of this Code by any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization, while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall in every case also be deemed to be a violation by such corporation, association or organization.
(b)
Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and liable to punishment as well as such corporation or unincorporated association or organization for the violation by it of any provisions of this Code, where such violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order, of any such person.
Sec. 1-13. - Additional penalties; jail fund; depositing of money in funds.
(a)
In every case in which any court in this county, including any court of a municipality which has entered into the intergovernmental contract as provided for in this section, shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of this state or any offense against a county or municipal ordinance, there shall be imposed as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten percent of the original fine.
(b)
At the time of posting bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of this state or a violation of a county or municipal ordinance, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted. In every case in which any court of this county, including any court of a municipality which has entered into the intergovernmental contract as provided for in this section, shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, the additional sum equal to ten percent of the original bail or bond shall be collected.
(c)
The additional penalties set forth in this section shall be in addition to that amount required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be paid into the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund, by O.C.G.A. § 47-11-51 to be paid into the Judges of the Probate Courts Retirement Fund of Georgia, or by any other provision of law.
(d)
The additional penalties as prescribed in this section shall be assessed and collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the duty of collecting monies arising from fines and forfeited bonds. Such additional penalties shall be paid over to the board of commissioners by the tenth day of each month following the month in which these sums are collected.
(e)
All such sums collected and paid over to the board of county commissioners shall be deposited into a special account which shall be known as the "county jail fund."
(f)
All moneys collected pursuant to this section and placed in the county jail fund shall be expended solely and exclusively for constructing, operating, and staffing the county correctional facilities, or for such other purposes as specified in O.C.G.A. § 15-21-95.
(g)
The additional penalties provided for by this section shall not be imposed or collected in any court operated by any municipality located in the county, unless the municipality and the county enter into an intergovernmental contract providing for use of the county jail, correctional institution, or detention facility by municipal prisoners.
(Res. of 2-5-91)
State Law reference— Additional penalty assessments for jail construction and staffing, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93; county responsibility for sentencing and maintenance of inmates, O.C.G.A. § 42-5-51(a).
Sec. 1-14. - Effective date of ordinances and resolutions.
Ordinances and resolutions which do not provide for their taking effect at a different time, take effect immediately after their passage, or as otherwise provided by law.
(Code 1981, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-15. - Effect of repeal of ordinances and resolutions.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not revive any ordinances or resolutions in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance or resolution repealed.
(Code 1981, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-16. - Severability.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the board of commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the board of commissioners without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1981, § 1-7)
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
