ARTICLE VI. - STATE COURT OF COLQUITT COUNTY[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1931 Ga. Laws, page 293, which provides for the court set forth in this article. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— State courts of counties, O.C.G.A. § 15-7-1 et seq.

Sec. 1. - Created, location, jurisdiction.
The State Court of Colquitt County is hereby created and established, to be located in the City of Moultrie, which is the county site of Colquitt County, which court shall have civil and criminal jurisdiction over and throughout the entire County of Colquitt, concurrent with the superior court, to try and dispose of civil cases of whatever nature, except those of which the Constitution of this State has given the superior courts exclusive jurisdiction; and to try and dispose of all offenses below the grade of felonies committed in the County of Colquitt; and the jurisdiction herein conferred shall include, in addition to ordinary suits by petition and process, attachment and garnishment proceedings, habeas corpus proceedings, illegalities, statutory awards, counter-affidavits to any proceeding from said court, proceedings against intruders and tenants holding over, proceedings for partition of personalty, distress warrants, possessory warrants, and foreclosure of all liens, mortgages, and bills of sales to secure debt, except those on real estate: Provided, however, that said state court shall not have jurisdiction in civil cases where the principal amount is less than fifty dollars ($50.00), except in cases of which the justice courts do not have jurisdiction.
(1968 Ga. Laws, p. 2139, § 1)
Sec. 2. - Judgments to be liens; executions.
All judgments obtained in said court shall be a lien on all property of the defendant or defendants throughout the state, in the same manner as judgments of the superior courts are, and all executions issuing from said state court shall be tested in the name of the judge and signed by the clerk and directed to the sheriff or his deputies of the said State Court of Colquitt County, and to all and singular the sheriffs or their deputies of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 3. - Claim cases.
Said court shall have jurisdiction of all claim cases where personal property is levied on under execution or other process from said court, and such claims shall be tried in the same manner as claims in the superior courts; but claims to real property levied on under execution or other process from said state court shall be returnable to the superior court of the county where such real property is situated, and shall there proceed as other claims in the superior court.
Sec. 4. - Terms of court.
The terms of said state court shall be monthly and quarterly, the monthly terms for the trial and disposition of both criminal and civil business in which trial by jury is not demanded, and the quarterly terms for the trial and disposition of both civil and criminal business requiring trial by jury. The said quarterly terms shall be held as follows: beginning on the first Monday in November next after the passage of this Act, and thereafter quarterly on the first Mondays in February, May, August, and November of each year. The said monthly terms shall be held as follows: on the first Mondays in next September, October and December, and thereafter on the first Mondays in January, March, April, June, July, September, October and December of each year; provided, that the judge of said state court may dispense with the holding of any one or more of said monthly terms, when, in his opinion, the business before the court does not justify holding the same; and provided further, that said court shall at all times be open for the purpose of receiving pleas of guilty in criminal cases and passing sentence thereon. All terms of said court shall be held at the court-house in the City of Moultrie, in said County of Colquitt, and shall last until the business is disposed of, unless sooner adjourned for good cause. The judge of said court may hold adjourned terms of the regular monthly and quarterly terms of said city court; and the judge may also, in his discretion, set cases for trial at convenient times, and the same may then be tried as of the term, whether court has been held from day to day until said time or not.
Sec. 5. - Procedure and process generally.
Suits in said state court shall in all respects be conformable to the mode of proceedings in the superior court, except as hereinafter provided; but the process to writs shall be annexed by the clerk of said state court, be tested in the name of the judge thereof, and be directed to and served by the sheriff of the State Court of Colquitt County, or his deputies thereof.
Sec. 6. - Pleading and practice generally.
In all matters pertaining to service, pleadings and practice, the laws governing the superior courts, where not inconsistent with this Act [article] and unless otherwise specially provided by this Act [article], shall be applicable to said state court.
Sec. 7. - Court of record, seal, clerk, etc.
Said State Court of Colquitt County shall be a court of record, shall have a seal, and the minutes, records, orders, and books and files that are required by law and rules to be kept for the superior courts shall be kept in and for said state court and in the same manner; and all laws applicable to the powers and duties of the clerk and sheriff in said superior courts shall apply to them in said state court, except where they conflict with the provisions of this Act [article].
Sec. 8. - Laws regulating superior court to govern judgments and executions.
All laws for the regulating and enforcing of judgments of the superior courts, whether civil or criminal, shall apply to said state court, and executions shall issue and be levied and sales be had thereunder under the same rules and laws regulating the same in the superior courts.
Sec. 9. - Bailiffs and power of judge to enforce orders, issue contempt citations, etc.
The judge of said state court is authorized to appoint, at each term of said court, such number of bailiffs as he may deem necessary; and the judge of said court shall have the same power to preserve order, to enforce his orders and judgments, and to punish for contempt as is vested by law in the judges of the superior courts of this state.
Sec. 10. - Election of judge, salary, practice of law.
There shall be a judge of said state court, who shall hold office for a term of four (4) years, and until his successor shall qualify. Except in the case of a vacancy, the judge of said state court shall hold office by virtue of an election by the qualified voters of Colquitt County. Any vacancy in said office shall be filled by appointment by the Governor by and with the advice and consent of the Senate for the unexpired term. The next election of said judge shall be held at the same time and along with the election for county officers to be held in 1944 and thereafter the election of said judge shall be held at the same time and along with the election for county officers held every four (4) years. The present judge of said court shall hold office until January 1, 1945 and until his successor is elected and qualified. The judge of said state court shall receive a salary of not less than $6,000.00 and not more than $15,000.00 per annum to be set by the county commissioners, which shall be paid monthly by the treasurer or other persons who are now and may hereafter be charged by law with the paying out of the money of the County of Colquitt; and it shall be the duty of the [Board of] Commissioners of said county, or other proper officer, to make provision annually in levying taxes for this purpose. The said judge shall receive no other compensation, but shall not be disqualified to practice law in courts other than his own.
(1939 Ga. Laws, p. 455, § 1; 1941 Ga. Laws, p. 641, § 1; 1950 Ga. Laws, p. 2029, § 1; 1957 Ga. Laws, p. 2152, § 1; 1962 Ga. Laws, p. 2413, § 1; 1971 Ga. Laws, p. 3081, § 1; 1979 Ga. Laws, p. 3191, § 1; 1985 Ga. Laws, p. 4227, § 1)
Sec. 11. - Qualifications of judge; oath.
No person shall be eligible for the office of said judge unless he shall possess the qualifications prescribed by law for judges of the superior courts of this state; and he shall, before entering upon the duties of his office, take and subscribe the following oath:
"I solemnly swear that I will administer justice without respect to persons, and do equal right to the rich and poor, and that I will faithfully and impartially perform and discharge all the duties which may be required of me as judge of the State Court of Colquitt County, according to the best of my ability and understanding, agreeably to the laws and Constitution of this State and the Constitution of the United States, so help me God,"
which oath shall be filed in the executive department.
Sec. 11.1. - Right of judge to practice law.
After the effective date of this Act [1979 Ga. Laws, No. 91], the Judge of the State Court of Colquitt County may practice law in any of the courts of this State or of the United States, except in the State Court of Colquitt County and except in any appeal from a judgment of said State Court. The Judge may practice law in partnership with other attorneys, provided such other attorneys do not practice law in the State Court of Colquitt County while their partner is a Judge of the State Court.
(1979 Ga. Laws, p. 3191, § 3)
Sec. 12. - Judge pro hac vice.
Whenever the judge of said state court is from any cause disqualified from presiding, and the judge of the superior court cannot from any cause preside in said court, as is provided for in the Constitution, then upon the consent of the parties, or upon their failure or refusal to agree, said cause shall be tried by a judge pro hac vice selected in the same manner as now provided for in the superior courts.
Sec. 13. - Adjournment in absence of judge.
In case of the absence of the judge of said state court at any term thereof, the sheriff or clerk of said court may adjourn it to such time as the judge may in writing direct, or, if no direction be given, the court shall be adjourned to the next regular term.
Sec. 14. - Solicitor generally.
There shall be a solicitor of said state court who shall be elected in the same manner at the same time and for the same term as is provided for the election of the judge of said court. The present solicitor shall hold office until the first day of January, 1945, and until his successor is elected and qualified. Any vacancy in said office shall be filled by appointment by the Governor by and with the consent and advice of the Senate for the unexpired term. It shall be the duty of said solicitor to prosecute for all offenses cognizable before said court. The said solicitor shall receive the same fees for each written accusation as are allowed for each indictment in the superior court, and his fees for all other services rendered shall be the same as those of the solicitor-general in the superior court; but all such fees shall be paid into the county treasury by said solicitor as collected, and in lieu thereof he shall receive a salary of not less than $6,000.00 and not more than $15,000.00, per annum, to be set by the county commissioners, which shall be paid monthly by the treasurer or other persons who are now or may hereafter be charged by law with the paying out of the money of the County of Colquitt; and it shall be the duty of the [Board of] Commissioners of said county, or other proper officer, to make provision annually in levying taxes for this purpose. The said solicitor shall receive no other fees or compensation for his services except that he shall for his services in the Supreme Court and Court of Appeals be paid out of the treasury of the State in the same manner as the solicitor-general of the superior court is paid for like services rendered in the Supreme Court and Court of Appeals.
(1939 Ga. Laws, p. 455, § 2; 1941 Ga. Laws, p. 641, § 2; 1950 Ga. Laws, p. 2029, § 2; 1957 Ga. Laws, p. 2151, § 2; 1979 Ga. Laws, p. 3191, § 2; 1985 Ga. Laws, p. 4227, § 2)
Sec. 15. - Qualifications and oath of solicitor.
No person shall be eligible to the office of solicitor of said state court unless he shall possess the qualifications prescribed by law for solicitors-general of the superior courts of this state; and he shall, before entering upon the duties of his office, take and subscribe the following oath:
"I do swear that I will faithfully and impartially, and without fear, favor, or affection, discharge my duties as solicitor of the State Court of Colquitt County, and will take only my lawful fees of office; so help me God,"
which shall be filed in the Executive Department.
Sec. 15.1. - Right of solicitor to practice law.
After the effective date of this Act [1979 Ga. Laws, No. 91], the Solicitor of the State Court of Colquitt County may practice law in any of the courts of this State or of the United States, except in the State Court of Colquitt County and except in any appeal from a judgment of said State Court. The Solicitor may practice law in partnership with other attorneys, provided such other attorneys do not practice law in the State Court of Colquitt County while their partner is a Solicitor of the State Court.
(1979 Ga. Laws, p. 3191, § 4)
Sec. 16. - Solicitor pro tem.
In case of the absence of said solicitor or his inability from illness or otherwise to appear and prosecute any cause at any term of said court, the judge of said court may appoint a solicitor pro tempore to perform the duties of the solicitor in such absence or inability, and such solicitor pro tempore shall be entitled to receive for his services, should he require it, not exceeding ten dollars ($10.00) per day to be paid by the solicitor out of his compensation provided for in section 14 of this Act [article].
Sec. 17. - Clerk of superior court to be clerk.
The clerk and his deputies of the Superior Court of Colquitt County shall be ex-officio clerk and deputies of said state court. Said clerk shall, before entering upon the duties of his office, take and subscribe an oath to faithfully and impartially discharge the duties thereof, which oath shall be entered on the book of minutes of said state court; and he shall also, before entering on the duties of his office, execute a bond security, to be approved by the judge of said court, in the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for the faithful discharge of the duties of his office, such bond to be in the form required for clerks of the superior court.
(1965 Ga. Laws, p. 2596)
Sec. 18. - Sheriff to be court's sheriff; bond.
The sheriff and his deputies of Colquitt County shall be ex-officio sheriff and deputy sheriffs of the State Court of Colquitt County, and in his official connection with said court the Sheriff of Colquitt County shall be known as the Sheriff of the State Court of Colquitt County; and, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of his office, said sheriff shall execute a bond with good security in the sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for the faithful discharge of the duties of his office, said bonds to be approved by the judge of said court.
Sec. 19. - Duties of clerk and sheriff.
All the duties and liabilities attached to the office of Clerk of the Superior Court and to the office of sheriff shall be attached to the office of Clerk of the State Court of Colquitt County and to the office of sheriff of the Clay Court of Colquitt County, respectively; and the judge of said State Court of Colquitt County is empowered to enforce the same authority over the said clerk and sheriff and their deputies as is exercised by the judges of the superior courts over the clerks of the superior courts and over the sheriffs of the counties of Georgia.
Sec. 20. - Fees of clerk and sheriff.
The clerk and sheriff, and their deputies, of said state court shall receive for their services the same fees as are allowed by law for like services in the superior court, except that in all civil actions where the principal amount claimed is less than three hundred dollars ($300.00), the clerk's costs shall be one-half the amount allowed for similar services in similar cases in the superior court; and provided, that neither the said clerk nor the said sheriff shall be entitled to any per diem fees for attending the monthly terms of said court when there is no jury empaneled for the trial of cases, such clerk and sheriff being entitled to per diem fees for attendance at the regular quarterly trial terms only. For services rendered by the clerk and sheriff where no compensation is provided by law, they shall receive such compensation as the judge of said state court shall in his sound discretion allow. The said sheriff and clerk shall be amenable to the same processes and penalties as they are now amenable to as officers of the superior court, and they shall be entitled to the same remedies to enforce the collection of their fees and costs in said state court as they are now or may hereafter be entitled to in the superior court. In all actions ex contractu where the amount of the judgment recovered is less than fifty dollars ($50.00) principal, the plaintiff shall only be entitled to recover judgment for justice court costs, and such plaintiff shall himself be liable for the balance of the costs in such case.
Sec. 21. - Court stenographer.
A reporter or stenographer for said state court may be appointed by the judge of said court, to take down and transcribe testimony and charges of the court in criminal and civil cases tried therein. All civil cases tried in said court shall be reported at the request of either side, plaintiff or defendant, and the fees for reporting such cases shall be the same as those allowed and charged in similar cases in the superior court, and shall be paid by the plaintiff and defendant equally. Said reporter or stenographer shall have the right to enforce payment of his fees in the same manner authorized in like cases in the superior courts. The reporter or stenographer shall report all criminal cases whenever the defendant or his attorney shall demand it, and whenever the judge in his discretion shall require the same reported, whether demanded or not. Said reporter or stenographer shall receive, for his services in reporting and transcribing the record in criminal cases in said state court, the same amount provided by law for similar services by stenographers in the superior courts, which shall be paid out of the treasury of the county in the same manner that the superior court stenographers are paid.
Sec. 22. - Manner of drawing jurors; exemptions.
It shall be the duty of the clerk of said state court to prepare and file in his office a complete copy of the traverse-jury list of the Superior Court of Colquitt County, as provided for from time to time for such superior court. From said copy so made traverse jurors in said state court shall be drawn in the following manner: The clerk of said state court shall write upon separate tickets or slips of paper the names of each traverse juror, and shall number the same and place the same in a box to be prepared and kept for that purpose, from which box shall be drawn all traverse jurors as now required by law in the superior courts. All laws with reference to drawing, selecting, and summoning traverse and tales traverse jurors in the superior courts shall apply in said state court. All exemption from jury duty now of force in the County of Colquitt shall apply and be of effect in said state court.
Sec. 23. - State law to govern empaneling and challenging jurors.
All laws in reference to the qualifications, relations, empaneling, fining, and challenging of jurors now in force in this state, or hereafter enacted by the General Assembly, regulating the same in the superior courts, shall apply to and be observed in said state court, except when inconsistent with the provisions of this Act [article].
Sec. 24. - When jurors to be drawn.
Unless, in the opinion of the judge, the business of the court demands it, traverse jurors shall be drawn and summoned to serve only at the regular quarterly terms of said court and at the adjourned quarterly terms thereof.
Sec. 25. - Civil jury, criminal jury, peremptory challenges.
From a panel of twenty-four (24) traverse jurors drawn and summoned by the provisions of this Act [article], to serve at any regular or adjourned term of said court, the judge of said court shall cause to be made up two (2) juries, which shall be known and distinguished as juries numbers one (1) and two (2), and all cases and issues to be tried by jury, civil or criminal, at that term of said court, shall be tried by one of these, or by a jury stricken from both, as hereinbefore provided. In case from any cause said panel should be reduced below twenty-four (24), the judge of said court shall have power to fill it by causing talesmen to be summoned instanter. In criminal cases tried in said court, the defendant shall be entitled to seven (7) peremptory challenges and the state five (5), and in all civil cases the plaintiff and defendant shall each be entitled to six (6) peremptory challenges; and all laws and rules, both civil and criminal, regulating the selection of juries in the superior court, shall apply to said civil and criminal court, except where they are inconsistent with the terms of this Act [article].
Sec. 26. - Size of jury.
In the trial of all cases, civil and criminal, except when written demand is made for trial by a jury of twelve (12), it shall be the practice in said state court to try all cases before a jury of six (6), to be selected in the following manner: In the trial of all criminal cases the jury shall be stricken from a jury-list of twelve (12) jurors, the defendant being entitled to four (4) peremptory challenges and the state two (2), and in the trial of all civil cases the jury shall be stricken from a jury-list of twelve (12) jurors, the plaintiff and the defendant being entitled to three (3) peremptory challenges each; and the said jury-lists provided for in this section shall be made up from the traverse jurors duly drawn and summoned to serve at such term and also from such talesmen as the judge may find it necessary to summon instanter; Provided always, that the accused in any criminal case may make a written demand for a trial by a jury of twelve (12) jurors, which written demand may be presented to the judge at the time of or before pleading to the indictment or accusation; and when such written demand is so made and presented, the accused shall be tried by a jury of twelve (12) jurors chosen and selected in the same manner as in like cases in the superior court; and all civil cases, when either party, plaintiff or defendant, desires a trial by a jury of twelve (12), such party shall make written demand therefor, which written demand may be made and filed with the clerk at any time not less than five (5) days before the first day of the trial term next after issue is formed, and when such written demand shall be made and filed as aforesaid, the case shall be tried by a jury of twelve (12) jurors chosen and selected in the same manner as in like cases in the superior court.
Sec. 27. - Criminal accusations.
All defendants in criminal cases in which the prosecution originates in said state court, or where such defendants are bound over to said state court by any justice of the peace or notary public or other judicial officer, shall be tried on written accusations setting forth plainly the offense charged, founded upon affidavit of the accuser and signed by the solicitor of state court; and all the proceedings after accusation shall conform to the rules governing in the superior courts, except that the accused shall be tried by a jury of six (6) as in this Act [article] provided, unless such accused makes demand for trial by a jury of twelve (12) as hereinbefore provided. And in all cases tried upon accusations the offense shall be charged with the same particularity both as matter of form and substance as is required by the laws and rules of criminal pleading to be observed in bills of indictment in the superior courts.
Sec. 28. - New trials.
The judge of said state court shall have power to grant a new trial in any case, civil or criminal, in his court, upon the same terms and conditions and under the same laws and regulations governing the granting of new trials in the superior courts; and all rules of pleading, practice, and procedure, governing motions, rules nisi and other proceedings in new trials in the superior courts, shall apply to and govern the same in said state court.
Sec. 29. - Writs of error.
Writs of error shall be directed from said state court to the Supreme Court and Court of Appeals of this state upon bills of exceptions filed under the same rules and regulations as govern and control the issue of writs of error and filing of bills of exceptions in the superior courts of this state.
Sec. 30. - Transfer of indictments from superior court.
The judge of the superior court may send down from the Superior Court of Colquitt County all presentments and bills of indictment for misdemeanors to said civil and criminal court for trial or other disposition, the order so transmitting such cases to be entered on the minutes of both of said courts.
Sec. 31. - When suits and process to be returned.
All suits by petition and process shall be made returnable to the next term of said court, whether the same is a monthly or a quarterly term, provided such suit is filed in the clerk's office not less than twenty (20) days before the first day of said term; and when the petition is filed on a date less than twenty (20) days before the first day of said term, the process shall be made returnable to the next succeeding term thereafter, whether monthly or quarterly, which shall be the appearance term. And whenever process is not served the length of time required by law before the appearance term, such service shall be good for the next succeeding term thereafter, whether it be a monthly or a quarterly term.
Sec. 32. - Call of appearance docket; defaults.
In all cases, the judge at each term, monthly and quarterly, shall call the appearance docket upon some day previously fixed, or on the last day of the term, and, upon such call, all cases in which the defendant has not filed a demurrer, plea, answer, or other defense shall be marked "In default;" and in all such default cases, except such as may be founded upon unliquidated claims or demands, the judge shall thereupon at said appearance term render judgment without the verdict of a jury; and in all default cases founded upon unliquidated claims or demands, the judge shall, at the request of the plaintiff, hear evidence of value or loss and fix the same, and the judge shall thereupon render judgment without the verdict of a jury.
Sec. 33. - Laws as to superior court to apply.
Except as otherwise provided in this Act [article], all laws and rules that are now or may hereafter be in force in the superior courts of this state, in regard to appearance and pleading, calling the appearance docket, entering and opening defaults, motions, services, waivers, acknowledgments, pleadings, trials, examination of witnesses, conduct of cases, instructions to juries, rules of evidence, answers, amendments, demurrers, pleas, procedure and practice, legal remedies, the production of books, papers, etc., shall appertain in said state court.
Sec. 34. - Compensation of jurors.
All jurors in said state court, for their services for every day of actual attendance, shall be paid the same amount in the same manner and under the same rules and regulations as jurors in the Superior Court of Colquitt County.
Sec. 35. - Special provisions for joint obligors, joint promisors or copartners.
All suits against joint obligors, joint promisors, copartners, or joint trespassers, in which any one or more resides in the County of Colquitt, may be brought in said state court within its jurisdiction as already stated, under the same rules and regulations governing such cases in the superior courts mutatis mutandis as to copies, second originals, returns, and other matters connected with the suit.
Sec. 36. - Power of judge to take testimony de bene esse, attest deeds, etc.
The judge of said state court shall have power to cause testimony to be taken and used de bene esse, and for the purpose of perpetuating testimony within his jurisdiction in all cases according to the general laws of the state, and the judge and all other officers of said state court shall have power, respectively, to administer oaths pertaining to their office, as the judge and other officers of the superior court may in like cases do; and the said judge shall also have power to attest deeds and other papers and administer affidavits in all cases anywhere in the state in which by existing laws such papers may be attested and affidavits administered by the justices of the peace of this state, and the judge of said state court shall have all the powers and authority throughout his jurisdiction of judges of the superior courts, and all laws relating to and governing judges of the superior courts shall apply to the judge of said state court so far as the same may be applicable, except as herein otherwise provided.
Sec. 37. - Attachments and garnishments.
Attachments and garnishments in said court or returnable to said court shall be directed to the sheriff or his deputies of the State Court of Colquitt County and to all and singular the sheriffs and constables of this state; and the judge of said state court may, or any justice of the peace or notary public may, issue attachments and garnishments returnable to said state court under the same laws that govern the issuing of attachments and garnishments returnable to the superior courts.
Sec. 38. - Courtroom, stationery, etc.
The [board of] commissioners of Colquitt County shall provide a suitable place in the county court-house for the holding of said state court, provide the judge of said court with suitable office in said court-house, provide the court with such stationery, writing materials, and blank accusations as may be required, and provide the necessary books for keeping the dockets, minutes, and records of said court.
Sec. 39. - Fines and forfeitures.
All fines and forfeitures arising from cases tried in said state court, except the proportions due the solicitor, which shall be paid into the county treasurer as provided for under section 14 of this Act [article], shall be subject to the payment of the fees and costs of the clerk and sheriff of said court, the same to be distributed pro rata under the same rules and regulations governing the fees of said officers as now provided by law; provided that in all cases in which the justices of the peace and ex-officio justices of the peace have bound over any offender to said court, or to the superior court and the case is afterwards transferred to said state court, such magistrate binding over shall be entitled to share as to his costs in the particular case with the officers of said state court hereinbefore named, upon the same terms in any fine or forfeiture that may arise therefrom; provided further that the County of Colquitt shall not be liable to the said officers of said court, to wit, the clerk, sheriff, justices of the peace and ex-officio justices of the peace, for insolvent costs in any criminal case except the costs in the cases where the convicted defendants are used or hired out by the county authorities, in which event the county authorities shall pay to the officers above named the costs in such cases. The clerk of said state court is hereby charged with the duty of collecting, receiving, and prorating the fines and forfeitures mentioned herein, and it shall be his duty to keep such records thereof as are required to be kept in the superior court, and he shall faithfully account for all monies so received.
