DIVISION 2. - REUSE WATER SYSTEM[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 07-7-6, §§1—28, adopted Aug. 6, 2007, did not specifically amend the Code; hence, inclusion herein as Div. 2, §§ 14-101—14-128, was at the discretion of the editor. See also the Code Comparative Table.

Sec. 14-101. - Purpose, intent and declaration of utility.
This division sets forth the requirements for the reuse water system for the City of Dawsonville, Georgia, hereafter referred to as the city. The reuse water system provides an alternative water source for non-potable water demands. It is the city's policy to provide reuse water to the appropriate non-potable demands to limit the growth in requirements for potable water. The objectives of this division are:
(1)
To reduce the potable water demand and extend the life of the existing raw water supplies; and
(2)
To protect the environment by reducing surface water discharges from the city's current treatment facilities.
The city hereby declares and establishes a reuse water utility. The city shall be the exclusive provider of reuse water within the city limits or such larger service area as may be established for the city outside of the city limits by intergovernmental agreement, service delivery strategy agreement or otherwise, whichever is greater. The city shall charge such fees for applications, meters, installation and reuse water use as may be determined by resolution of the mayor and council from time to time based upon the cost to the city for the reuse water utility including, but not limited to, capital, infrastructure, administrative, and operational costs. This division shall apply to all users of the city's water and sewer system.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 1, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-102. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Authorized representative of the reclaimed water user shall mean:
(1)
If user is a corporation, authorized representative shall mean the president, secretary, or a vice-president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation.
(2)
If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship, an authorized representative shall mean a general partner or the proprietor, respectively.
(3)
If the user is a federal, state or local government facility, an authorized representative shall mean a director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
(4)
The entities described in subsections (1) and (2) above may designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the written authorization is submitted to the city.
Consumer shall mean any person, firm, or corporation responsible for any property at which reuse water from the city public reuse water system is received. In the absence of other parties or the failure of other parties to accept the responsibilities herein set forth, the owner of record shall be ultimately responsible.
Cross-connection shall mean any physical connection whereby the public water supply is connected with any other water supply system, whether public or private, either inside or outside of any building or buildings, in such a manner that a flow of water into the public water supply is possible either through the manipulation of valves or because of ineffective check or back-pressure valves, or because of any other arrangement.
Dedicators shall mean and include the person owning or constructing any private utility system being dedicated to the city.
Major reuse water shall mean those reuse water lines which are 12 inches in diameter or greater.
Permit shall mean an individual user permit issued by the city, to operate an on-site reclaimed water facility.
Reclaimed water shall have the same meaning as reuse water.
Reuse water shall mean wastewater that has been treated to water quality standards as defined by the applicable sections of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated and the Georgia Administrative Code, and is intended to be distributed for further use.
Reuse water service stubs shall mean those portions of the reuse water service pipes that connect to the city's reuse water mains and extend to the boundaries of public easements and rights-of-way.
Tap size shall mean the nominal diameter of the connection of the reuse water line installed between a reuse water meter assembly and the reuse water main connected to the reuse water utility system of the city without regard to the configuration of that reuse water assembly or ownership of the reuse water meter assembly or reuse water main.
Utility system or utility lines shall mean and include reuse water pipe lines, water pipe lines, and sewer pipe lines (any or all as determined by the context), and shall include all pipes, valves, valve boxes, hydrants, and other fixtures, equipment, and apparatus connected to and forming a part of the main reuse water, main water, or sewer pipe lines and systems or all, and all appliances necessary and convenient thereto. The utility lines dedicated to the city shall include only main distribution lines, valves, hydrants and other apparatus, fixtures and equipment forming a part of the lines laid in public streets, roads, highways and alleys or across city utility or sanitary sewer easements on private property, and shall not include lines leading from mains to building connections on private property and shall not include the reuse water, water, or sewer lines within any residences or other privately owned building.
Waters of the state shall mean any stream, river, brook, swamp, lake, sound tidal estuary, bay, creek, reservoir, waterway or other body or accumulation of water, whether surface or underground, public or private, or natural or artificial, that is contained in, flows through, or borders upon any portion of the State of Georgia.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 2, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-103. - Reuse water permit.
(a)
All reclaimed water users shall obtain a user permit prior to the commencement of reclaimed water use. Users shall make application for initial installation, use, change of use and change of property ownership.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to connect to or use reuse water without first obtaining a reuse water user permit and installing a reuse water meter from the city.
(c)
The reuse water permit holder shall be responsible for payment of all application, meter and use fees associated with the issued reuse water meter.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 3, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-104. - Allowable uses of reuse water.
Reuse water shall only be applied for approved uses. Where a use is not specifically indicated as being pre-approved, the director shall make a determination if the proposed use is acceptable. The following uses, unless otherwise prohibited, may be approved:
(1)
Landscape irrigation.
(2)
Agricultural irrigation for crops not intended for human consumption.
(3)
Decorative ponds and fountains.
(4)
Dust control.
(5)
Soil compaction.
(6)
Vehicle washing if the reuse water is either recaptured or is applied without a spray.
(7)
Street cleaning (vacuum-type cleaners only).
(8)
Cooling tower and boiler makeup water.
(9)
Urinal and toilet flushing.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 4, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-105. - Mandatory uses of reuse water.
Where reuse water is available to a property, all new landscape irrigation systems shall utilize reuse water.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 5, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-106. - Prohibited uses of reuse water.
It shall be unlawful for reuse water to be used in the following applications:
(1)
Human consumption.
(2)
Irrigation of direct food chain crops.
(3)
Swimming pools, hot tubs, spas, or similar uses.
(4)
Direct reuse as raw potable water supply.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 6, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-107. - Buffers and runoff.
(a)
Irrigation systems using reuse water shall be designed keep all spray on the property and to maintain the following buffers from the edge of the spray influence:
(1)
Twenty-five feet from surface waters including intermittent streams, perennial streams, perennial water bodies and wetlands.
(2)
One hundred feet from any well except monitoring wells.
(3)
Twenty-five feet between reuse water storage/irrigation ponds and property lines.
(b)
Irrigation and other systems using reuse water shall not generate runoff. that flows into the natural waterways or into the buffer areas. Runoff shall not enter a storm sewer or drainage ditch that connects to waters of the state.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 7, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-108. - Administrative programs.
The public utilities director shall have the authority to implement administrative programs that may be required to adhere to federal or state law, adhere to the conditions of any permits from federal or state agencies, or provide efficient operation of the reuse system. Such programs may include, but are not limited to, an application program to approve new users, a connection inspection program, follow-up inspection program, compliance and enforcement program, spill prevention, control, and notification program, and educational program to advise the public of the proper and safe use of reuse water.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 8, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-109. - Notification.
(a)
For areas accessible to the public, notification shall be provided to inform the public of the use of reuse water and that reuse water is not intended for drinking. Signs will be provided indicating "Reuse water: Do not drink."
(b)
In industrial and commercial systems, notification shall be provided to inform employees that reuse water is being used and that it is not intended for drinking. Training on the proper handling of reuse water shall be provided to employees required to be in direct contact with reuse systems. Systems in areas of public access shall be marked to identify the source of the water as being reuse water.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 9, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-110. - Labeling and color-coding.
(a)
All reuse water valves, storage facilities and outlets shall be tagged or labeled to warn the public or employees that the water is not intended for drinking.
(b)
All reuse water piping and other appurtenances shall be color-coded purple. Such piping and appurtenances shall also be taped or otherwise marked to identify the source of the water as being reuse water.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 10, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-111. - Hose bibbs spigots or other hand-operated connections.
Above ground hose bibbs spigots or other hand-operated connections are not allowed with reuse water systems. Hose bibbs spigots or other hand-operated connections shall be installed in lockable below-grade vaults clearly labeled as reuse water. Alternatively, hose bibbs spigots or other hand-operated connections that can only be operated by a special tool can be installed in non-lockable, below-grade service boxes clearly labeled as reuse water.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 11, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-112. - Storage containers and transport vehicles.
Storage containers, including tank trucks that come into contact with reuse water, shall not be used to store or transport potable water that is used for drinking or other potable purposes. The containers and trucks shall be clearly labeled "Reuse water: Do not drink." The containers shall not be filled through on-board piping or removable hoses that may subsequently be used to fill tanks with water from a potable water supply.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 12, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-113. - Cross connection.
There shall be no direct cross-connections between the reuse water system and any potable water system, unless specifically authorized by the director. Where both potable and reuse water systems serve the same property, the potable water connection shall be provided with an approved backflow prevention device or an air gap separation.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 13, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-114. - Payment of fees and charges.
Any person connecting, installing or using the reuse water system shall pay all required permits, fees, and charges as required by laws, ordinances, and resolutions.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 14, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-115. - New or replacement reuse water systems to be flood resistant.
Any and all new or replacement reuse water supply systems within flood-prone areas shall be designed and constructed to minimize and eliminate discharges from such systems into floodwaters.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 15, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-116. - Access to and obstructions of manholes and easements.
(a)
No person shall open, enter into, place, or allow anything to be placed in a manhole, vault, or valve box of the city's reuse water system without written approval from the director of public utilities or his designee.
(b)
No person shall damage, obstruct, or cover a manhole, vault, or valve box of the city's reuse water system.
(c)
No person shall plant trees, shrubs, or other plants within a reuse water easement without prior written approval from the director of the public utilities department.
(d)
No person shall place any part of a structure or any permanent equipment within a reuse water easement without prior written approval from the director of the public utilities department. Prohibited structures include buildings, houses, decks, garages, tool or storage sheds, swimming pools, walls, and fences. Prohibited permanent equipment includes air conditioning units and heat pumps.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 16, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-117. - Injury to systems; removing, damaging, breaking, etc.
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, damage, or interfere with any reuse water pipes belonging to the city, or to remove, break, or injure any portion of any manhole, or any part of the reuse water of the utility system. Provided, it shall further be unlawful for any person to cut off or discontinue reuse water service to any part of the city system without the written consent of the director of public utilities.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 17, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-118. - Enforcement procedure.
(a)
Civil penalties. Any person who violates any of the provisions of this division or any regulation, standard, rule, or order duly adopted in furtherance of this division, or who continues any alteration extension or construction of the utility system or part thereof without first obtaining a permit or written permission or who undertakes or continues any alteration, extension, or construction of the utility system or part thereof, except in conformity with the terms, conditions, requirements, and provisions of an approved application, plan or both shall be subject to a civil penalty of up to $1,000.00 per day. The person alleged to be in violation shall be given notice of the civil penalty by registered mail, certified mail return receipt requested, or personal service. The notice shall set forth in detail a description of the violation for which the penalty has been invoked. For continuous violations, a second notice shall be sent ten calendar days after the original notice. If payment is not received or equitable settlement reached after 20 days after demand for payment is first made, the city may pursue all remedies allowable by law.
(b)
Criminal penalties. Any person who knowingly or willfully or negligently violates any of the provisions of this division, or any standard, regulation, rule or order duly adopted in furtherance of this division, or who undertakes or continues any alteration, extension or construction of the utility system or part thereof without first obtaining a permit or written permission or who undertakes or continues any alteration, extension, or construction of the utility system or part thereof, except in conformity with the terms, conditions, requirements and provisions of an approved application, plan, or both shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment to the maximum number of days prescribed by law.
(c)
Injunctive relief. Whenever the city has reasonable cause to believe that any person is violating or threatening to violate any of the provisions of this division or any standards, regulation, rule or order duly adopted in furtherance of this division, or is undertaking or continuing any alteration, extension and construction of the utility system without first obtaining a permit or written permission, or is undertaking or continuing any alterations, extension, or construction of the utility system or part thereof, except in conformity with the terms, conditions, requirements and provisions of an approved application, plan, or both, the city may, either before or after the institution of any other action or proceeding authorized by this Code, institute a civil action in the name of the city for injunctive relief to restrain the violation or threatened violation. The institution of an action for injunctive relief under this subsection shall not relieve any party to such proceeding from any civil or criminal penalty prescribed for violations of this Code. The terms "undertakes" or "undertaking" as used herein means the initiating of or continuing of or being financially responsible for any activity or phase of activity which results in the extension, construction, or alteration of any part of the utility system of the city.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 18, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-119. - Duty to report damage.
Every person who observes damage to a manhole or to any other part of the reuse water system, public or private, has a duty to report the damage to the public utilities department, and every permit holder whose reuse system is damaged shall take immediate actions to stop or as best practical mitigate the flow of the reuse water.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 19, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-120. - Connecting with reuse water pipes.
It shall be unlawful for any person to connect any pipe or take by any means reuse water from or interfere with the pipes of the reuse water system of the city without authorization from the director of public utilities. In reviewing requests, the director of public utilities shall consider the appropriateness of the size, location, character, and quality of all materials and connections. It shall be unlawful for any person, except city forces as directed by the director of public utilities, to operate any valve in the reuse water distribution system of the city.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 20, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-121. - Responsibility for making connections.
All reuse water services shall be installed, extended, replaced or repaired by city forces from the city's main to the property line unless otherwise permitted by the director of public utilities; provided, no such permission shall be granted for work within the corporate limits in public street rights-of-way except by licensed utility contractors. All reuse water connections in new developments shall be the responsibility of the developer and at his expense in accordance with city standards and specifications.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 21, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-122. - Meter requirements; placement of meters.
A separate reuse water meter connection is required for each lot at the time of connection with reuse water service. All such meters shall be placed in the street right-of-way or in a two-foot easement adjacent to the street right-of-way at such locations as the director of public utilities shall determine, provided that nothing herein shall authorize the placement of a water meter on the opposite side of the street right-of-way from the building being served. Reuse water meters shall be placed within five feet of the potable water meter serving the property. All meters shall conform to the standards and material specifications of the city. All reuse water meters shall be installed by city forces in accordance to a fee schedule on file with the department of inspections.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 22, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-123. - Emergency discontinuation of service and repairs.
The repair of all pipes and fixtures on private property shall be the responsibility of the property owner or consumer. When a minor failure occurs in a pipe or fixture on private property, and such failure is not corrected within 12 hours of notification by the public utilities director to the owner or person in charge, the city, for the purpose of conserving reuse water and protecting the public, may discontinue service until the failure is corrected or enter the property and make the necessary repairs. When a major failure occurs in a line or fixture and creates the possibility of an immediate danger to the public health or safety, the city may make the necessary repairs. The work done by the city shall be limited to the necessary line repair and such backfilling as needed to protect the pipe. The cost of any repairs performed by the city shall be charged to the property owner and included in his next regular periodic reuse water bill. Failure to pay the repair bill shall be considered as a regular reuse water bill delinquency and service may be discontinued until such amount is paid.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 23, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-124. - Suspension of reuse service.
The city may suspend or terminate reuse water service at any time the reuse water at the terminal point of the city's treatment plant does not meet the requirements of the governing regulatory agencies. In such a case, reuse water service may be restored when the city determines that permit user will comply with all the governing requirements. Within 30 days following the suspension of reuse water service, the reuse water permit holder may in writing appeal the suspension to the public utilities director, who within 15 days of receipt of the appeal shall conduct a hearing. When reuse water is not available, the city may substitute potable water on a temporary basis at the discretion of the city. An approved air gap separation must be used in any connection for temporary potable water.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 24, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-125. - Termination of service for misuse.
If any person violates any provisions of this division or any regulation, standard, rule or order duly adopted in furtherance of this division, the city may terminate water, sewer, and/or reuse water service to that property. Within 30 days following the termination of reuse water service, the reuse water permit holder may in writing appeal the termination to the public utilities director, who within 15 days of receipt of the appeal shall conduct a hearing. If service is terminated, the consumer shall bear the full responsibility of any costs or liabilities for reconnecting to the utilities. The city shall be indemnified by the violator or in the discretion of the city the permit user from all claims, damages, losses, or expenses, including federal and state civil penalties imposed upon the city, caused by the failure to meet the requirements of the governing regulatory agencies concerning the use and operation of reuse water or from the termination of reuse water service.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 25, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-126. - [Conflict.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 26, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-127. - [Severability.]
If this division or application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this division which can be given separate effect and to this end the provisions of this division are declared to be severable.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 27, 8-6-2007)
Sec. 14-128. - [Effective date.]
This division shall become effective upon adoption by the mayor and council of the city.
(Ord. No. 07-7-6, § 28, 8-6-2007)
Secs. 14-129, 14-130. - Reserved.
