ARTICLE VI. - MOBILE FOOD VENDORS

Sec. 8-280. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commissary shall mean an approved catering establishment, restaurant or other approved place in which food containers or supplies are kept, handed, prepared, packaged or stored and that has also obtained approval from the health department.
Ice cream truck shall mean a motor vehicle in which ice cream, popsicles, ice sherbets or other frozen desserts of any kind are carried for the purpose of retail sales on the streets of the city.
Mobile food vendor shall mean a retail food establishment that reports to and operates from a commissary and is readily moveable, is a motorized wheeled vehicle, or towed wheeled vehicle designed and equipped to serve food. Sellers of produce, fruit and vegetables at the city farmers' market only are governed by the license requirements set forth in section 8-300. Other than the city farmers' market, sellers of produce, fruit and vegetables shall be governed by article II or this article VI as applicable.
Pushcart shall mean a non-self-propelled vehicle limited to serving commissary prepared or pre-packaged food and non-potentially hazardous food, unless equipment is commercially designed and approved to handle food preparation and service.
Temporary food establishment shall mean a retail food establishment, other than a licensed mobile food vendor or pushcart, that is not intended to be permanent and that operates at a fixed location for a period of time of not more than 14 consecutive days in a calendar year.
(Ord. of 10-02-2017(1), § 2)
Sec. 8-281. - License requirements.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, or offer for sale, food of any type from a mobile food vendor, pushcart or temporary food establishment without a license first having been granted under this section, except for city permitted special events.
(b)
An application for a license hereunder shall be submitted to the city setting forth all information required hereunder and in compliance with this ordinance.
(c)
A fee as set forth in section 2-110 of this Code shall be required for the purpose of regulating such businesses plus an administrative fee as set forth in section 2-110 of this Code shall be required for the purpose of administering the application for such licenses, which shall be due and payable prior to commencing business in the city and shall be due annually each year thereafter in which the applicant continues to conduct business in the city.
(d)
The following information shall be provided with each application for a license hereunder:
(1)
Name of mobile food vendor;
(2)
Copy of a government issued identification;
(3)
Make, model and license plate number of vending unit;
(4)
Owner's contact information;
(5)
Operator's contact information;
(6)
Copy of approved permit from the health department or the Georgia Department of Agriculture as applicable;
(7)
List of operating locations and times;
(8)
Signature from property owner indicating consent for the use of their property;
(9)
Signature of the applicant indicating agreement to the listed requirements.
(e)
Mobile food vendors at special events shall submit payment for their license fee (no administrative fee shall be required from special event vendors as the administrative fee is paid by the special event permittee) and documentation required by this ordinance to the special event permittee, who shall be then responsible for submitting all mobile food vendor license payments and documentation required by this ordinance to the city prior to the event.
(Ord. of 10-02-2017(1), § 2)
Sec. 8-282. - Prohibited conduct and requirements.
(a)
Except for ice cream trucks or pushcarts, no mobile food vendor shall conduct business or operate in the public right-of-way.
(b)
A mobile food vendor shall not operate on any private property without the prior written consent of the owner. In addition, the proposed location shall have sufficient ingress-egress, parking (if applicable) and space to operate the proposed sales as determined in the reasonable discretion of City permit director or her designee
(c)
Except for ice cream trucks or pushcarts, a mobile food vendor shall not make sounds or announcements to call attention to the mobile food vehicle either while traveling on the public right of way or when stationary.
(d)
The license and all applicable health certificates under which a mobile food vendor is operating must be firmly attached and visible on the mobile food vendor or pushcart at all times.
(e)
Except for ice cream trucks or pushcarts, mobile food vendors are allowed only in nonresidential districts.
(f)
Mobile food vendors shall not be located within 50 feet of any street intersection or pedestrian crosswalk or 50 feet of any driveway.
(g)
No sales or offer for sale shall be made by any mobile food vendor between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless such sale is in conjunction with a city permitted special event.
(h)
Vending structures shall not be left unattended or permanently stored at any time on the open vending site when vending is not taking place or during restricted hours of operation.
(i)
The mobile food vendor may sell food and non-alcoholic beverage items only unless at a city permitted event that allows alcoholic beverage sales in accordance with all local, state and federal law.
(j)
Permitted signage shall mean any signage marketing and/or advertising for any mobile food vendor unit or cart that meet the following requirements:
(1)
Sandwich boards located on the premises of where the mobile vendor unit is operating while the mobile food vendor or unit is actually operating.
(2)
Wall signage that is safely affixed to the mobile food vendor unit.
(k)
The area where the mobile food vendor shall operate shall be kept clean and free from litter, garbage and debris. Each mobile food vendor must provide garbage receptacles for its patrons located within ten feet of the mobile unit.
(l)
Absent consent as set forth below, operation of any mobile food vendor must be a minimum distance of 200 feet from any building housing an eating and/or drinking establishment (other than a mobile food vendor owned and operated by that eating and/or drinking establishment). The distance will be measured from the serving window in a straight line to the property line of the nearest eating and/or drinking establishment. If operating within the 200 foot limit, the mobile food vendor must have the signed consent of all affected establishments. This provision shall not apply to mobile food vendors operating at city permitted events.
(m)
A person operating a mobile food vendor may not take orders from any patrons while such patrons are in their motor vehicles.
(Ord. of 10-02-2017(1), § 2)
Sec. 8-283. - Enforcement and revocation.
The provisions of this article may be enforced through the city's code enforcement procedures or as otherwise authorized in this Code. The remedies that the city may pursue for a violation of this article include:
(1)
As provided in section 1-8 of the Code of Ordinances of Dawsonville; and/or
(2)
Revocation or refusal to renew the mobile food vendor license.
(Ord. of 10-02-2017(1), § 2)
Secs. 8-284—8-299. - Reserved.
