Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Records management.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 50-18-99, the city has adopted the Records Retention Schedule for Local Government Records as published by the Georgia Secretary of State's Department of Archives and History, and any such amendments or updates as may be made to such Retention Schedule for Local Government Records.
(b)
All city records shall be maintained in accordance with approved retention schedules, in the most updated version of the Retention Schedule for Local Government Records.
(c)
The city clerk shall serve as the coordinator of the records management plan and is authorized to act for and on behalf of the city in directing and coordinating all records management matters under the Georgia Records Retention Act. In discharging the records management and records destruction duties, the city clerk shall, whether personally or by delegation, maintain all records in accordance with the Georgia Secretary of State Retention Schedules for Local Government Records adopted by the mayor and city council, and shall not destroy, allow, or direct any employee to destroy, any record except as provided on the aforesaid retention schedule.
(d)
Whenever any records are destroyed, a certificate of destruction shall be prepared and forwarded to the mayor and council, which shall show the type of records destroyed, the dates covered, and the volume destroyed. These memoranda of destruction shall be kept by the city clerk in a central location, and may be viewed by any member of the public as provided by law.
(Res. No. 060611A, 6-6-2011)
Editor's note—
Res. No. 060611A, adopted June 6, 2011, did not specifically amend the Code and has been included herein as § 2-1 at the discretion of the editor.
Secs. 2-2—2-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LEGISLATIVE BODY (RESERVED)

Secs. 2-19—2-39. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

Sec. 2-40. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Charter means the document given by the Georgia General Assembly as the official document granting the city authority to govern in the city's incorporated area.
Compensated time allowed means the number of hours allowed to be paid for by the city council.
Compensation means money paid to the mayor and councilmembers for services rendered during the term of their elected office.
Rate of compensation means the amount of money, stipulated in this Code, paid per hour.
(Ord. of 12-1-2003, § 3)
Sec. 2-41. - Compensation—Mayor.
After the commencement of the term of the mayor elected at the next regular election, the rate of compensation for the mayor shall be $25.00 per hour. The conditions for such compensation are as follows:
(1)
That the mayor, in addition to those duties described in section 2.18 of the city's Charter, perform other duties as may be required by the city council and in such a time allowed by the city council or this Code.
(2)
That the minimum compensated time allowed for the mayor to perform his duties should be six hours per week.
(3)
That the maximum compensated time allowed for the mayor to perform his duties should be 40 hours per week.
(4)
That all compensated time allowed must first be considered and included in the city's annual budget and the budget has been approved by the city council in the usual procedure.
(5)
That upon the discretion and a majority vote, the council at any time may raise or lower the compensated time allowed for the mayor.
(6)
That the rate of compensation, if increased, shall constitute a pay increase, and shall require an amendment to this Code. If amended and increased, the effective date shall not be until after the commencement of the term of mayor or prospective councilmember at the next regular election.
(7)
That the council may require the mayor to account for his allowed compensated time in a manner prescribed by the council.
(8)
That the mayor be considered the same as all other employees in regard to employee benefits, such as health insurance, retirement, sick leave, and vacation, as set forth in the city's employee benefit policy.
(9)
That if the mayor's allowed compensated time should be reduced below 30 hours by a majority vote of the council or during the annual budget process then the mayor would not be eligible for health insurance or other benefits under the city's benefit policy.
(10)
That in the case of a tie vote, when the subject of the vote is concerning the mayor's compensation, the mayor shall not vote, therefore requiring three votes in the affirmative for any motion to carry.
(11)
That the city clerk be directed to pay the mayor at a time and in the same manner as other employees or in a manner prescribed by the city council.
(Ord. of 12-1-2003, § 4)
Sec. 2-42. - Same—Councilmembers.
After the commencement of the terms of the councilmembers elected at the next regular election, the salary for the councilmembers shall be $100.00 per month and paid by the city clerk on the last pay period of each month.
(Ord. of 12-1-2003, § 5)
Sec. 2-43. - Same—Mayor pro tem.
After the commencement of the terms of the councilmembers, elected by the council is mayor pro tem at the next regular election. The salary for the mayor pro tem shall be $100.00 per month and paid by the city clerk on the last pay period of each month.
(Ord. of 12-1-2003, § 6)
Sec. 2-44. - Compensation and expenses.
The mayor and council shall determine the salary of the mayor and councilmembers by ordinance; provided, however, no ordinance increasing the salary of the mayor or councilmembers shall become effective until the date of commencement of the terms of the mayor and councilmembers elected at the next regular election. Each councilmember and the mayor, when authorized by the mayor and council and upon presentation of itemized vouchers, shall receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
(Ord. of 12-1-2003, § 2.13)
Sec. 2-45. - Prohibitions.
(a)
Holding other office. Except as authorized by law, no member of the council or the mayor shall hold any other elective city office or city employment during the term for which he was elected; and no former mayor or councilmember shall hold any compensated appointive city office or city employment until one year after expiration of the term for which he was elected to office.
(b)
Voting when personally interested. Neither the mayor nor any other member of the council shall vote upon any question in which he is personally interested.
(Ord. of 12-1-2003, § 2.14)
Sec. 2-46. - Inquiries and investigations.
The council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and conduct of any department, office, or agency thereof and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the council shall be punished as provided by section 1-11.
(Ord. of 12-1-2003, § 2.15)
Sec. 2-47. - General power and authority of the council.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided by law or by the city's Charter, the council shall be vested with all the powers of government of the city, as provided by article I of the city's Charter.
(b)
In addition to all other powers conferred upon it by law, the council shall have the authority to adopt and provide for the execution of such ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations, not inconsistent with the city's Charter, the Constitution, and the laws of the state, which it shall deem necessary, expedient, or helpful for the peace, good order, protection of life and property, health, welfare, sanitation, comfort, convenience, prosperity, or well-being of the inhabitants of the city, and may enforce such ordinance by imposing penalties for violation thereof.
(c)
The council may by ordinance create, change, alter, abolish, or consolidate offices, agencies, and departments of the city and may assign additional functions to any of the offices, agencies, and departments expressly provided for by the city's Charter.
(Ord. of 12-1-2003, § 2.16)
Sec. 2-48. - Chief executive officer.
The mayor shall be the chief executive of the city. He shall possess, have, and exercise all the executive and administrative powers granted to the city under the Constitution and laws of the state, and all the executive and administrative powers contained in the city's Charter.
(Ord. of 12-1-2003, § 2.17)
Sec. 2-49. - Powers and duties.
As the chief executive, the mayor shall:
(1)
See that all laws and ordinances of the city are faithfully executed;
(2)
Appoint and remove all officers, department heads, and employees except as otherwise provided in the city's Charter;
(3)
Exercise supervision over all executive and administrative work and provide for the coordination of administrative activities;
(4)
Prepare and submit to the council a recommended annual operating budget and recommended capital budget;
(5)
Submit to the council at least once a year a statement covering the financial conditions of the city and, from time to time, such other information as the council may request;
(6)
Recommend to the council such measures relative to the affairs of the city, improvement of the government, and promotion of the welfare of its inhabitants as he may deem expedient;
(7)
Call special meetings of the council as provided for in section 2.21(b) of the Charter;
(8)
Examine and audit all accounts before payment;
(9)
Require any department or agency to submit written reports in connection with the affairs thereof whenever he deems it expedient;
(10)
Preside at all meetings of the city council;
(11)
Be the official head of the city for the service of process and for ceremonial purposes;
(12)
Have power to administer oaths and take affidavits;
(13)
Sign all written contracts and instruments executed on behalf of the city and all other contracts and instruments executed by the city which by law are required to be in writing;
(14)
Vote at council meetings only in case of a tie vote among councilmembers;
(15)
Perform other duties as may be required by law, the city's Charter, or ordinance.
(Ord. of 12-1-2003, § 2.18)
Sec. 2-50. - Mayor pro tem.
During the absence or disability of the mayor, for any cause, the mayor pro tem, who shall be elected as provided for in section 2.20 of the Charter, or in his absence or disability for any reason, any one of the councilmembers chosen by the council, shall be clothed with all the rights and privileges of the mayor and shall perform the duties of the office of the mayor so long as such absence or disability shall continue.
(Ord. of 12-1-2003, § 2.19)
