Chapter 4 - ANIMALS AND FOWL[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Disposal of dead animals, O.C.G.A. § 4-5-1 et seq.; Animal Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.; cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4; wild animals, O.C.G.A. § 27-5-4 et seq.; fish, O.C.G.A. § 27-4-30 et seq.; liability of owner or keeper of vicious or dangerous animal for injuries caused by animal, O.C.G.A. § 51-2.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Injuring or molesting wild animals on city property.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot at, throw objects at or molest in any way whatever, squirrels, rabbits, birds or any other game of any kind in the city parks, playgrounds, waterworks grounds, streets or upon any property whatsoever controlled by the city.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow his dogs to run at large in the parks or playgrounds or allow such dogs to molest any of the above-mentioned animals and birds in any way.
(Code 1976, § 4-1; Ord. No. 192, 2-5-1936)
State Law reference— Injury to livestock by dogs, O.C.G.A. § 51-26.
Sec. 4-2. - Commercial poultry production.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the growing or production of poultry for commercial use in the city. Any person who shall keep or maintain in any building or enclosure more than 500 chickens or other fowl at one time is prima facie guilty and the burden of proof shall be cast upon the one so charged.
(Code 1976, § 4-3; Ord. No. 252, §§ 1, 4, 1-29-1954)
Sec. 4-3. - Hogs prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep hogs within the city.
(Code 1904, §§ 130, 132; Code 1976, § 4-4; Ord. No. 125, 12-2-1924)
Sec. 4-4. - Livestock at large—Prohibited; impounding.
It shall be unlawful for any livestock to run at large in the city, off of the property of the owner. Any such animal found at large shall be taken up by any policeman or other designated official, or by any person upon whose land such animal is found trespassing.
(Code 1904, §§ 62, 169; Code 1976, § 4-6; Ord. No. 192, 2-5-1936)
State Law reference— Estrays, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 4-5. - Same—Confining after capture; redemption by owner.
All livestock so taken up shall be confined in a pen to be provided by the city, to be held until the owner complies with the law in reference thereto. The owner of any such animal may reclaim the same by paying the costs and damages. If not reclaimed by the owner the same shall be sold or otherwise disposed of by the city.
(Code 1904, § 170; Code 1976, § 4-7)
Sec. 4-6. - Same—Record of impounding.
All livestock so taken up shall be registered by the designated official in a book to be kept for that purpose, in which he shall particularly describe the animal, give the name of the person taking up the same, where and when taken up, and the subsequent proceedings relative to same.
(Code 1904, § 171; Code 1976, § 4-8)
Sec. 4-7. - Same—Sale of impounded animals.
(a)
On the next day after the animals are taken up and are put in the pound the designated official shall advertise such animals for sale by posting a notice at the door of the post office, the sale to occur before the city hall, three days from the date of the advertisement, during the legal hours of sale.
(b)
The proceeds arising from such sale shall be disposed of as follows: the costs of taking up, keeping, giving notice and selling shall first be paid, the remainder to be paid over to the clerk-treasurer, subject to the claim of the true owner, provided it is made within three months.
(Code 1904, §§ 173, 174; Code 1976, § 4-9)
Sec. 4-8. - Diseased animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep within the city, any horse or mule with glanders, or to ride or drive on the public streets any horse or other animal that has glanders or other infectious or contagious disease.
(Code 1904, § 80; Code 1976, § 4-10)
State Law reference— Disease prevention, O.C.G.A. § 4-4-1 et seq.
Sec. 4-9. - Horses or other animal transportation prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to walk, ride, fasten or travel with or upon any horse, mule, ox or similar animal within the corporate limits of the city, unless under special permit issued and approved by the city manager and/or his designee.
(Ord. No. 6-2003, § I, 6-16-2003)
Sec. 4-10. - Slaughtering prohibited.
No person shall slaughter any animal at any residence or other location within the corporate limits of the city. This prohibition shall include the indiscriminate killing and slaughtering of animals, the killing of animals for the purpose of cooking same, ritualistic or symbolic slaughtering activities, or any other activities whatsoever. This prohibition shall not apply to duly licensed commercial and/or industrial manufacturing operations within the city.
(Code 1904, § 134; Code 1976, § 4-12)
Secs. 4-11—4-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DOGS

Sec. 4-36. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Animal control officer means any person, firm or corporation engaged on behalf of the city by the city manager to carry out the provisions hereof and to maintain facilities for impounding animals under this article.
At large meansoff the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the owner or a member of the owner's immediate family, either by leash, cord, chain, voice control or otherwise.
Confined means that any dog is within a building, pen or fenced area or other structure built to prevent intrusion or escape by any dog.
Control means that any owner must keep his dog upon his private property, on a leash if in a public place, or confined by a proper enclosure if the dog is determined to be a dangerous dog, or potentially dangerous dog, as defined by this section.
Dangerous dog.
(1)
The term "dangerous dog" means:
a.
Any dog that engages in or has been found to have been trained to engage in exhibitions of fighting;
b.
Any dog that, when unprovoked, attacks, inflicts bites, or otherwise causes injury to human beings either on public or private property;
c.
Any dog previously determined to be and currently registered as a potentially dangerous dog which, after its owner or custodian has been notified of this determination, continued the behavior described in this definition of potentially dangerous dog or is maintained in violation of section 4-54; or
d.
Any dog which, when unprovoked, has killed, or seriously injured a domestic animal.
(2)
The term "dangerous dog" does not mean:
a.
Any dog that attacks or inflicts bites upon a trespasser of a fully enclosed building;
b.
Any dog used in the military or police if the bite or attack occurred while the dog was performing in that capacity; or
c.
Any dog further exempted from dangerous dog designation classified under section 4-37.
Dog means any dog of either sex, unless otherwise specified.
Domestic animals means any dog, cat, horse, and/or similar animal that lives or habitats on or about the home and/or property of a person.
Owner means any natural person or any legal entity, including, but not limited to, a corporation, partnership, firm or trust owning, possessing, harboring, keeping or having custody or control of a dog, dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog within this city.
Potentially dangerous dog means:
(1)
Any dog that, in a terrorizing manner, approaches any person in apparent attitude of attack upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public grounds or places; or anywhere on or off the property of the owner or custodian of the dog;
(2)
Any dog at large found to menace, chase, display threatening or aggressive behavior, or otherwise threaten or endanger the safety of any human being; or
(3)
Any dog which, when unprovoked, has bitten, or inflicted injury upon a domestic animal.
Proper enclosure means an enclosure for keeping a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog while on the owner's property securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen, fence or structure suitable to prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the dog from escaping. Any such pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top, and, if the dog is enclosed within a fence, all sides of the fence shall be of sufficient height and the bottom of the fence shall be constructed or secured in such a manner as to prevent the dog's escape either from over or from under the fence. Any such enclosure shall also provide protection from the elements for the dog.
Records of an appropriate authority means records of any state, county or municipal law enforcement agency; records of any county or municipal animal control agency; records of any county board of health; records of any federal, state or local court; or records of a dog control officer provided for in this article.
Severe injury means any physical injury that results in broken bones or disfiguring lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery, or a physical injury that results in death.
(Code 1976, § 4-20; Ord. No. 1981-004, § 1, 3-10-1981; Ord. No. 1990-001, § 1, 2-13-1990; Ord. No. 2-2006, § 1(4-36), 1-10-2006; Ord. No. 2018O-06, §§ 1, 3, 7-10-2018)
Sec. 4-37. - Exemption from dangerous dog designation.
A dog that inflicts an injury upon a person when the dog is being used by a law enforcement officer to carry out the law enforcement officer's official duties shall not be a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog within the meaning of this article. A dog shall not be a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog within the meaning of this article if the injury inflicted by the dog was sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass or other tort or was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog or had, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the dog or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
(Code 1976, § 4-21; Ord. No. 1990-001, § 2, 2-13-1990)
Sec. 4-38. - Powers, duties and jurisdiction.
(a)
The city may contract or enter into agreements with any other municipality or with the county for any joint dog control services or for the implementation of dog control services required by the Dangerous Dog Control Law (O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.). This joint dog control service may include, but not be limited to, the use of joint personnel, facilities, equipment, dog control officers, animal control boards or any other joint services as may be expeditious and deemed advisable by the mayor and council of the city.
(b)
The city manager may appoint such animal and/or dog control officer, police officers or such other personnel as may be necessary to effectuate the purposes of the provisions of this article. All persons so appointed shall have the power to enforce all ordinances and codes relating to animal control in the city shall perform all duties assigned to them by the city manager, shall investigate any animal nuisances, advise on animal control regulations and problems, educate the public concerning animal control and generally supervise all activities required by this chapter. Further, the individuals shall administer the provisions of the dangerous dog control law of the state.
(c)
The city council does hereby delegate unto the municipal court of this city jurisdiction for the enforcement of the provisions of this article, including the right to conduct such hearings, make such fines and require the enforcement of this article as may be generally provided by the Code of the city or the laws of this state.
(Code 1976, § 4-22; Ord. No. 1990-001, § 3, 2-13-1990)
Sec. 4-39. - Requirements for possessing dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog.
(a)
It is unlawful for an owner to have or possess within this state and the city a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog without a certificate of registration issued in accordance with the provisions of this section. This certificate shall be in addition to any standard dog license and fees or other requirements of this article. See section 4-39.
(b)
Subject to the additional requirements of subsection (c) of this section for dangerous dogs, the dog control officer shall issue a certificate of registration to the owner of such dog if the owner presents to the dog control officer or the dog control officer otherwise finds sufficient evidence of:
(1)
A proper enclosure to confine the dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog;
(2)
The posting of the premises where the dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog is located with a clearly visible sign warning that there is a dangerous dog on the property. This sign shall be as designed by the department of natural resources and shall be posted in a conspicuous place so that it may be seen by the general public; and
(3)
Any other reasonable conditions as are deemed necessary by the animal control officer, including, but not limited to:
a.
Completion of an obedience course, upon successful completion of which, the animal control officer may waive the muzzle requirement of section 4-55 as pertaining to potentially dangerous dogs;
b.
The purchase and wearing of a bright fluorescent yellow collar that identifies the dog as a potentially dangerous dog.
(c)
In addition to the requirements of subsection (b) of this section, the owner of a dangerous dog shall present to the dog control officer evidence of:
(1)
A policy of insurance in the amount of at least $250,000.00 issued by an insurer authorized to transact business in this state insuring the owner of the dangerous dog against liability for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog; or
(2)
A surety bond in the amount of $250,000.00 or more issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in this state payable to any person injured by the dangerous dog;
(3)
Any other reasonable conditions as are deemed necessary by the animal control officer including but not limited to the following:
(i)
That the postal service and all utility companies have been given written notice of the dangerous dog;
(ii)
Submission of a photograph of the dog. The photo must include the full head and body from the front;
(iii)
That the dog has been spayed or neutered;
(iv)
That the dog has been assigned a registration number, or such other identification number as the city shall determine, and that this registration number shall be inscribed on any of the dog's collars.
(d)
The owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog shall notify the dog control officer within 24 hours if the dog is on the loose, is unconfined, has attacked a human, has died or has been sold or donated. If the dog has been sold or donated, the owner shall also provide the dog control officer with the name, address and telephone number of the new owner of the dog.
(e)
The owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog shall notify the dog control officer if the owner is moving from the city. The owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog who moves from this city to another jurisdiction within the state shall register the dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog in the new jurisdiction within ten days after becoming a resident.
(f)
Issuance of a certificate of registration or the renewal of a certificate of registration by the city does not warrant or guarantee that the requirements specified in subsections (b) and (c) of this section are maintained by the owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog on a continuous basis following the date of the issuance of the initial certificate of registration or following the date of any annual renewal of such certificate.
(g)
A dog control officer is authorized to make whatever inquiry is deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this article.
(h)
The city does hereby levy and charge against the owner of any dangerous dog for the purpose of registration pursuant to this section, and in addition to any other license fees required generally for dogs within the city, the sum of $250.00 as a fee to register the dog as a dangerous dog pursuant to the ordinances of the city. All certificates of registration shall be renewed on an annual basis. At the time of any renewal, the animal control officer shall require evidence from the owner or make such investigation as may be necessary to verify that the dangerous dog, or potentially dangerous dog, is continuing to be confined in a proper enclosure and that the owner is continuing to comply with all of the provisions of the Code of Ordinances of the city which might apply to this situation.
(Code 1976, § 4-38; Ord. No. 1990-001, § 4, 2-13-1990; Ord. No. 2-2006, § 1(4-54), 1-10-2006)
Sec. 4-40. - Restrictions on permitting dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs to be outside a proper enclosure.
It is unlawful for an owner of a potentially dangerous dog or dangerous dog to permit the dog to be outside a proper enclosure unless the dog is muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash and is under the physical restraint of a responsible person. The muzzle shall be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration but will prevent it from biting any person.
(Code 1976, § 4-39; Ord. No. 1990-001, § 4, 2-13-1990; Ord. No. 2-2006, § 1(4-55), 1-10-2006)
Sec. 4-41. - Violations; penalties; county regulations.
(a)
The owner of a dangerous dog who violates any applicable provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of high and aggravated nature. Each day that a violation exists shall be considered a separate offense under the Code of Ordinances of the city. Punishment of such persons shall be under the minimum standards of state law, incorporated herein by reference, pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 4-8-28 and in conformity with the general penalty provisions of section 1-7.
(b)
The owner of any dog who fails to comply with any provisions of this section, other than the dangerous dog provisions which apply under subsection (a) of this section, shall be tried in municipal court for nuisance and/or violation of this Code. The general penalty provisions of section 1-7 shall apply to the imposition of any fines or imprisonment of any violator of the various provisions of this article or this section which do not specifically apply to dangerous dogs.
(c)
In addition to any fines or other action taken by the municipal court of this city pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the judge of the municipal court shall also be authorized to recover the costs of impoundment of any dog, the costs of properly licensing the dog and any and all other related costs incurred by the city connection with the enforcement of any provisions of this article.
(d)
If an owner who has a previous conviction for a violation of this article knowingly and willfully fails to comply with the provisions of this article, such owner shall be guilty of a felony if the owner's dangerous dog attacks or bites a human being under circumstances constituting another violation of this article.
(e)
An owner who knowingly and willfully fails to comply with the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a felony if the owner's dangerous dog aggressively attacks and causes severe injury or death of a human being under circumstances constituting a violation of this article.
(f)
In addition to the penalties for violations under subsection (c) or (d) of this section, the dangerous dog involved shall be immediately confiscated by the animal control officer or by a law enforcement officer or another person authorized by the animal control officer and placed in quarantine for the proper length of time as determined by the county board of health or animal control officer. Thereafter, the dangerous dog may be destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner.
(g)
No owner of dangerous dog shall be held criminally liable under this article for injuries inflicted by said owner's dog to any human being trespasser while on the owner's property; or if the owner has complied with both state law and this article.
(h)
The city may enter into certain enforcement agreements, intergovernmental contracts, or similar joint service agreements with Polk County, Georgia, and/or other municipalities within the county. Should such agreements exist, the provisions of any and all county ordinances or other enforcement regulations are incorporated herein by reference. In the event of any inconsistencies between this chapter and the county regulations, this chapter shall control as it relates to enforcement actions in the municipal court and the county ordinances, regulations, or similar provisions shall control in the event enforcement occurs in the magistrates court or some similar court having jurisdiction over county ordinance violations.
(Code 1976, § 4-42; Ord. No. 1990-001, § 4, 2-13-1990; Ord. No. 2-2006, § 1(4-58), 1-10-2006)
Sec. 4-42. - Compliance with county ordinance.
All persons shall comply with the county animal control ordinance.
Sec. 4-43. - Keeping domestic animals under control.
It shall be unlawful for any owner of a domestic animal not to control the animal at all times through one of the following means:
(1)
On a leash when off the property of the owner.
(2)
Within a safe area of a vehicle driven or parked on the street; or in a box or tied/restrained in the bed of a truck.
(3)
Within the owner's property limits.
(4)
Confined within the property limits of the owner, or another party with the permission of the owner and the person in control of the property where the animal is confined.
(Ord. No. 2018O-06, §§ 1, 2, 7-10-2018)
Sec. 4-44. - Tethering generally.
It shall be unlawful for any owner and/or keeper of a domestic animal to chain, tie, fasten or otherwise tether any animal unless all of the conditions and provisions of this section are properly complied with by the person in charge of a dog or any other domestic animal, to-wit:
(1)
The tether is connected to the dog by a commercially available body harness made of nylon or leather that is of sufficient size to adequately and safely restrain the dog;
(2)
The tether is of a size and weight that is reasonably necessary to safely restrain the dog without placing excessive strain or weight on the dog;
(3)
The dog is not tethered outside in periods of extreme weather conditions; including but not limited to extreme heat, cold, thunderstorms, lightning, tornadoes, tropical storms or hurricanes;
(4)
A dog is tethered in a manner under conditions that do not jeopardize its health, safety or well-being;
(5)
The tether shall not extend over an object in such a manner that could result in strangulation of, or injury to, the animal. The length of the tether must be a minimum of ten feet, or at least three times the length of the animal measured from the animal's nose to the end of its tail, whichever is greater; unless the tether is being used to secure the animal to the bed of an open vehicle or pick-up truck. Restraints should allow the animal to move about and lie down comfortably; and
(6)
An animal that is sick or injured cannot be tethered as a means of confinement by the owner nor may an animal under the age of six months be tethered at any time unless the owner is present and attending to the tethered animal during the entire time it is tethered.
(Ord. No. 2018O-06, §§ 1, 4, 7-10-2018)
Sec. 4-45. - Specific requirements for confinement.
(a)
All domestic animals shall be provided with sanitary shelter from the elements. Said shelter shall be designed, constructed and maintained to protect the animal from rain, snow, ice, excessive cold, excessive heat and excessive direct sunlight, and of a size to allow the animal sufficient space to stand, turn around, and lie down and make all other normal body movements in a normal and comfortable position appropriate to age, size and health of the animal.
(b)
All domestic animals shall be provided with clean, potable water at all times.
(Ord. No. 2018O-06, §§ 1, 5, 7-10-2018)
Sec. 4-46. - Prohibitions for conduct involving domestic animals.
The following types of conduct and/or actions by domestic animals:
(1)
Attack or act so to menace pedestrians or other persons using public areas, parks, public rights-of-way, trails, streets, areas and/or the property of another.
(2)
Domestic animals shall, as near as practicable, be kept at least ten feet away from any public street, parks, and/or other public areas; except under the strict control of the owner/handler of the animal pursuant to the provisions of section 4-43 of this article.
(3)
Disturb the peace of any other person by loud, persistent, habitual barking, howling, growling, yelping or whining. No person shall be charged with violating this subsection unless written warning has previously been issued within 90 days of the charged violation. No such violation of this subsection shall be issued unless there are at least three complaining witnesses who have signed a written statement stating the address of the dog owner, a description of the dog and of the offense, date, time and location of the offense.
(Ord. No. 2018O-06, §§ 1, 6, 7-10-2018)
Sec. 4-47. - Penalty.
Any person who is found guilty of violating the prohibitions of this article shall be subject to all general penalties of the Code of the City of Rockmart, pursuant to section 1-7 and/or other applicable violations of ordinances and/or laws regarding such unlawful conduct.
(Ord. No. 2018O-06, §§ 1, 7, 7-10-2018)
