Chapter 22 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 22-1. - Disorderly conduct.
(a)
Generally. Any person who shall do or engage in any of the following in the unincorporated area of the county shall be guilty of disorderly conduct:
(1)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby any person is placed in danger of safety of the person's life, limb or health.
(2)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby public property or property of another person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged.
(3)
Endanger lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence or threats of bodily harm.
(4)
Cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another or public property.
(5)
Assemble or congregate with another or others and cause, provoke or engage in any fight or brawl.
(6)
Collect in bodies or in crowds and engage in unlawful activities.
(7)
Assemble or congregate with another or others and engage or attempt to engage in gaming.
(8)
Frequent any public place and obtain money from another by an illegal and fraudulent scheme, trick, artifice or device, or attempt to do so.
(9)
Assemble with another or others and engage in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any place or from any person, or attempt to do so.
(10)
Utter, in a place or any place open to the public, any obscene words or epithets.
(11)
Frequent any place where gaming or the illegal sale or possession of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs is practiced, allowed or tolerated.
(12)
Use "fighting words" directed towards any person who becomes outraged and thus create turmoil.
(13)
Assemble or congregate with another or others and do bodily harm to another.
(14)
By acts of violence, interfere with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation.
(15)
Congregate with another or others in or on any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic or refuse to clear such public way when ordered to do so by a peace office or other person having authority.
(16)
Damage, befoul or disturb public property or the property of another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically offensive condition.
(17)
Be and appear in an intoxicated condition in any public place or within the curtilage of any private residence not the person's own other than by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant, which condition is made manifest by boisterousness, by indecent condition or act, or by vulgar, profane, loud, or unbecoming language.
(b)
Penalty. Any person failing to comply with the mandatory provisions of, or doing any act prohibited by, subsection (a) of this section shall be guilty of an offense, and, upon conviction in the magistrate court, shall be punished by a fine in an amount not to exceed $500.00 and/or imprisonment in the county jail for a period not in excess of 60 days.
(Res. of 6-4-1991)
