Chapter 26 - PARKS AND RECREATION

Sec. 26-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Firearm means any weapon that is designed to or may readily be converted to expel a projectile by the action of an explosive or other frame or receiver of any such weapon, any firearm muffler or firearm silencer.
Park means any property owned or leased by the county board of commissioners that is designated as a recreation area, including Brassell Park.
Smoking means inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted tobacco product including cigarettes, cigars, and pipe tobacco.
Vehicle means any wheeled conveyance for the transportation of persons or materials.
(Ord. No. 2017-04, ยง 15-1, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 26-2. - Provisions extended to parks.
All laws, provisions of this Code and other ordinances in force in the county for the promotion of the peace, good order and morals thereof are, whenever applicable, hereby extended to and shall embrace the territory included in the public parks, and any person violating any such ordinance shall be subject to the penalties therefor provided in section 1-7.
(Ord. No. 2017-04, ยง 15-2, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 26-3. - Prohibited conduct.
(a)
No person shall do any of the following in any park, subject to approval for certain organized events:
(1)
Climb or lie upon any tree, shrub, fence, statue, monument, or fountain.
(2)
Enter or leave any park except through established entrances or exits and within established time periods.
(3)
It shall be unlawful to refuse to leave a park or recreational area after violating any of the laws or regulations established by this article after being directed to leave by any law enforcement officer or any authorized representative of the county.
(4)
Place or display any sign or advertisement, except that this rule does not apply to any signs or advertisements regarding any county-sponsored or county-authorized program, festival, or other event that occurs in the park. Signs or advertisements regarding county-sponsored or county-authorized programs, festivals, or other events may be placed or displayed only with permission by the recreation department director and only at the locations and during the times authorized in writing.
(5)
Play, practice or otherwise participate in any game, sport or other recreational activity that is destructive to the lawns, plants, walls, roads, or other infrastructure of a park, except at or upon places designated for that game, sport or recreational activity.
(6)
Knowingly, or through reckless behavior, destroy or damage the lawns, plants, walls, roads, or other infrastructure of a park, except by permission from the recreation department director.
(7)
Drive stakes, posts, poles or any other device, or dig holes for the purpose of securing stakes, posts, poles or any other device, for any reason, including to erect a tent, stage or other structure, except by permission from the recreation department director.
(8)
Bring in, erect, or permit a minor child in one's custody to bring in and/or erect any inflatable amusements, amusements requiring water, or any amusements requiring an independent power source, except by permission from the recreation department director.
(9)
Hang any sign, banner, or any other item from a tree located in the park.
(10)
Use off-road vehicles in the public parks, trails and green spaces, to include all-terrain vehicles and motorcycles, except motorcycles that remain upon roadways laid out and maintained for vehicular travel.
(11)
Drive a vehicle on any roads in a park or recreational area in excess of 25 miles per hour.
(12)
Hunt, trap, or otherwise pursue or catch any wildlife in any park or recreational area. It shall also be unlawful to shoot into a park or recreational area from beyond the boundaries of such park or recreational area.
(13)
Enter or remain in any park or recreational area while intoxicated and under the influence of any drug or alcohol. It shall also be unlawful for any person to consume or use alcoholic beverages or intoxicants in any park or recreational area.
(14)
Use or possess in any park or recreational area any fireworks, explosives, or firecrackers, unless such use has been approved with special permission granted by the county board of commissioners.
(15)
Use or discharge any firearm, air rifle or spring gun in any park or recreational area.
(16)
Remain in the park or recreational area upon the locking of the entrance to the park or closure of the park by the recreation department director, or to park any vehicle overnight in any park or recreational area.
(17)
Allow any animal to be present without a leash within any portion of the park, or to allow any animal on an area designated as a ball field.
(b)
Smoking shall not be permitted within any park, subject to any designated areas for smoking by the recreation department director.
(Ord. No. 2017-04, ยง 15-3, 12-5-2017)
