Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— County government generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Committees.
The chairperson, with the concurrence of the board of commissioners, may create committees of members of the board to study any issue before the board. Any such committees may make recommendations to the board of commissioners but no committee shall be empowered to make any final decision on any matter before it for consideration without express board approval. In addition to board members, committees may include other county officials, staff or citizens at large. Whenever a committee is created, its duties, any limitation on the scope of its duties, and the times, places and periods of time for which the committee may operate shall be determined by the chairperson, with the concurrence of the board. The chairperson shall serve as an ex officio member of all committees.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-1, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-2. - Open meetings.
All meetings of the board of commissioners shall be held in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq. The public shall at all times be afforded access to all meetings other than executive sessions.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-2, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-3. - Quorum.
A quorum must be present for conducting meetings of the board. A quorum is a majority of all of the members of the board then in office. It is the duty of the chairperson to enforce this rule. Any commissioner may raise a point of order directed to the chairperson if the commissioner believes that a quorum is not present. If, during the course of a meeting, a commissioner leaves and a quorum no longer exists, the meeting cannot continue. If a quorum is not attained within 30 minutes, the meeting will be rescheduled by the chairperson, with the approval of the commissioners present.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-3, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-4. - Majority vote required.
Passage of a motion shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of commissioners. If there is a tie vote, the chairperson shall vote to break the tie. The chairperson may vote in circumstances where the chairperson's vote will create or cause a tie vote.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-4, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-5. - Abstentions.
(a)
A commissioner shall vote on all motions unless the commissioner has a conflict of interest which would prevent the commissioner from making a decision in a fair and legal manner. If a conflict of interest does exist, the commissioner shall explain for the record the decision to abstain on any vote.
(b)
If a commissioner abstains when there is no apparent conflict and the commissioner provides no explanation, then that abstention shall be noted, but shall be recorded as a vote opposing the motion.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-5, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-6. - Chairperson.
The chairperson of the board of commissioners is responsible for the orderly conduct of the meeting. In order to fulfill this duty, the chairperson must enforce the rules of procedure that are adopted by the board of commissioners. The chairperson shall be impartial and conduct the meetings in a fair manner.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-6, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-7. - Vice-chairperson.
(a)
The board may select a vice-chairperson from the board members at the beginning of each calendar year. The vice-chairperson shall fulfill the duties of the chairperson if the chairperson is not in attendance.
(b)
If the chairperson and vice-chairperson are absent, and a quorum is present, the remaining commissioners shall select a commissioner to serve as temporary chairperson of the meeting until either the chairperson or vice-chairperson is present at the meeting.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-7, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-8. - Agenda.
(a)
The chairperson shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. Members may add items to the agenda by providing notice to the chairperson of the members' intentions to do so by 12:00 noon on the Friday preceding a regularly scheduled meeting or two business days prior to a specially called meeting or work session. The agenda shall be made available to the commissioners at least one business day before every board meeting.
(b)
Members of the public may request that a particular subject be placed on the agenda for the following meeting. To be considered, this request must be submitted in writing to the chairperson and received by 3:00 p.m. on Thursday prior to the Tuesday meeting.
(c)
The order of the agenda may be changed during a meeting by a majority vote of the board. A new subject that requires urgent attention may be added to the agenda during a meeting by a two-thirds vote of the board.
(d)
A copy of the agenda and a list of those members present shall be made available to the public for inspection within one business day of the adjournment of any meeting.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-8, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-9. - Minutes.
(a)
The county clerk shall promptly record the minutes for each board meeting. The minutes serve as the official written record of the board meeting and shall be open for public inspection once approved as official by the board, but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the board. The minutes shall specify the names of commissioners present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made at the meeting, the commissioner who proposed each motion, and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll-call vote, the name of each commissioner voting for or against a proposal shall be recorded. It shall be presumed that a commissioner has voted in the affirmative unless the minutes show otherwise. More detailed information may be included in the minutes at the request of the board.
(b)
The board must approve the minutes before they can be considered as an official record of the board. A copy of the minutes from the previous meeting shall be distributed to the commissioners at least one business day before the following meeting. The minutes of the previous meeting shall be corrected and approved by the board at the beginning of each meeting. A majority vote is required for approval. Conflicts about the content of the minutes shall be decided by majority vote. Upon being approved, the minutes shall be signed by the chairperson and attested to by the county clerk.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-9, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-10. - Decorum.
(a)
All commissioners must conduct themselves in a professional and respectful manner. All remarks should be directed to the chairperson and not to individual commissioners, staff or citizens in attendance. Personal remarks are inappropriate. A commissioner is not allowed to speak at a meeting until the commissioner has been recognized by the chairperson. All comments made by a commissioner shall address the motion that is being discussed.
(b)
The chairperson shall enforce these rules of decorum. If a commissioner believes that a rule has been broken, the commissioner can raise a point of order. A second is not required. The chairperson can rule on the question or the chairperson can allow the board to debate the issue and decide the issue by a majority vote.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-10, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-11. - Public participation.
Public participation in meetings of the board of commissioners shall be permitted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(1)
Public comments and participation on agenda items. Individuals desiring to address the board of commissioners regarding an agenda item are required to sign in. Agenda item comments shall be allowed as each agenda item is taken up for consideration by the board. The chairperson shall have the right at any time to stop all public comment, when, in the chairperson's discretion, such input violates the provisions of this section, or is otherwise not relevant to the agenda item before the board. Public comment shall be limited to five minutes for any one speaker regarding an agenda item. If the board allows public comment on an agenda item, members of the public, as an alternative to speaking on the item, may submit written materials to the board regarding the agenda item.
(2)
Public comments and participation on non-agenda items. The board may allow public comments on non-agenda items. Individuals desiring to address the board of commissioners regarding a non-agenda item are required to sign in. Public comments and participation on non-agenda items shall be received at the end of the meeting. Public comment shall be limited to three minutes for any one speaker regarding a non-agenda item. The chairperson shall have the right at any time to stop all public comment, when, in the chairperson's discretion, such input violates the provisions of this section.
(3)
Decorum. Members of the public shall not make inappropriate or offensive comments at a board meeting and are expected to comply with rules of decorum that are established for commissioners. Individuals who violate any rules of the board may be ruled out of order by the chairperson or on a point of order made by a commissioner. A majority vote of the board will rule on the point of order. An individual who violates the rules of decorum may be removed from the meeting at the direction of the chairperson.
(4)
Public hearing; generally. The board may schedule public hearings for the purpose of soliciting public comment on any subject of interest to the board. Hearings may be held immediately prior to or following a meeting of the board, or at such other places and times as the board may determine.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-11, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-12. - Parliamentarian.
The county attorney shall serve as the parliamentarian for board meetings.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-12, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-13. - Amendments to rules.
Any amendments to the rules of order must be submitted by a commissioner in writing to the county manager three business days before a regular meeting of the board. The proposed amendment shall be included in the agenda for that meeting and distributed to all board members. All amendments require a two-thirds vote of the board to be adopted.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-13, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-14. - Regular meetings.
Regular meetings of the board of commissioners shall be held on the first Tuesday of each month. All regular meetings shall be held in the courtroom of the county courthouse. A notice containing the meeting information shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the general public at the regular meeting place of the board. The times and dates of meetings may be changed by giving notice to the legal organ in said county not later than three days prior to the scheduled meeting date. The holding of emergency meetings shall be held in accordance with the provisions herein.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-14, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-15. - Special meetings and rescheduled regular meetings.
A regular meeting may be canceled, rescheduled or moved to a new location within the county site by the chairperson for any reason. Other special meetings may be scheduled by the chairperson or at the request of two commissioners. Whenever a rescheduled regular meeting or any other special meeting is to be held at a time or place other than the regularly scheduled time or place, written notice of the change shall be posted for at least 24 hours at the place of the regular meetings. In addition, written or oral notice shall be given by the clerk at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting to either the legal organ of the county or newspaper having a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ, and to each member of the county board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-15, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-16. - Emergency meetings.
When emergency circumstances occur, the board may hold a meeting with less than 24 hours' notice to the public. When such meetings are to be held, the clerk shall provide notice to the legal organ of the county or a newspaper with general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ, and to each member of the county board of commissioners as soon as possible. The notice shall include the subjects expected to be considered at the meeting. In addition, the minutes shall reflect the reason for the emergency meeting and the nature of the notice given to the media.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-16, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-17. - Executive sessions.
(a)
Executive sessions of the board may be held for the purpose of conducting business excepted from public access requirements as authorized by O.C.G.A. §§ 50-14-2 and 50-14-3. Where a meeting of the board is devoted in part to matters within the authorized exceptions to public access requirements, any portion of the meeting not subject to any such exceptions shall be open to the public. No executive session shall be held except pursuant to a majority affirmative vote of the board of commissioners taken in a public meeting.
(b)
The minutes of the public meeting shall reflect the names of the commissioners present, those voting for the executive session and the specific reasons for the executive session. Minutes of the executive session may be maintained by the clerk of the board of commissioners at the direction of the chairperson. Any such minutes shall be maintained in a confidential file and shall not be subject to disclosure, except that disclosures of such portions of minutes identifying real estate to be acquired by the board may only be delayed until such time as the acquisition of the real estate has been completed, terminated, or abandoned, or court proceedings have been initiated.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-17, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-18. - Suspending the rules of order.
Rules of order may be suspended in the case of an emergency. A motion to suspend the rules requires a second, is debatable, and requires a two-thirds vote of the board. Rules governing quorum, voting methods and requirements, the notification to commissioners of meetings and rules necessary for compliance with state law cannot be suspended.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-18, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-19. - Visual and sound recordings.
Visual, sound, and visual and sound recordings shall be permitted for all public meetings.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-19, 12-5-2017)
Secs. 2-20—2-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CODE OF ETHICS

Sec. 2-41. - Purpose.
The purpose of this code of ethics is to:
(1)
Encourage high ethical standards in official conduct by county officials;
(2)
Establish guidelines for ethical standards of conduct for all such officials by setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible with the interest of the county;
(3)
Require disclosure by such officials of private financial or other interests in matters affecting the county; and
(4)
Serve as a basis for disciplining those who refuse to abide by its terms.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-41, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-42. - Scope.
(a)
The provisions of this code of ethics shall be applicable to all elected or appointed county officials.
(b)
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, state law shall be controlling in the event of an actual conflict with the provisions of this code of ethics. This article shall be interpreted to supplement, and not replace, said provisions of state law.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-42, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-43. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
County official or official, unless otherwise expressly defined, does not include county employees but does mean the members of the county commission, county clerk, and all other persons holding positions designated by the County Code of Ordinances, as amended.
Decision means any ordinance, resolution, contract, franchise, formal action or other matter voted on by the board of commissioners, as well as the discussions or deliberations of the board of commissioners, which can or may lead to a vote or formal action by that body.
Employee means any person who is a full-time or part-time employee of the county.
Immediate family means the spouse, mother, father, grandparent, brother, sister, son or daughter of any county official related by blood, adoption or marriage. The relationship by marriage shall include in-laws.
Incidental interest means an interest in a person, entity or property which is not a substantial interest as defined herein and which has insignificant value.
Remote interest means an interest of a person or entity, including a county official, which would be affected in the same way as the general public. For example, the interest of an official in the property tax rate, general county fees, county utility charges or a comprehensive land use ordinance or similar matters is deemed remote to the extent that the official would be affected in common with the general public.
Substantial interest means an interest, either directly or through a member of the immediate family, in another person or entity, where:
(1)
The interest is ownership of five percent or more of the voting stock, shares or equity of the entity, or ownership of $5,000.00 or more of the equity or market value of the entity;
(2)
The funds received by the person from the other person or entity during the previous 12 months either equal or exceed:
a.
$5,000.00 in salary, bonuses, commissions or professional fees, or $5,000.00 in payment for goods, products or services; or
b.
Ten percent of the recipient's gross income during that period, whichever is less;
(3)
The person serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of directors or other governing board of a for-profit entity other than a corporate entity owned or created by the board of commissioners; or
(4)
The person is a creditor, debtor, or guarantor of the other person or entity in an amount of $5,000.00 or more.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-43, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-44. - Prohibitions.
(a)
No county official shall use such position to secure special privileges or exemptions for the county official or others, or to secure confidential information for any purpose other than official duties on behalf of the county.
(b)
No county official, in any matter before the commission or other county body relating to a person or entity in which the official has a substantial interest, shall fail to disclose for the record such interest prior to any discussion or vote or fail to recuse the county official's self from such discussion or vote as applicable, including that member's position on any other governmental agency or interest in a private entity.
(c)
No county official shall act as an agent or attorney for another in any matter before the board of commissioners or other county body.
(d)
No county official shall directly or indirectly receive, or agree to receive, any compensation, gift, reward, or gratuity in any matter or proceeding connected with, or related to, the duties of the county official's office, except as may be provided by law.
(e)
No county official shall enter into any contract with, or have any interest in, either directly or indirectly, the county, except as authorized by state law.
(f)
All public funds shall be used for the general welfare of the people and not for personal economic gain.
(g)
Public property shall be disposed of in accordance with state law.
(h)
No county official shall solicit or accept other employment to be performed, or compensation to be received, while still a county official if the employment or compensation could reasonably be expected to impair such official's judgment or performance of county duties.
(i)
If a county official accepts or is soliciting a promise of future employment from any person or entity who has a substantial interest in a person, entity or property which would be affected by any decision upon which the official might reasonably be expected to act, investigate, advise, or make a recommendation, the official shall disclose the fact to the board of commissioners and shall recuse the county official's self and take no further action on matters regarding the potential future employer.
(j)
No county official shall use county facilities, personnel, equipment or supplies for private purposes, except to the extent that such are lawfully available to the public.
(k)
No county official shall grant or make available to any person any consideration, treatment, advantage or favor beyond that which it is the general practice to grant or make available to the public at large.
(l)
A county official shall not directly or indirectly make use of, or permit others to make use of, official information not made available to the general public for the purpose of furthering a private interest.
(m)
A county official shall not use a county official's position in any way to coerce, or give the appearance of coercing, another person to provide any financial benefit to such official or person within the official's immediate family, or those with whom the official has business or financial ties amounting to a substantial interest.
(n)
A county official shall not order any goods and services for the county without prior official authorization for such an expenditure. No county official shall attempt to obligate the county nor give the impression of obligating the county without proper prior authorization.
(o)
No county official, unless allowed by state law, may serve on any other public commission, board, council or authority.
(p)
No county official shall violate any laws of the United States, the state or the county, other than a traffic offense.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-44, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-45. - Conflict of interest.
(a)
A county official may not participate in a vote or decision on a matter affecting an immediate family member or any person, entity, or property in which the official has a substantial interest.
(b)
A county official who serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of directors of a nonprofit entity must disclose said county official's interest in said entity to the board of commissioners prior to participating in a vote or decision regarding funding of the entity by or through the county.
(c)
Where the interest of a county official in the subject matter of a vote or decision is remote or incidental, the county official may participate in the vote or decision and need not disclose the interest.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-45, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-46. - Receipt of complaints.
(a)
All complaints against county officials shall be filed with the county clerk. Upon receipt of a complaint in proper form, the county clerk shall serve a copy of the complaint to the county official or officials charged in the complaint and to the county attorney within three business days. Service may be by personal service, by certified mail, return receipt requested, by statutory overnight delivery or by e-mail, confirmed by the recipient.
(b)
All complaints shall be submitted and signed under oath, shall be legibly drawn and shall clearly address matters within the scope of this article.
(c)
Upon receipt of a complaint in proper form, the county attorney shall review it to determine whether the complaint is unjustified, frivolous, patently unfounded or fails to state facts sufficient to invoke the disciplinary jurisdiction of the county. The county attorney is empowered to dismiss, in writing, complaints that the county attorney determines are unjustified, frivolous, patently unfounded or fail to state facts sufficient to invoke the disciplinary jurisdiction of the county; provided, however, that a rejection of such complaint by the county attorney shall not deprive the complaining party of any action such party might otherwise have at law or in equity against the county official. For complaints that are not dismissed, the county attorney is empowered to collect evidence and information concerning any complaint and add the findings and results of the county attorney's investigations to the file containing such complaint.
(d)
Upon completion of the county attorney's investigation of a complaint, the county attorney shall present findings to the board of commissioners, not to include the member against which the complaint has been filed.
(e)
The board of commissioners is empowered to conduct investigations, to take evidence, and to hold hearings to address the subject matter of a complaint.
(f)
The board of commissioners is empowered to adopt forms for formal complaints, notices, and any other necessary or desirable documents within its jurisdiction where the board of commissioners has not prescribed such forms.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-46, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-47. - Hearing; decision.
(a)
The board of commissioners shall hold a hearing within 60 calendar days after filing of the complaint. The board of commissioners shall conduct hearings in accordance with the procedures and regulations it establishes, but, in all circumstances, at least one hearing shall include the taking of testimony and the cross-examination of available witnesses.
(b)
The decision of the board of commissioners shall be rendered within seven calendar days after completion of the final hearing. At any hearing held by the board of commissioners, the county official who is the subject of inquiry shall have the right to written notice of the hearing and the allegations at least seven calendar days before the first hearing, to be represented by counsel, to hear and examine the evidence and witnesses and, to oppose or try to mitigate the allegations. The county official subject to the inquiry shall also have the right, but not the obligation, of submitting evidence and calling witnesses. Failure to comply with any of the time deadlines in this section shall not invalidate any otherwise valid complaint or in any way affect the power or jurisdiction of the hearing officer to act upon any complaint.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-47, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-48. - Right to appeal.
(a)
Any county official or complainant adversely affected by the findings or recommendations of the hearing officer may obtain further judicial review of such decision, as provided in this section.
(b)
An action for judicial review may be commenced by filing an application for a writ of certiorari in the Superior Court of Glascock County within 30 days after the decision of the hearing officer. The filing of such application shall act as supersedeas.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-48, 12-5-2017)
Sec. 2-49. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this article is subject to:
(1)
Public reprimand or censure; or
(2)
Request for resignation.
(Ord. No. 2017-02, § 2-49, 12-5-2017)
