DIVISION 3. - USES
Subdivision I. - In General

Sec. 54-140. - Use districts.
For the purpose of this chapter, the city is hereby divided into the following use districts:
EXPAND
R-1 Single-Family Residential District.
R-2 Single-Family Residential District.
R-3 Moderate Density Residential District.
R-4 Multiple-Family Residential District.
MHP Mobile Home Park District.
O-P Office Professional District.
C-1 Neighborhood Business District.
C-2 Highway Business District.
M-1 Light Industrial District.
M-2 Heavy Industrial District.
A-1 Agricultural District.
  (Ord. No. 220, art. IV, § 401, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 54-141. - Official zoning map.
(a)
The location and boundaries of the districts listed in section 54-140 are hereby established as shown on a map entitled "Official Zoning Map of the City of Oakwood, Georgia." Said map, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(b)
The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the mayor, attested by the city clerk, and bear the seal of the city or that of a notary public under the following words: "This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in Article IV of the Zoning Ordinance, City of Oakwood, Georgia," together with the date of the adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived. The official zoning map may be reproduced so that additional copies of said map may be made available, upon proper certification as described in this subsection.
(c)
If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the applicable laws of the state, changes are made in boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official zoning map, such changes shall be entered on the official zoning map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the city commission, with appropriate entry or indication of such amendment on the official zoning map. The formal action by the city commission to change the boundaries of the official zoning map shall be sufficient to make such zoning district change effective. Upon such changes, the zoning administrator is authorized to enter such changes on the official zoning map, and readoption of the said map shall not be required.
(d)
No changes of any nature shall be made in the official zoning map or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this chapter. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
(e)
Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning map which may from time to time be made or published, the official zoning map shall be located in the office of the zoning administrator and shall be the final authority as to the current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings, and other structures in the city.
(Ord. No. 220, art. IV, § 402, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 54-142. - Replacement of official zoning map.
(a)
In the event that the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and additions, the city council may adopt a new official zoning map which shall supersede the prior official zoning map. The new official zoning map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions in the prior official zoning map, but no such correction shall have the effect of amending the original official zoning map or any subsequent amendment thereof. The new official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the mayor, attested by the city clerk, and bear the seal of the city or a notary public under the following words:
"This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes and replaces the Official Zoning Map adopted (date of adoption of map being replaced) as part of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Oakwood, Georgia."
(b)
Unless the prior official zoning map has been lost, or has been totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof remaining shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or amendment.
(Ord. No. 220, art. IV, § 403, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 54-143. - Interpretation of district boundaries.
District boundaries shall be interpreted as follows:
(1)
Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline of streets or highways, street right-of-way lines or railroad right-of-way lines or such lines extended, such centerline, street right-of-way lines, or railroad right-of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(2)
Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the corporate limit line of the city, such corporate limit line shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(3)
Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following property lines or such lines extended, such property lines or such lines extended, as indicated by boundary survey, deed or legal description maintained in the official file of said zoning adoption or amendment, if available, shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(4)
Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline of streambeds or river beds, such centerline shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(5)
In the case where the exact location of a boundary cannot be determined by the foregoing methods, the city council shall, upon application, determine the location of the boundary.
(Ord. No. 220, art. IV, § 404, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 54-144. - District boundary line divides a lot of single ownership.
Where a boundary line as appearing on the official zoning map divides a lot in single ownership at the time of the enactment of these regulations, the requirements for the district in which the greater portion of the lot lies may be extended to the balance of the lot without recourse or amendment procedure, provided that this provision shall not apply to a double frontage lot. In the case of a double frontage lot, the restrictions of the district applying to the adjoining lots which front on the same street as the lot frontage in question shall apply.
(Ord. No. 220, art. IV, § 405, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 54-145. - Designation after street abandonment.
Where a public street, alley or other right-of-way is officially vacated or abandoned, the regulations applicable to the property to which it reverted shall apply to such vacated or abandoned public street, alley, or right-of-way.
(Ord. No. 220, art. IV, § 406, 4-11-1994)
Secs. 54-146—54-173. - Reserved.
Subdivision II. - Nonconforming Lots, Buildings and Uses

Sec. 54-174. - Purpose and intent.
(a)
Within the districts established by this chapter, there exist certain incompatible lots, buildings, structures, signs and uses of land which were lawful before these regulations were adopted but which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of these regulations or future amendments.
(b)
It is the intention of this subdivision to permit these nonconformities to continue but that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for variances or for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
(Ord. No. 220, art. V, § 501, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 54-175. - Nonconforming lots of record.
(a)
In any district, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of these regulations, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings or any other permitted use may be erected on any single lot of record existing at the effective date of adoption or amendment of these regulations, even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, applicable to the particular district involved, provided that building setbacks are observed and the lot shall otherwise conform to the regulations for the district in which the lot is located.
(b)
Except for those lots described in subsection (a) of this section, if two or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots with continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of adoption or amendment of these regulations, and if all or part of the lots do not meet the requirements for lot width and area as established by these regulations, the lands involved shall be considered an undivided parcel for the purposes of these regulations, and no portion of said parcel shall be used which does not meet lot width and area requirements established by these regulations, nor shall any division of the parcel be made which leaves remaining any lot with width or area below the applicable requirements.
(Ord. No. 220, art. V, § 502, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 54-176. - Continuance of nonconforming use.
(a)
The lawful use of any building, structure, sign or land existing at the time of enactment of these regulations may be continued, subject to the limitations of section 54-177, even though such use does not conform with the provisions of these regulations, except that the use of a principal building, structure or land containing a nonconforming use shall not be:
(1)
Changed to another nonconforming use;
(2)
Re-established after discontinuance or abandonment for six months. For purposes of this section, a use shall be considered discontinued or abandoned if it has not been actively engaged in any principal nonconforming activity during the subject period;
(3)
Expanded, enlarged or extended, unless such use is changed to a use permitted in the district in which such use is located;
(4)
Rebuilt, altered or repaired after damage exceeding 50 percent of its replacement value at the time of destruction as determined by the building official, and provided such rebuilding, alteration or repair is completed within one year of such damage;
(5)
Moved in whole or in part to any other portion of the lot occupied by such use, except in conformity with these regulations.
(b)
Nothing in this article shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition any building, structure, or portion thereof, declared to be unsafe by an official charged with protecting the public safety or health, upon order of such official.
(c)
Changes in ownership or tenancy of a nonconforming use are permitted.
(Ord. No. 220, art. V, § 503, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 54-177. - Expansion of nonconforming buildings.
A nonconforming building which contains a conforming use may be expanded, enlarged or extended, provided that any such additions meet the applicable yard and building setbacks, buffer and landscape strip requirements and all other regulations for the district in which it is located. This section shall not, however, be construed as to authorize the expansion of a nonconforming building for a use which is not permitted by the regulations for the district within which such building is located.
(Ord. No. 220, art. V, § 504, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 54-178. - Buildings under construction.
Nothing in this subdivision shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the adoption of the ordinance from which these regulations are derived.
(Ord. No. 220, art. V, § 505, 4-11-1994)
Secs. 54-179—54-209. - Reserved.
Subdivision III. - Off-Street Parking, Loading and Access Requirements

Sec. 54-210. - Off-street parking and loading spaces required.
modified
(a)
Off-street automobile parking and loading spaces shall be provided, as specified in this subdivision, for uses and structures hereafter established in all districts at the time of initial construction of any principal building, unless otherwise exempted from this subdivision. For developments phased in timing, parking and loading requirements may also be phased in accordance with the requirements applying for each particular time phase of development.
(b)
Any building or use that is subsequently enlarged or converted to another use shall meet the off-street parking and loading space requirements of this subdivision, for the enlarged or new use.
(c)
Required parking and loading spaces shall be maintained and shall not be encroached upon by refuse containers, signs or other structures, unless an equal number of spaces are provided elsewhere in conformance with these regulations.
(d)
Required parking and loading spaces shall be provided with vehicular access to a public street or alley.
(e)
Off-street parking and loading facilities required shall be located contiguous to the principal building or use. However, as much as 25 percent of the required number of parking spaces may be located within 200 feet of the principal building or use, provided proof of ownership of such premises is provided to the zoning administrator. Such distance shall be measured between the nearest point of the parking facility and the nearest point of the principal building or use. If this option of utilizing nearby parking is utilized, then the parking area may not be discontinued or otherwise converted to another is utilized meets the minimum required number of off-street parking spaces.
(f)
All residential driveways, excluding apartments, shall be a minimum of 26 feet from the back of sidewalk to the face of the garage as measured along the shortest length of the driveway.
(g)
All residential units, excluding apartments, shall have at a minimum, a two-car garage.
(Ord. No. 220, art. VI, § 601, 4-11-1994; Ord. No. 2022-CO-03-829, § 2, 6-13-2022; Ord. No. 2023-CO-03-853, § 3, 4-10-2023)
Sec. 54-211. - Minimum number of off-street parking spaces required.
The minimum number of required off-street parking spaces for each type of permitted use shall be as indicated in the following table. For uses not specifically listed, the off-street parking requirements shall be those of the most similar use as determined by the zoning administrator. When the application of these parking requirements results in a fractional space requirement, the fractional space requirement shall be construed to mean one additional space.
EXPAND
Use Classification Minimum Parking Space Requirements
Amusement park 1 square foot of parking for each square foot of public activity area
Apartment and other multiple-family residential uses 1 space per bedroom plus four spaces per leasing office and ten spaces per clubhouse or recreation center and two overflow parking spaces for every ten units.
Art gallery 1 space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area
Auction facility 1 space for each four patron seats
Automobile service and repair 1 space for each 150 square feet of gross floor area
Auditorium, stadium, assembly hall, gymnasium or community center 1 space per four fixed seats in largest assembly room or area
Auto parts store 3 1/3 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area
Automobile sales 6 spaces per 1,000 square feet of showroom gross floor area, plus one for each employee and one additional parking space for each service bay. Such parking spaces shall be for the exclusive use of customers and employees and shall not be used for sales
Automobile service and repair 1 space for each 150 square feet of gross floor area
Bank or financial institution 1 space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
Barbershop and beauty shop 2 spaces for each operator or chair
Bed and breakfast inn 1 space per guest room plus one space for each permanent resident
Billiard hall, amusement arcade 1 space for each 200 feet of gross floor area
Boardinghouse or rooming house 1 space for each guestroom plus one additional space for each manager or resident owner
Bowling alley 4 spaces for each alley plus one space for each employee
Church or place of worship 1 space per three fixed seats in largest assembly room
Convenience retail store 1 space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
Dance studio or school 1 space for each employee plus one space per 150 square feet of gross floor area
Day care center 1 space for each eight children, plus one space per employee
Duplex 1 space per bedroom
Elderly housing 1 space per two bedrooms
Exterminator 1 space per 800 square feet of gross floor area
Funeral home or mortuary 1 space for each four seats in largest assembly room
Furniture or appliance store 1 space per 800 square feet of gross floor area
Gasoline service station 2 spaces per gasoline pump at the pump plus three spaces per service bay
Golf course (exclusive of pro shop or restaurant) 3 spaces for each hole plus one space for each employee
Hardware store 3 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor plan
Health club, spa 1 space for each 150 square feet of gross floor area
Hospital, clinic, nursing home 1 space for each two beds plus one space for each staff doctor, plus one space for each two employees (nondoctors)
Hotel, motel 1 space for each guest room plus one space for each two employees on largest shift
Indoor weapons range 2 spaces for each shooting lane or alley plus one space for each employee
Industrial or manufacturing 2 spaces for each three employees on largest shift
Laundry, self service 1 space for each two washer-dryer combinations
Library, museum 1 space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
Lodge, club 1 space for each three seats in largest assembly room
Marina 1 space for each boat slip
Miniature golf course 2 spaces per hole
Mobile home, mobile home park 2 spaces per dwelling unit plus one space for each on-duty manager and additional spaces for public park or use areas
Office, general or professional 1 space for each 250 square feet of gross floor area
Office, medical or dental 6 spaces per practitioner
Personal service establishment 1 space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
Post office 1 space per 150 square feet of gross floor area
Restaurant or lounge 1 space for each 100 square feet of gross floor area, plus one additional space for every four outside seats
Retail business, indoor 1 space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
Retail business, outdoor 1 space for each 500 square feet of open sales/display area, plus one space per employee
Sanitarium, rest and convalescent home, personal care home 1 space for each four patient beds plus one space for each doctor and staff member
School, elementary 2 spaces per classroom and administrative or staff person
School, college, trade, vocational, or high school 10 spaces per classroom plus one space for each administrative or staff person
Self-service storage, facility mini warehouse 1 space for each 20 storage stalls, plus two spaces for resident manager's office
Shopping center 1 space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
Single-family residence 1 space per bedroom
Skating rink 1 space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
Theater, cinema 1 space for each three seats
Veterinarian, animal hospital 4 spaces for each practitioner
Wholesale, merchandise 1 space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area
  (Ord. No. 220, art. VI, § 602, 4-11-1994; Ord. No. 2022-CO-03-829, § 2, 6-13-2022)
Sec. 54-212. - Application to multiple shifts of staff/employees.
When an entity covered heretofore in section 54-211 has more than one shift of staff/employees, such term shall mean the number of persons engaged in the activities of the entity on the largest shift only.
(Amd. No. 220, § 1(602(a)), 12-24-1998)
Sec. 54-213. - Handicapped parking requirements.
Each parking area of six or more spaces devoted to uses other than residential shall provide handicapped parking spaces (a minimum of 12 feet in width) counted as a part of the total parking required, in accordance with the following scale:
EXPAND
Total Parking
Requirements Handicapped Spaces
Required
6—25 1
26—50 2
51—75 3
76—100 4
101—150 5
151—200 6
201—300 7
301—400 8
401—500 9
501+ 2% of total required.
  (Ord. No. 220, art. VI, § 603, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 54-214. - Parking space and lot design flexibility.
Individual parking spaces shall be a minimum of 160 square feet. The angle of design for parking spaces and parking lots may be 30, 45, 60, 90 degrees or parallel to the curb, provided that sufficient maneuvering aisle width is provided subject to the approval of the zoning administrator.
(Ord. No. 220, art. VI, § 604, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 54-215. - Minimum number of off-street loading spaces required.
(a)
On the same lot with every building, structure or part thereof, erected or occupied for manufacturing, storage, warehouse, truck freight terminal, goods display, department store, wholesale store, market, hotel, hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning, retail business or other uses similarly involving the receipt or distribution of vehicles, materials or merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained on the lot adequate space for the standing, loading and unloading services to avoid undue interference with public use of streets and alleys.
(b)
Such loading and unloading space, unless otherwise adequately provided for, shall be an area 12 feet by 60 feet, with 14-foot height clearance, and shall be provided according to the following schedule.
(1)
For the uses described in subsection (a) of this section, one loading space shall be provided for the first 25,000 square feet of gross floor area or fractional part thereof.
(2)
Uses in excess of 25,000 square feet shall provide loading spaces according to the following schedule:
EXPAND
Square Feet Number of Spaces
25,001—99,999 2
100,000—159,999 3
160,000—239,999 4
240,000—349,999 5
For each additional 100,000 or fraction thereof 1 additional
  (c)
All plans for off-street loading areas shall be subject to the approval of the zoning administrator.
(Ord. No. 220, art. VI, § 605, 4-11-1994)
Sec. 54-216. - Parking and loading area design requirements; improvement of parking lots.
All parking areas containing more than five spaces shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
They shall be graded to ensure proper drainage, surfaced with concrete or asphalt, and maintained in good condition free of obstructions.
(2)
Parking areas shall not be used for the sale, repair, dismantling or servicing of any vehicle, equipment, materials or supplies.
(3)
Each parking space shall be clearly marked, and directional arrows or signs shall be provided wherever necessary. Markers, directional arrows and signs shall be properly maintained at all times.
(4)
A parking lot pavement setback of ten feet from any public street right-of-way and five feet from any exterior property line shall be provided, except where access points and interconnections to other parcels have been approved. The parking lot pavement setback shall be increased to 25 feet where such lot abuts a residential district. Concrete or other suitable curb stops shall be installed so as to prevent vehicle encroachment onto setback areas.
(5)
Not less than ten percent of the total area devoted to parking shall be landscaped open space.
(6)
Any lighting facilities installed shall be so arranged to prevent the direct illumination of adjacent residential properties or public streets. All lighting facilities installed for shopping center parking areas shall have a minimum maintained illumination of 0.6 footcandles with a uniformity rate of 4:1 (average:minimum).
(7)
A site plan indicating property lines, parking areas, location of parking spaces, pavement set backs, drainage facilities, paving materials, access and other features required to ensure compliance with this subdivision shall be submitted to the zoning administrator. A permit shall be required prior to the construction of new parking areas, or for the expansion or alteration of existing parking areas.
(Ord. No. 220, art. VI, § 606, 4-11-1994; Amd. of 9-22-2008)
Sec. 54-217. - Parking areas must be appropriately zoned.
Parking areas, parking lots or parking garages which constitute the principal use of a lot shall only be permitted in C-1, C-2, M-1, and M-2 zoning districts. In cases where parking areas, parking lots or parking garages exist or are proposed to serve as accessory parking for a particular building or use, regardless of whether such parking is required by this subdivision, such land, area or lot, including all access drives, shall require the same or less restrictive zoning district as that within which such building or use it serves is located. Similarly, in cases where accessory parking serves a building or use which requires, or was approved as, a conditional use, such parking area and access drives shall require the same conditional use approval as that for which such conditional use or building it serves.
(Ord. No. 220, art. VI, § 607, 4-11-1994)
Secs. 54-218—54-242. - Reserved.
Subdivision IV. - Reserved[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— At the request of the city, the provisions of Subdivision IV, §§ 54-243—54-258, pertaining to signs have been deleted.

Secs. 54-243—54-279. - Reserved.
