ARTICLE XIII. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 131. - Enforcing Officer.
The provisions of this Ordinance shall be administered and enforced by the Codes Enforcement Officer of the City of Bowdon. His duties shall include the administration of inspecting premises, and issuing building permits, and issuing zoning compliance certificates, for uses and buildings that meet the requirements of this Ordinance and other ordinances of the City of Bowdon.
Sec. 132. - Certificate of Zoning Compliance.
1.
At any time a person applies for a building permit in the City of Bowdon or intends to change the use of a parcel of land located in the City of Bowdon, Georgia he shall obtain a certificate of zoning compliance issued by the Codes Enforcement Officer certifying that the proposed structure, land use or alteration complies with the provisions of this Ordinance. The certification of zoning compliance will be noted on the building permit.
2.
Each application for a certificate of zoning compliance shall be accompanied by such information as may be required by the Codes Enforcement Officer to determine whether the proposed structure, land use or alteration is in the conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance: Site plans presenting an accurate record of the existing conditions and proposed uses including property lines, rights-of way, and structures may be required.
3.
If any building is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, moved, converted, or maintained or any building or lot or parcel of land is used in violation of this Ordinance or without obtaining the required certificate of zoning compliance, the Codes Enforcement Officer, or any other appropriate City authority, or any person who would be damaged by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate actions in proceeding to prevent said violation in the case of each such building or use.
Sec. 133. - Penalties
Where work for which a permit is required is started prior to obtaining said permit, any fee which may be specified for the permit in this ordinance shall be doubled, by the payment of such doubled fee shall not relieve any person from fully complying with the requirements of the applicable codes in the execution of the work nor from any other penalties prescribed herein. Furthermore, any person violating a provision of this Ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punished for each violation according to law. Each day such a violation continues shall be deemed a separate violation.
