ARTICLE XIV. - PLANNING COMMISSION
There is hereby created a Planning Commission of Bowdon, Georgia.

Sec. 141. - Membership
The Planning Commission shall consist of seven (7) members who shall be appointed by the City Council for staggered terms of seven (7) years or until their successors are appointed. No member shall hold any elective public office. Any variance shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the initial appointments. Members shall serve without pay but may be reimbursed for any expenses incurred while representing the Planning Commission. The seven (7) members appointed shall be residents and citizens of the City.
Sec. 142. - Procedure.
The Planning Commission shall elect one of its members as Chairman, who shall serve for one year or until he is re-elected or his successor is elected and qualified. The Planning Commission shall appoint a Secretary, who may be a city employee, or a member of the Planning Commission.
Meetings of the Planning Commission shall be held at the call of the Chairman and at such other times as the Planning Commission may determine. The Chairman, or in his absence, the acting Chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Planning Commission shall be open to the public.
The Planning Commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Planning Commission and shall be public record.
Sec. 143. - Powers and Duties
The Planning Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
1.
To monitor all existing and proposed ordinances, laws, rules and regulations which affect the use of land in Bowdon, Georgia.
2.
To monitor the current and future needs of the City of Bowdon with regard to the regulation of land use and development.
3.
Propose amendments to the Bowdon Zoning Ordinance.
4.
Maintain and update the Bowdon Future Land Use Plan so that it may provide a current data base with which decisions on proposed amendments and variance to this Ordinance may be made.
5.
Carry out an ongoing comprehensive land use planning program.
6.
Review all proposed amendments to this Ordinance or the Zoning Maps, conduct public hearings concerning said amendments, and make recommendations to the City Council concerning said amendments.
