Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Bowdon, Georgia," and may be so cited. Such ordinances may also be cited as the "Bowdon Code" or as the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Bowdon, Georgia."
(Code 1974, § 1-1; Code 1991, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Ordinance codification, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances passed by the mayor and council, the following definitions and rules shall be observed, unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council. The ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, when they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter. In all interpretations, the court shall look diligently for the intention of the mayor and council, keeping in view at all times the old law, the evil and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
Bonds. When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing, without seal, is sufficient; and in all bonds where the names of the obligors do not appear in the bond, but are subscribed thereto, they are bound thereby.
Charter. The term "Charter" means the Charter of the City of Bowdon, being 1973 Ga. Laws, page 3654, and any amendments thereto, a copy of which is printed in this volume.
City. The term "city" means the City of Bowdon, in Carroll County, Georgia.
Code. Reference to "this Code," "the Code" or "Code of Ordinances" means The Code of the City of Bowdon, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, both the first and last day shall not be counted, but only one of them shall be counted. If the last day shall fall on a Saturday or Sunday, the person having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise or discharge the same. When the last day prescribed for such action shall fall on a public or legal holiday under O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the person having such privilege or duty shall have through the following day to exercise or discharge the same; provided that, when such following day is a Saturday or Sunday, he shall have through the following Monday to exercise such privilege or discharge such duty.
County. The term "county," "the county" or "this county" means Carroll County, Georgia.
Gender. The masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter.
Highway. The term "highway" means the entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
Mayor and council, city council, council. The terms "mayor and council," "city council" and "council" shall all be construed to mean the mayor and council of the City of Bowdon, Georgia, constituting the governing body of the city pursuant to section 2.01 of the Charter.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Number. The singular or plural number each includes the other, unless the other is expressly excluded.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A., state acts. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended. References to state acts are to such acts as amended.
Officers, departments, etc. Whenever any officer, department, board, commission or other agency is referred to by title alone, such reference shall be construed as if followed by the words "of the City of Bowdon, Georgia."
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" extends and is applied to associations, corporations, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals. Whenever used with respect to any penalty, the term "person," as applied to partnerships or associations, means the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof, as well as the corporation itself.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Roadway. The term "roadway" means that portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" refers to any such roadway separately, but not to all such roadways collectively.
Shall, may. The term "shall" shall be construed as being mandatory; the term "may" shall be construed as being permissive.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of the street between the curb, or the lateral line of the roadway and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
Signature or subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when a person cannot write.
State. The term "state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means the entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Written or in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" includes any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1974, § 1-2; Code 1991, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; "roadway," "sidewalk" and "street" defined, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
(a)
The catchlines of sections of this Code are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
History notes, editor's notes, charter references, cross references and state law references that appear in this Code after sections or subsections or that otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of the Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
Unless specified otherwise, all references to chapters or sections are to chapters or sections of this Code.
(Code 1974, § 1-3; Code 1991, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness.
(2)
Any appropriation ordinance or ordinance providing for the levy of taxes or for an annual budget, or prescribing salaries for city officers and employees.
(3)
Any ordinance annexing territory to the city or excluding territory as a part of the city.
(4)
Any ordinance granting any franchise, permit or other right.
(5)
Any ordinance approving, authorizing or otherwise relating to any contract, agreement, lease, deed or other instrument.
(6)
Any ordinance calling or otherwise relating to any specific election.
(7)
Any ordinance regulating the construction, alteration, repair or moving of buildings, or the issuance of permits therefor, including any ordinance regulating or otherwise relating to electrical, plumbing and gas installations, or any ordinance prescribing minimum housing standards.
(8)
The ordinance adopted on December 11, 1972, establishing a retirement plan for the employees of the city, or any amendment thereto.
(9)
Any ordinance not included in this Code and relating to the licensing of privileges, occupations, businesses, trades, professions and other activities, and levying or imposing license or privilege fees or taxes thereon.
(10)
Any ordinance vacating, opening or dedicating streets and alleys; relating to specific street improvements and assessments therefor or other specific local improvements; relating to the grade or alignment of streets; or naming or renaming streets.
(11)
The zoning ordinance and amendments thereto, and ordinances zoning or rezoning specific property.
(12)
The development ordinance and amendments thereto.
(13)
Any temporary or special ordinance.
(b)
All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
(Code 1974, §§ 1-4, 5-2, 11-1, 15-1, 17-1; Code 1991, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Code does not affect prior offenses, rights, etc.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing, before the effective date of this Code.
(Code 1974, § 1-5; Code 1991, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - General penalty for violations of Code and ordinances.
(a)
In addition to any other penalties allowable under state law, any person violating or failing to comply with any provision of this Code or committing any act or omission to act declared to be a misdemeanor, an offense or unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, shall be punished by fine not exceeding $1,000.00 or imprisonment for not more than six months, or both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(b)
There shall be imposed for every fine levied by the municipal court, for violation of a criminal or traffic law of the state or ordinance of the city, a penalty equal to ten percent of the fine levied including costs.
(c)
At the time of the posting of any bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of the state or ordinance of the city an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted and if the bail or bond is forfeited the ten percent shall be paid over as provided in subsection (d) of this section.
(d)
All funds collected pursuant to this section shall be assessed and collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the duty of collecting monies arising from fines and forfeited bonds and paid over to the mayor and council of this city by the tenth of each month following the month in which the fines are collected. All funds collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited in a special fund designated as the county jail fund.
(e)
All funds collected pursuant to this section shall be expended as provided in O.C.G.A. § 15-21-95.
(Code 1974, § 1-6; Code 1991, § 1-6; Ord. No. 04-1-2016(2) , att.(14-1), 5-9-2016)
State Law reference— Limitation on penalties, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2)(B), (a)(2)(c); additional penalty to be imposed in criminal and traffic cases to provide training to law enforcement officers and prosecuting officials, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; additional penalty assessments for jail construction and staffing, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93; imposition of additional penalty for certain drug offenses, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-100; imposition of additional penalty for offense of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-112; display of driver's license for violations of laws pertaining to traffic and motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11; punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; payments to peace officers annuity and benefit fund from revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.
Sec. 1-7. - Continuing violations of Code and ordinances.
Each day on which any violation of this Code or other ordinance of the city shall continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
(Code 1974, § 1-7; Code 1991, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-8. - Civil relief from violations of Code and ordinances.
No penalty imposed by or pursuant to section 1-6 or any other section of this Code or other ordinance of the city shall interfere with the right of the city to apply to the proper courts of the state for a writ of mandamus, an injunction or other appropriate relief in the case of violations of this Code or other ordinances.
(Code 1974, § 1-8; Code 1991, § 1-8)
Sec. 1-9. - Effective date for ordinances.
Ordinances of the mayor and council which do not provide for their taking effect at a different time take effect immediately after their passage.
(Code 1974, § 1-9; Code 1991, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-10. - Amendments or additions to Code.
(a)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section ___ of The Code of the City of Bowdon, Georgia (or Bowdon Code), is hereby amended to read as follows: …." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(b)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language shall be used: "That The Code of the City of Bowdon, Georgia (or Bowdon Code), is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered ___, which said section reads as follows: …." The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
(Code 1974, § 1-10; Code 1991, § 1-10)
Sec. 1-11. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the mayor and council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the mayor and council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code, and shall also include all amendments to the Charter during the period. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections ___ through ___" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but, in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 1974, § 1-11; Code 1991, § 1-11)
Sec. 1-12. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable and, if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared invalid by the judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the mayor and council without the incorporation in this Code of any such invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1974, § 1-12; Code 1991, § 1-12)
