Chapter 14 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
FOOTNOTE(S):
(8) Cross reference— Environment, ch. 26; floods, ch. 30; planning, ch. 38; roads and bridges, ch. 42; solid waste, ch. 46; subdivisions, ch. 50; zoning, app. A.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BUILDING NUMBERS

Sec. 14-31. - Street address numbers.
(a)
Display required. Every house, mobile home, apartment, business, or building having a street address number assigned to it under the system of numbering in the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county shall display such number in a readily visible manner and in compliance with the requirements of this article. Mobile home parks and apartment complexes, including duplex dwelling structures, shall also be required to have each individual pad, lot number or apartment number displayed in a readily visible manner and in compliance with the requirements of this article.
(b)
Method of display. Assigned street address numbers shall be displayed at the driveway to each structure and the number shall be readily visible from the street by persons traveling along the street in either direction. Such address numbers may be placed on mailboxes or on signs in front of the house, apartment, mobile home, business, or other building, provided that such signs are of a durable type, and are not located more than 50 feet from the curbline, pavement edge, or edge of the travel way of the street in front of the property, and provided that numbers on such sign shall be readily visible from the street by persons traveling along the street in either direction.
(c)
Common Drives. If more than one house, mobile home, business, or other structure share a common drive, the street address numbers shall be displayed at the drive in the manner set forth in subsection (b) of this section, as well as displayed on each house, mobile home, business, or other structure, so it can be readily seen by responding emergency agencies.
(Ord. No. 061102-02, 6-11-2002)
