Chapter 58 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of 12-8-2020, § 1, adopted Dec. 8, 2020, repealed the former Ch. 58, §§ 58-19—58-21, and enacted a new Ch. 58 as set out herein. The former Ch. 58 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 96-2, §§ I—III, adopted Sept. 24, 1996.
State Law reference— Authority of municipalities to provide for garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2); municipal authority to own, operate, maintain water/sewage systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5; local solid waste management plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20; creation of municipal solid waste management authority, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-53; prohibition against public littering, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-43 et seq., O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 58-1. - Administration.
Authority of the city council. The city council shall have charge of the administration of this article. The collection, transportation, and disposal of the city's solid waste as regulated by this article shall be under the supervision and control of the city council. The mayor is authorized, with the approval of the city council, to adopt and promulgate rules and regulations concerning such waste collection, conveyance and disposal, and respecting the size, type, specifications, number and location of all containers and fees charged for special collections. Such rules and regulations shall have the force of law, but shall not be contrary to anything in this article, but supplementary thereto. This article and the rules and regulations of the city promulgated under this article, shall apply to the storage, collection, transportation and disposition of refuse in the city by private collectors, as well as the city solid waste collection service.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020, § 1)
Sec. 58-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial solid waste means all types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other nonmanufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
Composting means the controlled biological decomposition of organic matter into a stable, odor-free humus.
Leachate collection system means a system at a landfill for collection of the leachate which may percolate through the waste and into the soils surrounding the landfill.
Municipal solid waste means any solid waste derived from households, including garbage, trash and sanitary waste in septic tanks, and includes solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels, and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day use recreation areas. The term "municipal solid waste" includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste, but does not include solid waste from mining, agricultural or silvacultural operations or industrial processes or operations.
Municipal solid waste disposal facility means any facility or location where the final disposition of any amount of municipal solid waste occurs, whether or not mixed with or including commercial or industrial solid waste, including, but not limited to, municipal solid waste landfills.
Municipal solid waste landfill means a disposal facility where any amount of municipal solid waste, whether or not mixed with or including commercial waste, industrial waste, nonhazardous sludges or small quantity generator hazardous waste, is disposed of by means of placing an approved cover thereon.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance, other than mining, agricultural and silvacultural operations.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020, § 1)
Secs. 58-3—58-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL

Sec. 58-19. - Residential and commercial service.
All single-family residential units in the city are required to utilize the solid waste collection service of the city for the disposition of refuse. Garbage, tree, shrubbery and lawn trimmings shall be collected once a week. All commercial units are required to utilize the solid waste collection service provided by the city or a service provided by an approved state certified hauler operating under a permit from the city. Nothing in this subsection or anywhere in this article shall be construed as a surrender by the city of its legal authority to franchise commercial collectors of refuse, or to become the sole and exclusive hauler of refuse, including commercial and industrial, in the city.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020, § 1)
Sec. 58-20. - Receptacles and containers required.
Every person in possession, charge or control of any building or premises upon which refuse is accumulated or produced shall be required by this article to provide and keep in a suitable place readily accessible to the solid waste collection crews of the city, or to the private collectors, as the case may be, receptacles and containers approved by the city council as suitable for the storage of all such refuse which will normally accumulate between the established collection dates. The city council shall determine the type, size, specifications, number and location of such receptacles and shall determine whether such receptacles and containers are in a serviceable condition.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020, § 1)
Sec. 58-21. - Placement and disposal of yard trimmings; prohibitions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to place or mix yard trimmings with municipal waste within the city.
(b)
Yard trimmings shall not be disposed of at any municipal solid waste disposal facility having a liner and leachate collection system or requiring vertical expansion located within the city.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020, § 1)
Sec. 58-22. - Sorting, storing, composting and collecting yard trimmings.
(a)
Yard trimmings shall be sorted and stored in such a manner as to facilitate collection, composting or other handling.
(b)
Yard trimmings must be:
(1)
Sorted and stockpiled;
(2)
Chipped;
(3)
Composted;
(4)
Used as mulch; or
(5)
Otherwise beneficially reused or recycled to the maximum extent feasible.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020, § 1)
