Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal Home Rule Act of 1965, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; code of ethics as it pertains to state public officials, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - No deannexations.
No requests for deannexation will be approved.
(Ord. of 9-27-1994, § 5)
Secs. 2-2—2-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LEGISLATIVE BODY

Sec. 2-21. - Municipal government.
The municipal government of the city shall be vested in a mayor and six councilmembers, who shall compose the city council.
Sec. 2-22. - Mayor.
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city. He/she shall see that the ordinances, bylaws, rules and orders of the city council are faithfully executed. The mayor shall preside at all meetings of the city council, but shall have no veto power. The mayor shall have a right to remove any city employee for cause, subject to final approval of the city council either at the next succeeding regular meeting or a special meeting called for the purpose, approving the action of the mayor.
Sec. 2-23. - Council.
The mayor and council shall have the right to do and perform such acts and things as may be necessary or expedient for the conduct of the affairs of the city, and the welfare of its citizens, and such other general powers and authority as are granted to municipalities under the laws of the state, or that may hereafter be granted to municipalities.
Sec. 2-24. - Meetings.
Regular meetings of the city council are held at the city hall or at such other place as may be designated, on a day and at a time determined by the council, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
State Law reference— Open and public meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-25. - Rules of procedure.
Except as otherwise provided, the procedures of the city council shall be governed by the most current edition of Robert's Rules of Order.
Sec. 2-26. - Records and reports.
The city shall keep such records and make such reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
State Law reference— Local governments under the Georgia Records Act, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-99; maintenance of public records, O.C.G.A. § 45-6-1 et seq.
Secs. 2-27—2-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Municipal authority over offices and employments, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2; fair employment practices of state employers, O.C.G.A. § 45-19-20 et seq.; Employees' Retirement System of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 47-2-1 et seq.; and Georgia Firemen's Pension Fund, O.C.G.A. § 47-7-1 et seq.; Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System, O.C.G.A. § 47-5-1 et seq.; Georgia Records Act, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-90 et seq.

Sec. 2-56. - Officer selection.
The mayor and council shall have the right and power to appoint or elect a city physician, a city attorney, a city engineer, a superintendent of construction, a marshal, deputy marshals, and such other officers and employees as necessary.
Sec. 2-57. - Consolidation of offices.
The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for the consolidation of any two or more of said offices in one person.
Sec. 2-58. - Term of employment.
All officers shall hold their employment at the pleasure of the mayor and council.
Sec. 2-59. - Compensation.
The salary of each officer shall be fixed by the mayor and council.
Sec. 2-60. - City clerk; duties.
The city council shall elect a clerk. The clerk shall keep an accurate record and minutes of all meetings of the council. The clerk shall perform all other duties prescribed by the mayor and council. The clerk shall be paid such salary as the mayor and council may deem adequate.
Sec. 2-61. - City treasurer; duties.
The mayor and council shall elect a treasurer of the city; fix the term of office; fix the amount of bond for the office; and fix the salary for the office. The treasurer shall be the custodian of all moneys and securities of the municipality. The treasurer shall keep a correct book account of the same and shall render an accounting thereof, when, and as called for by the city council. The treasurer shall do and perform such duties as the city council may prescribe.
Secs. 2-62—2-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - DEPARTMENTS (RESERVED)

Secs. 2-81—2-103. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS (RESERVED)

Secs. 2-104—2-134. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE (RESERVED)[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Minimum budget, accounting, and auditing requirements for local government budgets and audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; discretionary management and disposal of municipal property, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-2.

Secs. 2-135—2-149. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - CODE OF ETHICS[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of Aug. 14, 2007, did not specify manner of inclusion; hence, inclusion as Art. VII is at the discretion of the editor.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-150. - Definitions.
Censure shall mean a public expression of severe criticism or reproach.
City official shall mean any person who is an elected official of the City of Flemington.
Confidential information shall mean any information, which by law or practice is not available to the general public.
Employee shall mean any person who is a fulltime or parttime employee of the City of Flemington.
Formal reprimand shall mean an action taken by the ethics committee and/or mayor and council against a person or entity found to be in violation of this article issued in writing to the person or entity, chastising the person or entity for the violation.
Government or city shall be construed to mean the City of Flemington, Georgia government.
Immediate family shall mean the employee or city official, spouse and children of said parties.
Private business shall mean any business which employs or is owned by a city official or employee.
Reprimand shall mean an expression of disapproval, either public or private.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-1)
Sec. 2-151. - Acceptance of gifts.
With the exception of campaign contributions which shall be reported in accordance with state laws, no city official shall solicit or accept directly or indirectly anything of value from any person, corporation, or group which:
(1)
Has, or is seeking to obtain, contractual or other business or financial relationships with the city;
(2)
Seeks to have a city official exercise a matter of discretion in his or her favor;
(3)
Seeks to have interests which may be affected by the performance or nonperformance of the official duty of the city official; or
(4)
Has the appearance to influence a city official in the performance of the official's duties.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-1.1)
Sec. 2-152. - Intent.
It is the intent of this section that city officials avoid any action or inaction whether or not specifically prohibited by section 2-152 which might result in, or create the appearance of:
(1)
Using public office for private financial, business, social or fraternal gain;
(2)
Impeding government efficiency or economy; or
(3)
Adversely affecting the confidence of the public in the integrity of the government; or
(4)
Purposefully or intentionally violating laws involving moral turpitude as defined by state law.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-1.2)
Sec. 2-153. - Financial interests of members.
City officials may not:
(1)
Have direct or indirect financial interests that conflict substantially with their responsibilities and duties as government servants; or
(2)
Engage in, directly or indirectly, financial transactions as a result of, or primarily relying upon, information obtained from their office. Aside from these restrictions, city officials are free to engage in lawful financial transactions to the same extent as private citizens.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-1.3)
Sec. 2-154. - Use of public property.
A city official shall not use city government property of any kind for any purpose other than officially approved activities, nor direct employees to use such property for any purpose other than officially approved activities.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-1.4)
Sec. 2-155. - Use of confidential information.
A city official shall not directly or indirectly, make use of, or permit others to make use of, for the purpose of furthering a private interest, official information not made available to the general public.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-1.5)
Sec. 2-156. - Coercion by city official.
A city official shall not use his position in any way to coerce, or give the appearance of coercing, another person, business, entity or group by providing any benefit to them or persons within his immediate family, or those with whom an official has business or financial ties or social ties.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-1.6)
Sec. 2-157. - Voting in matters of personal interest.
A city official shall not vote on an ordinance, amendment, or resolution in a meeting that would directly affect his or her private business interests or property interests; nor such interests of his immediate family.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-1.7)
Sec. 2-158. - Unauthorized purchases.
A city official shall not order any goods and services for the city nor obligate city funds for such payment, without prior official authorization for such expenditure.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-1.8)
Sec. 2-159. - Meetings of the council.
Meetings of the council shall be conducted in accordance with the O.C.G.A., tit. 50, ch. 14, as amended.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-1.9)
Sec. 2-160. - City attorneys used for private business.
A city official shall not use the attorney or attorneys who are under retainer by the city for personal or private business without paying the attorney just compensation.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-1.10)
Sec. 2-161. - Unauthorized use of public employees.
A city official shall not use their superior position to request or require a city employee to:
(1)
Do clerical work on behalf of his family, business, social, church or fraternal interests;
(2)
Purchase goods and services to be used for personal, business, or political purposes;
(3)
Personally work for them without offering just compensation; and/or
(4)
Perform work allegedly for the benefit of the city without prior official authorization.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-1.11)
Sec. 2-162. - Travel expenses.
A city official shall not draw per diem or expense monies from the city to attend a seminar, convention, or conference only to fail to attend the seminar, convention, or conference without refunding the prorata unused per diem or expense monies to the city.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-1.12)
Sec. 2-163. - Penalties.
The code of ethics to be observed by city officials and employees are set forth herein, and any violation thereof shall subject the offender to disciplinary action which may include censure and reprimand, formal or informal, public or private. Power to administer a greater punishment shall include power to administer the lesser.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-1.13)
Secs. 2-164—2-170. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 2-171. - Ethics committee.
The ethics committee shall consist of three members appointed by the council. All members shall be residents of the city and shall serve a two-year term.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-6)
Sec. 2-172. - Receipt of complaints.
(a)
All complaints against city officials shall be filed with the ethics committee. The ethics committee may require that oral complaints, and complaints illegibly or informally drawn, be reduced to a memorandum of complaint in such form as may be prescribed by the city council. A copy of any filed complaint shall be forwarded to the party against whom the complaint is filed.
(b)
Upon receipt of a complaint in proper form, the ethics committee shall review and investigate it to determine whether the complaint is justified, frivolous, patently unfounded or fails to state facts sufficient to invoke the disciplinary jurisdiction of the city council.
(c)
The ethics committee shall be empowered to conduct investigations through hearings and collect evidence and information concerning any complaint.
(d)
Upon completion of its investigation of a complaint, the ethics committee shall be empowered to document their findings and dismiss those complaints which are frivolous, patently unfounded or which fail to state facts sufficient to invoke the disciplinary jurisdiction of the city council, provided, however, that a rejection of such complaint by the ethics committee shall not deprive the complaining party of any action he might otherwise have at law or in equity against the respondent government servant.
(e)
The ethics committee shall be empowered to adopt forms for formal complaints, notices, applications for reinstatement and any other written instruments necessary or desirable under these rules.
(f)
Should the committee determine after a hearing that disciplinary action is warranted, it shall make written findings and recommendations to the city council.
(g)
The official against whom a complaint is filed may present evidence to the ethics committee and/or city council concerning any alleged complaints. The final disciplinary decision and/or penalties shall only be determined after hearing and opportunity to present evidence.
(h)
Employees who are charged with violation of the code of ethics will be given due process according to the city's personnel policies and procedures.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-6.1)
Sec. 2-173. - Additional regulations.
This article shall be cumulative to any other ordinance, resolution or act now existing.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-6.2)
Sec. 2-174. - Right to appeal.
Decisions of the mayor and council pursuant to this Code shall be reviewable by the county superior court upon notice in writing filed within 30 days of receipt of notice of the decision. Review by the superior court shall be limited to inquiry of whether there was any evidence before the mayor and council which supported the decision of mayor and council. Provided however, the council's refusal or failure to take action pursuant to this Code shall not be reviewable by the superior court.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-6.3)
Sec. 2-175. - Conflict of interest.
No elected official, appointed officer, or employee of the city or any agency or political entity to which this chapter applies shall engage in any business or transaction or have a financial or personal interest, direct or indirect, which interferes with the proper discharge of or impairs their judgment or action in the performance of their official duties.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-6.4)
Secs. 2-176—2-180. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CONFLICT OF INTEREST, POLITICAL ACTIVITIES AND CODE OF ETHICS

Sec. 2-181. - Acceptance of gifts, gratuities, special privileges.
(a)
Employees and city officials shall not accept any gifts, loans, rewards, favors, or services that may reasonably tend to improperly influence them in the discharge of their official duties. This limitation is not intended to prohibit the acceptance of articles of negligible value which are distributed generally nor to prohibit loans from regular institutions. It is particularly important that employees and officials guard against relationships which might be construed as or give the appearance of favoritism, coercion, unfair advantage or collusion.
(b)
City officials and employees shall not use or attempt to use, including but not limited to knowledge obtained by or through their employment or by virtue of their position, to secure an economic benefit or advantage, special privilege or exemption for themselves or others.
(c)
City officials and employees shall not accept employment or engage in any business or professional activity which they may reasonably expect would require or induce them to disclose confidential information acquired by them by reason of their official position.
(d)
Employees shall not accept payments from outside sources for professional services (i.e., teaching, instructing, speaking engagements, consulting, honorariums) when such activities are done on city time or when such services pertain to the purchase or sale of city property.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-11)
Sec. 2-182. - Proprietorship of creations.
All plans, designs, reports, specifications, drawings, devices, inventions, and other items produced or created by employees during working hours or through the use of city facilities or equipment or at the request of the city shall be and become the sole property of the city.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-12)
Sec. 2-183. - Confidential information.
City officials and employees shall not disclose confidential information gained by reason of their official position, nor shall they otherwise use such information for their personal gain or benefit.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-13)
Sec. 2-184. - Conflict of interest.
(a)
If an employee of the city is an officer, director, agent or member of, or owns any interest in an entity which is subject to the regulation of, or which has financial commitments with the city, they shall file a sworn statement detailing the interest or commitment with the city clerk.
(b)
Employees shall not transact any business in their capacity as city employees with any business entity of which he or she is an officer, director, agent, member, or in which he or she owns a controlling interest, excluding civic, charitable or religious organizations.
(c)
Employees shall not have personal investments in enterprises which create a conflict or a perceived conflict between their personal interest and public interest. A passive interest by any official or employee in any public or private entity with which interest is five percent or less will not constitute a sufficient interest to raise a presumption or a perceived conflict of interest.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-14)
Sec. 2-185. - Political activity.
(a)
No person employed by the city shall either publicly or otherwise hold themselves out as a candidate in any city election while holding such employment.
(b)
City employees shall not take part in any political management or political campaign for elections of the mayor or city council for the city during any period of time.
(c)
No employee, official or other person shall solicit, orally or by letter, or in any other manner concerned in obtaining any assessments, contributions, or services for any political party from any employee during their duty, service, or work with the city.
(d)
Employees shall not represent the city by wearing any uniform or portion thereof that is issued by the city while he is participating in any campaign at any time.
(e)
The city does not seek to influence employees in their choice of party affiliations or candidates. Therefore, except as provided in subsection (b), nothing contained in this Code shall be construed to restrict the right of any employee to hold membership in or support a political party, to vote as they choose, to express opinions on political subjects or candidates, to maintain political neutrality, to attend political parties after work hours, or to campaign actively during off duty hours in all areas of political activity.
(f)
Employees shall not utilize any city equipment or vehicle in support of any political campaign.
(Ord. of 8-14-2007, § 2-15)
