ARTICLE XI. - DETERMINATION OF UNCLASSIFIED USES

Sec. A. - Procedure; criteria.
In the event an applicant wishes to use property for a use which is not specifically identified under inherent uses, or uses allowed with the approval of a Special Use Permit, and where such use is not specifically prohibited from the district, the following provisions shall apply:
(1)
The applicant shall submit to the Operations Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the City Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the Temporary City Manager, a written request for a determination of the unclassified use.
(a)
The Operations Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the City Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the Temporary City Manager, shall review the request as submitted and determine if the proposed use is of a similar character to the district in which it is proposed.
(b)
If the Operations Manager, of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the City Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the Temporary City Manager, determines that the use is of a similar character and meets the intent of the uses permitted inherently within the district, they shall instruct the Department of Community Development, Planning Division office, of Paulding County, Georgia, to allow said use.
(c)
In the event the Operations Manager, of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the City Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the Temporary City Manager, determines the proposed use in the district is consistent with the character and intent of a Special Use Permit within the district, then the applicant shall apply for a Special Use Permit, with the Department of Community Development, of Paulding County, Georgia, subject to approval in the normal manner.
(2)
If the Operations Manager, of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the City Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the Temporary City Manager, is unable to make the determination within fourteen (14) days, or the applicant chooses to appeal the decision, the following procedure shall apply:
(a)
The Operations Manager, of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the City Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the Temporary City Manager, shall submit to the Planning Commission, of Paulding County, Georgia, and the Attorney, for the Planning Commission, of Paulding County, Georgia, a written request for a determination of the unclassified use at the next regular scheduled Planning Commission, of Paulding County, Georgia, meeting.
(b)
The Planning Commission, of Paulding County, Georgia, and the Attorney, for the Planning Commission, of Paulding County, Georgia, shall review the request as submitted and determine if the proposed use is of a similar character to the district in which it is proposed.
(c)
If the Planning Commission, of Paulding County, Georgia, and the Attorney, for the Planning Commission, of Paulding County, Georgia, determines that the use is of a similar character and meets the intent of the uses permitted inherently within the district, they shall issue and explanation to the Operations Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the City Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the Temporary City Manager, advising the allowance said use, stating the findings.
(d)
In the event the Planning Commission, of Paulding County, Georgia, and the Attorney, for the Planning Commission, of Paulding County, Georgia, determines the proposed use in the district is consistent with the character and intent of a Special Use Permit within the district, then the applicant shall apply for a Special Use Permit subject to approval in the normal manner.
(3)
In no event shall the provisions of this Article be used to allow an incompatible use or a use specifically prohibited by this Ordinance within a certain zoning district.
(4)
Once a use has been allowed or disallowed by the Planning Commission, of Paulding County, Georgia, and or the Operations Manager, of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the City Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the Temporary City Manager, it shall then be considered classified under the appropriate category in the district.
