ARTICLE IX. - LAND USE PERMITS
A Land Use Permit is hereby defined and required for those uses which can ordinarily be carried on out of a residence and lot or other structure without having any significant effect on the neighborhood or area from which such land use is carried on. For example: concrete figurine sales where a single operator is involved; sale of crafts or other items made by the resident; other like and similar uses of a limited nature which are carried on by those who regularly occupy the household and which are not a permissible use as a home occupation.

Sec. A. - Granting of land use permits.
(1)
The Mayor and Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia, is hereby authorized to grant land use permits for businesses compatible with the neighborhood, from which such business or occupation is operated and where no nuisance, as defined in Georgia law, or other significant adverse effect would result to the area or district zoned. Also, the Mayor and Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia, may grant land use permits in commercial areas for structures to be used for dwelling purposes by the proprietor, or manager of the commercial use.
Sec. B. - Application procedures and considerations.
(1)
An application for a Land Use Permit shall be submitted on forms provided by the Department of Community Development, Planning and Zoning Division, of Paulding Council, Georgia, as provided for in this Ordinance, and shall be advertised in the same manner as applications for rezoning. Public hearings will be held in the same manner as applications for rezoning are conducted. All applications shall be accompanied by an application fee as established by the Board of Commissioners, of Paulding County, Georgia.
(2)
In no event shall the governing authority grant a land use permit for a period of time in excess of twenty-four (24) months except on re-application, re-advertisement, and public hearing.
(3)
The applicant or operator must reside full time at the residence where the land use permit is granted if the property is located in a platted subdivision.
(4)
If the application is for use of a portion of a business for residential use, the proprietor or landlord must reside thereon.
(5)
The governing authority shall consider, at a minimum, the following in its determination of whether or not to grant a land use permit:
(a)
Safety, health, welfare and moral concerns involving the surrounding neighborhood;
(b)
Parking and traffic considerations;
(c)
Number of non-related employees;
(d)
Number of commercial and business deliveries;
(e)
The impact of the business on the surrounding neighborhood as it relates to increased noise, traffic, pollution, safety, and general welfare of the area;
(f)
Whether the proposed business is compatible with existing conditions in the neighborhood;
(g)
The hours of operation;
(h)
Existing business uses in the vicinity;
(i)
Circumstances surrounding neighborhood complaints;
(j)
Type of use and intensity of proposed business; and
(k)
Location of use within the neighborhood.
