ARTICLE IV. - ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS

Sec. A. - Division into districts.
For the purpose of this Ordinance, the City of Hiram, Georgia, is divided into the following zoning districts designated as follows:
EXPAND
(1) A-1 Agricultural
(2) R-2 Suburban Residential District
(3) R-2 with Sewer Sewered Suburban Residential District
(4) R-4 Multi-Family Non-Fee Simple (Rental) Unit Dwellings
(5) R-5 Duplex District
(6) R-6 Manufactured Home Park District
(7) R-7 Multi-Family Fee Simple (Non-Rental) Unit Dwellings
(8) PRD Planned Residential Development
(9) LRO Low Rise Office
(10) O-I Office/Institutional
(11) NB Neighborhood Business
(12) B-1 General Business
(13) PSC Planned Shopping Center
(14) B-2 Highway Business
(15) I-1 Light Industrial
(16) I-2 Heavy Industrial
(17) LDQRD-O Low Density Quality Residential Development Overlay District
(18) LDQRD Low Density Quality Residential Development District
  Sec. B. - District boundaries.
The boundaries of each district are as shown on a map (or series of maps) which is entitled "Hiram Zoning Map, Hiram, Georgia" and certified by the Clerk of the City of Hiram, Georgia. Said map(s) and all explanatory matter thereon are hereby made a part of and incorporated into this ordinance. Said map(s) shall be retained in the office of the Operations Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia.
Sec. C. - Rules for determining boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the location of the boundaries of any zoning district as shown on the Official Zoning Map of the City of Hiram, Georgia, the following rules shall apply:
(1)
Where a zoning district boundary line is shown as approximately following a corporate limits line, a militia district line, a land lot line, a lot line, or the center line of a city street, a county road, a state highway, an interstate highway, or a railroad right-of-way or such lines extended, then such lines shall be construed to be the zoning district boundary lines.
(2)
Where a zoning district boundary line is shown as being set back from a city street, a county road, a state highway, an interstate highway, or a railroad right-of-way, and approximately parallel thereto, then such zoning district boundary line shall be construed as being at the scaled distance from the center line of the city street, county road, state highway, interstate highway, or railroad right-of-way and as being parallel thereto.
(3)
Where a zoning district boundary line divides a lot, the location of the line shall be the scaled distance from the lot lines. In this situation, the requirements of the zoning district in which the greater portion of the lot lies shall apply to the balance of the lot except that such extension shall not include any part of a lot that lies more than fifty feet beyond the zoning district boundary line.
(4)
In the case of a through lot fronting on two approximately parallel streets that is divided by a zoning district boundary line paralleling the streets, the restrictions of the zoning district in which each frontage of the through lot lies shall apply to that portion of the through lot.
Sec. D. - Establishment and adoption of comprehensive future land use map.
By this Section, the comprehensive future land use map adopted by resolution of the Mayor and Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia, on October 30, 2007, is established as a guide for the Administrative Offices of the government of the City of Hiram, Georgia, concerning proposed land uses, under which the incorporated areas of the City of Hiram, Georgia, are divided into the following land use categories:
(1)
Commercial.
(2)
Green Space.
(3)
Industrial.
(4)
High Density Residential 5 Units Per Acre Maximum.
(5)
Medium Density Residential 3 Units Per Acre Maximum.
(6)
Low Density Residential 2 Units Per Acre Maximum.
Sec. E. - Comprehensive future land use map distinguished from zoning.
The comprehensive future land use map is a guide and is not binding; it does not alter or affect the existing zoning districts in the incorporated limits of the City of Hiram, Georgia, does not effectuate an amendment to the official zoning map, and does not itself permit or prohibit any existing land uses.
