ARTICLE XIV. - ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, AND PENALTIES

Sec. A. - Enforcement of the zoning ordinance.
The provisions of this Ordinance shall be administered by the Operations Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the City Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the Temporary City Manager, and enforced in coordination with the Police Department, of the City of Hiram, Georgia, with the powers provided in the laws of the State of Georgia and in the charter and resolutions of the City of Hiram, Georgia. For the purpose of serving citations for violations of this Ordinance, such citations may be referred to the Police Department, of the City of Hiram, Georgia, for service which shall be heard and determined in the Municipal Court of the City of Hiram, Georgia which decision of the Municipal Court of the City of Hiram, Georgia may be appealed, in writing, within thirty (30) days of the date of such decision to the Superior Court of Paulding County, Georgia.
Sec. B. - Building permit required.
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor to commence the construction of any building, or to commence the moving or alteration of any building, in the City of Hiram, Georgia, which requires a permit in accordance with the policies and procedures of the Department of Community Development, of Paulding County, Georgia, until a permit for such work has been issued, by the Department of Community Development, Permit Division, of Paulding County, Georgia.
Sec. C. - Application for building permit.
All applications to the Department of Community Development, Planning and Zoning Division, of Paulding County, Georgia, for building permits shall be accompanied by a site plan and survey, as applicable; however, accessory buildings located in agriculture and residential areas may be excluded if setbacks and other requirements can be determined. The site plan or survey must include:
(1)
The actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon;
(2)
The size of the building to be erected;
(3)
The location of the building on the lot;
(4)
The location of existing structures on the lot, if any;
(5)
The number of dwelling units the building is designed to accommodate;
(6)
The setback lines of buildings on adjoining lots;
(7)
The layout of off-street parking and loading spaces;
(8)
Such other information as may be requested for determining whether the provisions of this Ordinance are being observed; and
(9)
Such other information as may be requested by the Department of Community Development, Planning and Zoning Division, of Paulding County, Georgia, and the Operations Manager, of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the City Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the Temporary City Manager; and
(10)
Certification by the applicant that he has complied, or will comply with the applicable regulations, and ordinances of the State of Georgia, concerning environment and health, the Development Regulations, of Paulding County, Georgia, flood ordinance, and all other applicable ordinances of the City of Hiram, Georgia.
Sec. D. - Violation and penalties.
Any person, firm, corporation, or any agent, servant, employee, officer, or contractor for any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision, requirement, term, or condition of this Ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, per violation. Each day of any violation of this Ordinance shall constitute a separate offense. The violation of any provision, requirement, term, or condition of this Ordinance shall also constitute a nuisance and any person aggrieved thereby may abate the same or the same may be abated as a public nuisance. Continuous violation thereof may be restrained in the Superior Court of Paulding County, Georgia or in a court of equity having jurisdiction thereof, and such remedy shall not be the exclusive remedy for any violation.
Sec. E. - Prosecution.
Upon citation by the City of Hiram, Georgia Police Department, any violations of this Ordinance shall be adjudicated and determined by the Municipal Court of the City of Hiram, Georgia. The citation shall state the time and place at which the accused is to appear for trial, shall identify the offense with which the accused is charged, shall have an identifying number by which it is filed with the Clerk of the Municipal Court, of the City of Hiram, Georgia, and shall indicate the identity of the accused and the date which citation was issued, and shall be signed by the police officer, of the City of Hiram, Georgia, who issues such citation. The Prosecutor of the Municipal Court of the City of Hiram, Georgia and/or the City Attorney of the City of Hiram, Georgia shall prosecute any such citation on behalf of the City of Hiram, Georgia.
