Chapter 200. - General Provisions

Sec. 200-10. - Purpose.
This Title 2 is intended to implement the purposes set forth in Section 100-20, and further is enacted for the purposes of regulating within the City of Hiram the location, height, bulk, number of stories and size of buildings and other structures; the sizes of yards, courts, and other open spaces; the density and distribution of population; and the uses of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, mining, agriculture, forestry, conservation, sanitation, protection against floods, public activities, and boundaries thereof; defining certain terms used herein; providing for the method of administration and amendment; defining the powers and duties of the Zoning Board of Appeals; providing penalties for violations, repealing conflicting ordinances; and for other purposes.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 200-20. - Authority.
This Title 2 is enacted pursuant to the City of Hiram's authority to adopt plans and exercise the power of zoning granted by the Constitution of the State of Georgia, Article 9, Section 2; pursuant to Chapters 66 and 70 of Title 36 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated; by the Georgia Planning Act of 1989; by City of Hiram's authority to enact regulations and exercise powers granted by local laws and by the City's general police powers; and by other powers and authority provided by applicable federal, state, and local laws.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 200-30. - Incorporation of Official Zoning Map.
200-30.01
The location and boundaries of the Zoning Districts are hereby established as shown on the set of maps entitled "Official City of Hiram Zoning Map" which are hereby made a part of this UDO. The Official City of Hiram Zoning Map may be amended from time to time and shall be kept in the office of the City Zoning Administrator and the Paulding County Community Development Department, Planning and Zoning Division where they shall be maintained and made available for public inspection.
200-30.02
Certified copies of said maps shall be prepared by the City of Hiram City Manager, or their designee.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 200-40. - Division of City into Zoning Districts.
200-40.01
For the purpose of this ordinance, the City of Hiram is divided into the following zoning districts designated as follows:
EXPAND
A-1 Agricultural District
ER Estate Residential District
R-1 Rural Residential District
R-2 Suburban Residential District
R-3 Sewered Suburban Residential District
MPR Master Planned Residential
OSRD Open Space Residential District
RD Duplex District
MHP Manufactured Home Park District
R-55 Active Adult Residential District
LRO Low Rise Office District
O-I Office-Institutional District
NB Neighborhood Business District
B-1 General Business District
PSC Planned Shopping Center District
B-2 Highway Business District
ECR E-Commerce Retail District
ECBP E-Commerce Business Park District
B2CL Business to Consumer Logistics District
AML Advanced Manufacturing Logistics District
I-1 Light Industrial District
I-2 Heavy Industrial District
AB Agricultural Business District
  (Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 200-50. - Rules for Determining Boundaries.
200-50.01
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the location of the boundaries of any zoning district as shown on the Official Zoning Map of the City of Hiram, Georgia, the following rules shall apply:
A.
Where a zoning district boundary line is shown as approximately following a corporate limits line, a militia district line, a land lot line, a lot line, or the center line of a street, a city road, a state highway, an interstate highway, or a railroad right-of-way or such lines extended, then such lines shall be construed to be the zoning district boundary lines.
B.
Where a zoning district boundary line is shown as being set back from a street, a city road, a state highway, an interstate highway, or a railroad right-of- way, and approximately parallel thereto, then such zoning district boundary line shall be construed as being at the scaled distance from the center line of the street, city road, state highway, interstate highway, or railroad right-of-way and as being parallel thereto.
C.
Where a zoning district boundary line divides a lot, the location of the line shall be the scaled distance from the lot lines. In this situation, the requirements of the zoning district in which the greater portion of the lot lies shall apply to the balance of the lot except that such extension shall not include any part of a lot that lies more than 50 feet beyond the zoning district boundary line.
D.
In the case of a through lot fronting on two approximately parallel streets that is divided by a zoning district boundary line paralleling the streets, the restrictions of the zoning district in which each frontage of the through lot lies shall apply to that portion of the through lot.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 200-60. - Relationship to Comprehensive Plan.
200-60.01
Role of the Comprehensive Plan. The Paulding County 2017 Comprehensive Plan, consisting of its Future Development Map and related policies, as may be amended from time to time, is hereby established as the official policy of the City concerning designated future land uses, and as a guide to decisions regarding the appropriate manner in which property shall be zoned in the incorporated area of the City of Hiram.
200-60.02
Relationship between Comprehensive Plan and Zoning. The Paulding County 2017 Comprehensive Plan does not change the existing zoning districts in the City of Hiram, does not effectuate an amendment to the City of Hiram Official Zoning Map, and does not itself permit or prohibit any existing land uses. Instead, the Comprehensive Plan establishes a broad planning policy for current and future land uses and should be consulted as a guideline for making decisions about applications to amend the City of Hiram Official Zoning Map and text of the UDO.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 200-70. - Zoning Certification.
Upon request, the City Manager or his or her designee shall have authority to issue written zoning certifications stating the existing zoning of a particular parcel of property. Requests to the City Manager or the City Manager's designee shall be in writing, accurately identify the subject property, and be accompanied by a fee established by the City Council.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 200-80. - Zoning Classification of Abandoned Right-of-Way.
Undeveloped property which has been formally abandoned by the city will be subject to the same zoning district, including any conditions established prior to annexation. However, if the zoning district within the City of Hiram cannot be determined from existing records or by the City Manager, or their designee, a public hearing, as specified in Section 280-60 will be conducted to establish the appropriate zoning classification for the property.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
