Chapter 10 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to adopt technical codes, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(12); construction standards generally, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.; minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building official means the qualified building official as designated by the city or as employed pursuant to intergovernmental contract with Paulding County.
Sec. 10-2. - Enforcement.
(a)
The building official is hereby authorized to enforce within the city the provisions of this chapter and the state minimum codes adopted herein.
(b)
The building official is further authorized to render interpretations of this Code and the adopted state codes.
Sec. 10-3. - Adoption of technical codes.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided for by subsequent ordinance or another provision of this Code, the technical building and construction codes listed in this section are adopted by reference and incorporated into this Code as if set out fully herein, including the administration and appendix chapters also contained in those codes. The state minimum codes enumerated under O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20(9), as now or hereafter revised or modified pursuant to state law:
(1)
International Building Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments 2007.
(2)
International Residential Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments 2007 and 2008.
(3)
International Fire Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments 2008.
(4)
International Plumbing Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments 2007 and 2008.
(5)
International Mechanical Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments 2007 and 2008.
(6)
International Fuel Gas Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments 2007 and 2008.
(7)
National Electrical Code, 2005 Edition, with Georgia Amendments 2006.
(8)
International Energy Conservation Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Supplements and Amendments 2008.
(9)
International Property Maintenance Code, 2003 Edition, as amended.
(10)
International Existing Building Code (2006 Edition).
(11)
CABO One and Two Family Dwelling Code, Appendix G, as the Standard Swimming Pool Code.
(b)
The county amendments to the codes adopted in subsection (a) of this section are hereby adopted by the city and incorporated by reference as fully as though set out at length herein. Copies of all county amendments are available for public inspection in the office of the county building official.
(c)
Where not in conflict with the provisions of this chapter, county code chapter 18, pertaining to buildings and building regulations, is adopted as an ordinance of the city and is incorporated by reference as fully as though set out at length. A current copy of chapter 18 of the county code shall be maintained in the office of the city clerk where it shall be available for public inspection.
(Code 1996, § 14-31)
Editor's note— The city has entered into an agreement with the county whereby the county will provide building inspections and enforcement of the various construction codes adopted in this section. A copy of such agreement is on file in the office of the city clerk.
Sec. 10-4. - Scope.
Where in any specific case, different sections of these technical codes specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable. A brief description of the general applicability of each code is presented as follows:
(1)
Federal and state authority. The provisions of these technical codes shall not be held to deprive any federal or state agency, or any applicable governing authority having jurisdiction, of any power or authority which it had on the effective date of the adoption of these technical codes or of any remedy then existing for the enforcement of its orders, nor shall it deprive any individual or corporation of its legal rights as provided by law.
(2)
Appendices. Appendices referenced in the code text of the technical codes shall be considered an integral part of the technical codes.
(3)
Referenced standards. Standards referenced in the text of the technical codes shall be considered an integral part of the codes. If specific portions of a standard are denoted by code test, only those portions of the standard shall be enforced. Where code provisions conflict with a standard, the code provisions shall be enforced. Permissive and advisory provisions in a standard shall not be construed as mandatory.
(4)
Safety and maintenance of structures. All buildings, structures, electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems, both existing and new, and all parts thereof, shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary condition. All devices or safeguards which are required by the technical codes when constructed, altered, or repaired shall be maintained in good working order. The owner, or his designated agent, shall be responsible for the maintenance of buildings, structures, electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems.
Sec. 10-5. - Existing buildings.
(a)
Code compliance. Alterations, repairs or rehabilitation work may be made to any existing structure, building, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system without requiring the building, structure, plumbing, electrical, mechanical or gas system to comply with all the requirements of the technical codes provided that the alteration, repair or rehabilitation work conforms to the requirements of the technical codes for new construction. The building official shall determine the extent to which the existing system shall be made to conform to the requirements of the technical codes for new construction.
(b)
Change in occupancy classification. If the occupancy classification of any existing building or structure is changed, the building, electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems shall be made to conform to the intent of the technical codes as required by the building official.
(c)
Historic structures. The provisions of the technical codes relating to the construction, alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, relocation or moving of buildings or structures shall not be mandatory for existing buildings or structure identified and classified by the state or local jurisdiction as historic buildings when such buildings or structures identified and classified by the state or local jurisdiction as historic buildings when such buildings or structures are judged by the building official to be safe and in the public interest of health, safety and welfare regarding any proposed construction, alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, relocation or moving of buildings within fire districts.
Sec. 10-6. - Powers and duties of the building official.
(a)
Generally. The building official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of the technical codes. The building official is further authorized to render interpretations of the technical codes, which are consistent with the intent and purpose of each such code.
(b)
Right of entry. Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the provisions of these technical codes, or whenever the building official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any premises any condition or code violation which makes such building, structure, premises, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the building official may enter such building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the building, structure or premises or to perform any duty imposed upon the building official by these technical codes, provided that if such building or premises are occupied, he shall first present proper credentials and request entry. If such building, structure or premises is unoccupied, he shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of such and request entry. If entry is refused, the building official shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry. When the building official shall have first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building, structure or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as provided in this subsection, to promptly permit entry therein by the building official for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to these technical codes.
(c)
Stop work orders. Upon notice from the building official, work on any building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system that is being done contrary to the provisions of the technical codes or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and if no such person is able to be located at the property, then the notice may be posted on the permit at the site, and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed. Where an emergency exists, the building official shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
(d)
Revocation of permits for misrepresentation of application. The building official may revoke a permit or approval, issued under the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
(e)
Revocation of permits for violation of code provisions. The building official may revoke a permit upon determination that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of these technical codes.
(f)
Unsafe buildings or systems. All buildings, structures, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems that are unsafe, unsanitary, or do not provide adequate egress, or that constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life, or which in relation to existing use, constitute a hazard to safety or health, are considered unsafe buildings or service systems. All such unsafe buildings, structures or service systems are hereby declared illegal and shall be abated by repair and rehabilitation or by demolition in accordance with the provisions of the International Property Maintenance Code.
(g)
Requirements not covered by codes. Any requirements necessary for the strength, stability, or proper operation of an existing or proposed building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not specifically covered by the technical codes, shall be determined by the building official.
(h)
Alternate materials and methods. The provisions of the technical codes are not intended to prevent the use of any material or method of construction not specifically prescribed by them, provided any such alternate has been reviewed by the building official. The building official shall approve any such alternate, provided he finds that the alternate for the purpose intended is at least the equivalent of that prescribed in the technical codes in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety. The building official shall require that sufficient evidence or proof be submitted to substantiate any claim made regarding the alternate.
Sec. 10-7. - Permit required.
Any owner, authorized agent, or contractor who desires to construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a building or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, the installation of which is regulated by the technical codes, or to cause any such work to be done, shall first make application to the county permits and inspections division and obtain the required permit for the work. The permit holder is subject to all county requirements related to such permits.
Sec. 10-8. - Tests.
The county building official may require tests or test reports as proof of compliance. Required tests are to be made at the expense of the owner, or his agent, by an approved testing laboratory or other approved agency.
Secs. 10-9—10-32. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FENCES

Sec. 10-33. - Applicability.
The provisions in this article shall govern the location and height of fences and walls within the city.
Sec. 10-34. - In the front yard.
Fences and walls in the front yard shall not exceed four feet in height. Fences and walls shall be set back at least two feet from the edge of the right-of-way and must conform to clear view triangle standards. Chain link fences are prohibited in the front yard.
Sec. 10-35. - In the side yard.
Fences and walls may be placed on or behind the side property line. No fence or wall shall exceed six feet eight inches in height within the required side yard setback area from a street. In commercial and industrial districts, ten feet shall be the maximum height behind the required street setback and in the side yards not bordering a street.
Sec. 10-36. - In the rear yard.
Fences and walls may be placed on or behind the rear property line. In the residential districts six feet eight inches is the maximum fence or wall height in the rear yard. Provided, that when the rear yard abuts a designated arterial, the maximum height shall be eight feet. In a commercial or industrial district, ten feet is the maximum height.
Sec. 10-37. - Fence and wall construction materials.
Fences and walls constructed pursuant to this chapter shall be constructed of any of the following materials:
(1)
Chain link (vinyl and non-vinyl coated in the colors of green or black).
(2)
Masonry (brick, stuccoed concrete block).
(3)
Wood (generally produced for fence construction).
(4)
Wood-like materials.
(5)
Barbed wire or hog wire in agriculturally zoned areas only.
(6)
Stone.
(7)
Wrought iron.
(8)
Plastic designed to resemble iron fencing.
Sec. 10-38. - Gates required.
In those instances where a fence or wall is erected as an enclosure which restricts access from the front to the rear yard, a gate shall be a minimum of three feet in width. The location of the gate shall be positioned at any point paralleling the front lot line between the side lot line and the principal structure.
Sec. 10-39. - Maintenance.
Every fence or wall shall be maintained in a condition of reasonable repair and shall not be allowed to become and remain in a condition of disrepair, damage, or unsightliness, or constitute a nuisance, public or private. Any such fence or wall which is, or has become dangerous to the public safety, health or welfare, or has become unsightly through improper maintenance or neglect is a public nuisance and the building official shall commence proper proceedings for the abatement thereof.
Sec. 10-40. - Exemptions.
Areas zoned agricultural are exempt from the height requirements of this chapter.
Sec. 10-41. - Finished fence.
The finished side of a fence shall face to the outside of the property.
