ARTICLE IX. - COMMERCIAL SOLICITING[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
State Law reference— Disabled veteran and blind peddlers exempt from occupation taxes and administrative fees, O.C.G.A. § 43-12-1; persons selling agricultural products exempted form from permit requirements, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-6.

Sec. 12-301. - Permit required.
It shall be unlawful for a peddler, canvasser, solicitor, transient merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor as defined below to engage in such business within the city without first obtaining a permit therefor in compliance with the provisions of this article.
Sec. 12-302. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Canvasser or solicitor means any individual, whether resident of the city or not, traveling either by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck, or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, taking or attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares and merchandise, personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he is collecting advance payments on such sales or not, provided that such definition shall include any person who, for himself, or for another person, firm or corporation, hires, leases, uses, or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, hotel room, lodginghouse, apartment, shop, or any other place within the city for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
Peddler includes any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by foot, wagon, automotive vehicle, or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden truck, farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale, or making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling from place to place, shall sell or offer the same for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle, railroad car, or other vehicle or conveyance, and further provided that one who solicits orders and as a separate transaction makes deliveries to purchasers as a part of a scheme or design to evade the provisions of this article shall be deemed a peddler subject to the provisions of this article. The term "peddler" shall include the terms "hawker" and "huckster."
Transient merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor means any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident of the city or not, who engaged in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise within said city, and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar, or boat, public room in hotels, lodginghouses, apartments, shops, or other place within the city, for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or at public auction provided that such definition shall not be construed to include any person, firm or corporation who, while occupying such temporary location, does not sell from stock, but exhibits samples only for the purpose of securing orders for future delivery only. The person, firm, or corporation so engaged shall not be relieved from complying with the provisions of this article merely by reason of associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer.
Sec. 12-303. - Application.
Applicants for permits under this article must file with the chief of police a sworn application in writing on a form to be furnished by the city, which shall give the following information:
(1)
Name and description of the applicant;
(2)
Address;
(3)
A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be sold;
(4)
If employed, the name and address of the employer;
(5)
The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
(6)
If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same, together with license number or other means of identification;
(7)
If a fixed location is o be used, the address and specific location within such address; and
(8)
A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of any crime, misdemeanor, or violation of any municipal ordinance involving theft, deception or injury to persons, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
Sec. 12-304. - Investigation and issuance.
(a)
Upon receipt of such application, the chief of police shall cause such investigation of the applicant's business and moral character to be made as he deems necessary for the protection of the public good.
(b)
If, as a result of such investigation, the applicant's character or business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the chief of police shall endorse on such application his disapproval and his reasons for the same, and notify the applicant that his application is disapproved and that no permit will be issued. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the chief of police may appeal such decision to the city manager.
(c)
If, as a result of such investigation, the character and business responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the chief of police shall, upon receipt of payment of the prescribed permit fee, deliver to the applicant his permit. The chief shall keep a permanent record of all permits issued.
(d)
Upon proper registration with the city, a written permit shall be issued which will be valid for a period of 14 days from the date of issuance. Additionally, a permit shall not be issued more frequently than every six months.
Sec. 12-305. - Fees; bond; insurance.
(a)
The permit fee which shall be charged by the city for such permit shall be as fixed from time to time by the governing authority, provided that no fee shall be charged to farmers engaged in direct sales of produce or other farm products produced on their own farms.
(b)
All applicants under this article, except those conducting sales of seasonal items and sales at special events, shall, simultaneously with paying the fee called for herein, give proof of a surety bond conditioned that the applicant shall comply fully with all ordinances of the city and laws regulating the licensee's operation, and guaranteeing to any person or entity that all money paid by such person or entity will be accounted for and applied according to the representation of the licensee. Such bond shall issue in an amount of not less than $1,000.00 by a surety company authorized to do business in the state. The bond shall run in favor of the city, but action may be taken on the bond by any person or entity who has suffered any damages as a result of the agent's actions. Any bond required by this section shall continue in force as to the surety so long as the agent holds a valid license under this article and for not less than one year from the date that the agent no longer holds a valid license under this article.
(c)
All applicants under this article, except those conducting sales of seasonal items and sales at special events, shall provide proof of general liability insurance including products liability and property damage in the amount of $500,000.00 combined single limit. A certificate of insurance and a blanket or specific endorsement shall be delivered to the city manager prior to the issuance of a license and shall name as additional insureds the city and its employees regarding any liabilities that may arise in connection with the operations of the applicant.
Sec. 12-306. - Exhibition of permits.
(a)
Itinerant merchants. The permit issued hereunder for itinerant merchants and dealers and transient merchants shall be posted conspicuously in the place of business named therein. In the event that such person or persons applying for said permit shall desire to do business in more than one place within the city, separate permits may be issued for each place of business, and shall be posted conspicuously in each place of business.
(b)
Peddlers. Peddlers, solicitors and canvassers are required to exhibit their permit at the request of any citizen.
Sec. 12-307. - Transfer.
No permit or badge issued under the provisions of this article shall be used or worn at any time by any person other than the one to whom it was issued.
Sec. 12-308. - Use of streets.
It shall be unlawful for any person issued a permit under the provisions of this article to conduct any business transaction in any area that is within 35 feet of any street, alley, road or highway.
Sec. 12-309. - Revocation of permits.
Permits issued under the provisions of this article may be revoked for any of the following causes:
(1)
Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the application for permit;
(2)
Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of carrying on any business contemplated hereunder;
(3)
Any violation of this article;
(4)
Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
(5)
Conducting any business contemplated hereunder, in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
Sec. 12-310. - Regulation of hours.
All activity regulated hereunder shall occur only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time.
Sec. 12-311. - Door-to-door activities.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person holding a valid permit under this article to make a call at any residence where the owner or any person residing therein has posted a sign reading as follows:
NO SOLICITORS
without the express prior permission of the occupant.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person holding a valid permit under this article to fail to immediately leave the premises of any person when requested to do so.
Sec. 12-312. - Penalty.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article, shall, upon conviction thereof be punished as provided in section 1-12.
Secs. 12-313—12-350. - Reserved
