Chapter 32 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Traffic generally, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1 et seq.; powers of local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-370 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 32-1. - Penalty.
Unless stated otherwise, violations of this chapter are punishable as provided in section 1-7.
Sec. 32-2. - State traffic laws adopted.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-372 through 40-6-376, O.C.G.A. title 40, ch. 6 (O.C.G.A. § 40-6-1 et seq.) and the definitions contained in O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1 are hereby adopted as and for the traffic regulations of this the city, with like effect as if recited herein. Violations of this section are an offense.
( Ord. No. 2008-08, §§ 1, 2, 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 32-3. - Motorized carts.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Cart: a motorized cart, electric and/or gasoline. A powered pleasure cart, commonly known as a golf cart. These carts have not less than three wheels.
UTV: A gas or electric vehicle of at least four wheels that is equipped by the manufacturer with a, steering wheel, and seat belts, and pedals for controls. Single passenger vehicles, vehicles with handlebars and/or vehicles with straddled seating are excluded.
(b)
Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to protect, maintain, and enhance health, safety, and general welfare of present and future citizens of the city. It has come to the attention of the mayor and council that the unregulated use of motorized carts on city streets creates a potential traffic hazard for other vehicular traffic as well as a danger to the occupants of motorized carts. Therefore, the intent of this chapter is to regulate the use of motorized carts within the corporate limits of the city as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 40-6-331.
(c)
Operations and limitations.
(1)
Carts and UTVs may be operated within the corporate limits of the city by:
a.
Those persons who have a valid motor vehicle driver's license and operate in conformity with all restrictions of state law.
(2)
All operators of carts or UTVs shall abide by all traffic regulations applicable to vehicular traffic. Carts and UTV may not exceed a speed of 20 mph.
(3)
Carts and UTVs cannot be operated on the sidewalks of Laurel Street. If a cart or UTV is being operated on the sidewalk the cart must give right-of-way to pedestrian traffic, except those adjacent to the owner's property.
(4)
Carts and UTVs will not be permitted in city parks.
(5)
Carts and UTVs shall be operated during only daylight hours. Carts and UTVs that are equipped headlights deemed appropriate by an officer of the Springfield Police Department may be driven on the streets during non-daylight hours.
(6)
Carts may not traverse streets and highways under the jurisdiction of the state department of transportation. Carts and UTVs may cross at the approved crossing only. The state department of transportation approved crossing is located at the intersection of Laurel Street at Second Street.
(7)
Motorized carts commonly known as go-carts or all-terrain vehicles (ATV) may not be legally operated upon city streets.
(8)
The city will issue permits for carts and UTVs in operation on city streets subject to the following requirements:
a.
The owner must supply a valid driver's license for each driver that will be operating the cart or UTV. Each and every driver operating a cart or UTV must be listed on the permit.
b.
The owner of the cart or UTV must provide written acknowledgment that he/she understands this code section and will abide by all rules and regulations set forth herein.
c.
Any person who operates a cart or UTV must be responsible for all liability associated with operation of the cart or UTV and must have provide proof of liability insurance coverage which will cover the use of a golf cart in an amount not less than required by Georgia law for motor vehicles operated on public highways in the State of Georgia. Proof of such insurance shall always be readily available on the cart or UTV.
d.
The permit cost will be listed in the City of Springfield Fee Schedule. Two permit stickers to be affixed on each side of the cart by the police department.
e.
Permits will expire exactly five years from the issue date.
f.
These carts or UTVs will not be allowed on the following city streets:
1.
Laurel Street (except for the crossing at Second (2nd) Street).
2.
GA Hwy 119
3.
GA Hwy 21
g.
The cart must have adequate seating for all passengers; there will be no standing, hanging off of or overloading the capacity of the cart. Seatbelts must always be worn on UTVs while in operation on city streets. If carts are equipped with seatbelts, they must be worn by all passengers while cart is in operation on city streets.
(d)
Exceptions.
(1)
Nothing in this section shall apply to any self-propelled, two-wheeled vehicle.
(2)
Nothing in this section shall apply to any wheeled vehicles operated by the city.
(e)
Enforcement. The city police department shall be charged with enforcement of this section. The department will have the authority to revoke a permit upon knowledge that a cart or UTV has no insurance
(f)
Penalty and suspension. Any person violating any provision of this section shall be punished by a fine for the first offense of not less than $100.00, for the second offense $250.00 and for a third offense $500.00. The permit for the cart or UTV will be suspended upon the third offense within a five-year period.
( Ord. No. 01-03, §§ I—III, V—VII, 6-24-2003 ; Ord. No. 2012-01 , §§ 1—6, 2-14-2012; Ord. No. 2020-13 , § 2(Exh. A), 9-8-2020)
Sec. 32-4. - Skateboards.
(a)
For purpose of this section the term "skateboard or other like instruments" shall be deemed to refer to any nonmotorized instrument used to transport a person by means of wheels or rollers, propelled solely by the force of its rider. The term "skateboard" shall not include bicycles or other geared, nonmotorized transports defined elsewhere in this Code.
(b)
No person shall use, operate or permit the use or operation of any skateboard or other like instrument on Highway 21/Laurel Street or any sidewalk, parking lot or other public place immediately adjacent to Highway 21/Laurel Street. No person shall use, operate or permit the use or operation of any skateboard or other like instrument on any other street, sidewalk, parking lot or other public place within the city limits of the city within 50 feet of any organized public gathering or if such use is likely to produce injury to person or property.
(c)
Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section shall be punished by a fine of not more than $25.00 or by impoundment of the violator's skateboard for a period not to exceed 30 days or by any combination thereof.
( Ord. No. 02-90, §§ 1—3, 7-2-1990 )
Sec. 32-5. - Load limits.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, cause, or permit any vehicle weighing in excess of five tons (10,000 lbs.) to cross, travel on, or be on any of the following streets in said city: All streets in the Cherokee Park subdivision (except border streets and roads, namely McCall Road and that road which crosses its northwest corner, sometimes known as the Old Guyton Road):
(1)
Third (3rd) Street, from Oak Street to Maple Street.
(2)
Maple Street, from Third Street to Fourth Street.
(3)
Fourth (4th) Street, from Oak Street to Ash Street.
(4)
First Street Extension in Southwest Springfield.
(b)
Vehicles of more than 2½-ton load rating shall, when loaded, be presumed to weigh more than five tons.
(c)
Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100.00 and a sentence of ten days in jail, either one or both.
( Ord. No. 01-79, 3-5-1979 )
Secs. 32-6—32-28. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING

Sec. 32-29. - Violations and penalties.
(a)
Any person accused of the violation of this article may settle or compromise the claim against him for such illegal parking by paying to the municipality the sum of $2.00 which may be done within 24 hours of the time such alleged offense was committed. Such payment may be made at the police station, and a receipt shall be issued for all money so received. The money shall be promptly turned over to the city clerk to be credited to the general fund.
(b)
Upon settlement of the charge, if done within the time specified, the members of the police department are hereby authorized to refrain from instituting a prosecution for the alleged offense involved.
(c)
Any car left parked in violation of this article for a period in excess of 24 hours or under such conditions that the police department shall deem a distinct hazard to traffic shall be removed from the street by the chief of police or members of the police department who shall have the authority to have such automobile towed away by a commercial repair or storage garage service to be stored in a safe place until claimed by the owner or operator. The owner or operator of such car upon the payment of the towing charges and the storage charges, shall have the car restored to him.
(d)
Every person failing to compromise or settle the charges for overtime parking by paying the specified fee to the city clerk or any person violating any other section of this article shall be subject to citation by the police department and prosecution for the alleged offense involved. Upon conviction in the police court in the city for such violation, the defendant shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $10.00 or imprisoned for not to more than three days in the jail of the city, either or both at the discretion of said court.
(e)
The chief of police or any other persons authorized by the mayor and council shall cause signs to be posted in all areas where parking is limited indicating such limitations.
( Ord. No. 01-71, §§ VI—VIII, 5-3-1971 )
Sec. 32-30. - Prohibited on specific streets.
It shall be unlawful for any person during the hours of the day from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. to park, leave, keep or to allow to stand or remain standing any motor vehicle or motor-propelled conveyance on Laurel Street or on Jefferson Street in said city for any time in excess of the limit of time at the specified locations set forth in the following sections, to wit:
(1)
At any point on the eastern side of Laurel Street between Rabun Street on the north and Stillwell Road on the south for a period of time in excess of two hours.
(2)
At any point on the western side of Laurel Street between Jackson Street on the North and Jefferson Street on the south and between Crawford Street on the north and Third Street on the south for a period of time in excess of two hours.
(3)
At any point on the western side of Laurel Street between Jefferson Street on the north and Crawford Street on the south for a period of time in excess of one hour.
(4)
At any point on the northern and/or southern side of Jefferson Street between Pine Street on the east and the property of the Savannah and Atlanta Railway on the west for a period of time in excess of three hours.
( Ord. No. 01-71, §§ I—V, 5-3-1971 )
