Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal Home Rule Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; authority to adopt ordinances for regulation of matters for which no provision has been made by general law, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; duty to codify ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Louisville, Georgia," and may be so cited. This Code may also be referred to by the shortened title, "Louisville Code."
(Code 1971, § 1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council:
City. The term "the city" or "this city" means the City of Louisville, Georgia.
City council orcouncil. Whenever the term "city council" or "council" is used, it means the mayor and council, or other duly constituted city council of the city.
Code. The term "this Code" or "Code" means The Code of the City of Louisville, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" means Jefferson County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or an official of the county to do some act or perform some function, it shall be construed to authorize the head of such department or the official to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required function, unless the terms of the provisions designate otherwise.
Ga. Comp. Rules & Regs. The abbreviation "Ga. Comp. Rules & Regs." refers to the official compilation of Georgia administrative regulations.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations, as well as to males.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving that authority to a majority of those persons or officers.
Law. The term "law," when used in any provision of this Code or any ordinance of the city, includes any provision of state and federal constitution, any federal or state statute, and any ordinance, resolution or order of the board of aldermen.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and any others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to that meaning.
Number. Words used in the singular number only, either as descriptive of persons or things, shall extend to and embrace the plural number; and words used in the plural number shall extend to and embrace the singular number, except where a contrary intention is manifest.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended from time to time.
Or; and. "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Ordinance. The term "ordinance" means a legislative act of the city council of a general and permanent nature.
Other officials or officers, city departments, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, i.e., "city manager," "city clerk," "chief of police," etc., they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions and departments of the city and shall include the duly authorized deputies and assistants of such officials.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations and bodies politic and corporate, or any combination thereof, as well as to individuals.
Preceding; following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean "next before" and "next after," respectively.
Public place. The term "public place" means any place including, but not limited to, buildings or conveyances to which the public has, or is permitted to have access, including restaurants, soda fountains, hotel dining rooms, lobbies and corridors of hotels, and any highway, street, lane, park or place of public resort or amusement.
Resolution. The term "resolution" shall mean a legislative act of the city governing authority of a special or temporary character.
Shall; may. The term "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory; the term "may" is permissive.
Signature orsubscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" means and includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public streets and ways in the city and shall embrace all parts thereof constituting the designated right-of-way, unless otherwise stated.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1971, § 1-2)
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections, history notes and references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of the section nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are intended merely to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Editor's notes, charter references and state law references that appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of the Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions, or sections are to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions, or sections of this Code, unless otherwise specified.
(Code 1971, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Form of Code; repository; maintenance.
A copy of this Code shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk, preserved in loose-leaf form, or in such other form as the clerk may consider most expedient. It shall be the express duty of the clerk or his designee to insert in their designated places all resolutions, general resolutions and ordinances that indicate the intention of the city council to make the same a part of this Code, when the same have been printed or reprinted in page form, and to extract from this Code all provisions that may be from time to time repealed by the city council. A copy of this Code shall be available in the office of the city clerk for examination by all persons.
Sec. 1-5. - Responsibility of city personnel with respect to assigned copies of Code.
Each city official or employee assigned a copy of this Code shall be responsible for maintaining the same and for the proper insertion of amendatory pages as received. Each such copy shall remain the property of the city and shall be turned over by the official or employee having custody thereof, upon expiration of his term of office or employment, to his successor or to the city clerk, in case he shall have no successor.
Sec. 1-6. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect. The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinances repealed.
(Code 1971, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-7. - Effect of Code on existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as those ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-8. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the city.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat.
(11)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the city.
(12)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(13)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes or granting special tax exemptions not included herein.
(14)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the city.
(b)
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter; and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Sec. 1-9. - Conflicting regulations.
(a)
If the provisions of different chapters conflict with each other, the provisions of each individual chapter shall control all issues arising out of the events and persons intended to be governed by that chapter.
(b)
If the provisions of different sections of the same chapter conflict with each other, the provision which is more specific in its application to the events or persons raising the conflict shall control over the more general provision.
(c)
If any of the provisions hereof conflict, and the conflict cannot be resolved by application of subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the more stringent regulation shall apply and the specific provision shall prevail over the general.
Sec. 1-10. - Severability of parts of Code.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Code 1971, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-11. - Amendment to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code of Ordinances which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code of Ordinances, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code should be made by amending such provision by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, city is hereby amended to read as follows:_____ (Set out new provisions in full)_____."
(c)
When the city council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the Code, which the city council desires to incorporate into the Code, a section in substantially the following language shall be made a part of the ordinance: "Section _____. It is the intention of the city council, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of Ordinances, city and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1971, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-12. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the mayor and council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-13. - Altering code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-14.
(Code 1971, § 1-7)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying, or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-14. - General penalty; prescribed; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section, the phrase "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared to be an unlawful act, an offense, or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance, rule, or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor, an offense, or an unlawful omission by ordinance, rule, or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
The phrase "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context of this Code that it is the intent of the city to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon the city officer or employee.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided in this Code or by general law, a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or both.
(d)
All sentences must be in the alternative, and fines may be imposed with the alternative of the other punishment in the event the fines are not paid. Each day any violation of any provision of this Code or any such ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or order shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(e)
Except as otherwise provided in this Code, each day that a violation of this Code continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(f)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief and by such other means as are provided by law. Further, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any such ordinance, resolution, rules, regulation or order shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated by the city as provided by law.
(g)
The imposition of a penalty does not prohibit equitable relief.
(h)
The imposition of a penalty does not prohibit revocation or suspension of a license, permit, or franchise or the imposition of other administrative sanctions.
(i)
All fines shall be paid into the city treasury.
(j)
In the event community service is substituted for a fine, the monetary rate for hourly work shall be the federal minimum hourly wage.
(k)
If it is deemed by a court of competent jurisdiction that a punishment imposed under this Code conflicts with the laws of Georgia, the punishment shall be the maximum permitted by law.
(Code 1971, §§ 1-8, 1-9)
Sec. 1-15. - Enforcement against corporations.
(a)
Any violation of this Code by any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization, while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall in every case also be deemed to be a violation by such corporation, association or organization.
(b)
Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and liable to punishment as well as the corporation or unincorporated association or organization for the violation by it of any provisions of this Code, where such violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order, of any such person.
(Code 1906, § 158; Code 1971, § 1-10)
