ARTICLE V. - COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES

Sec. 18-201. - Gambling devices prohibited.
Gambling devices, as that term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-20(2) are prohibited in the county, and the ownership, use, or transport thereof shall be a misdemeanor pursuant to state law, except as exempted pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(a) through (j).
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 5(18-501) )
Sec. 18-202. - Gambling places prohibited.
Gambling places, as that term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-20(3) are prohibited in the county, and the operation thereof shall be a misdemeanor pursuant to state law.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 5(18-502) )
Sec. 18-203. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, or phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Amusement game room means any location as provided in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(b), (c) or (d) where one or more bona fide coin-operated amusement machines are operated that permit non-cash redemption as provided in O.C.G.A, § 16-25-35(d)(1)(B), (C), or a combination thereof.
Bona fide coin-operated amusement machine means the same as this term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-17-1(2)(A) and (B) and any applicable regulations of the State of Georgia. Examples of bona fide coin-operated amusement machines include, but are expressly not limited to, the following:
• Pinball machines;
• Console machines;
• Video games;
• Crane machines;
• Claw machines;
• Pusher machines;
• Bowling machines;
• Novelty arcade games;
• Football or table soccer machines;
• Miniature racetrack, football or golf machines;
• Target or shooting gallery machines;
• Basketball machines;
• Shuffleboard machines;
• Kiddie ride games;
• Skeeball machines;
• Air hockey machines;
• Roll down machines;
• Coin-operated pool table or coin-operated billiard table as defined in paragraph (3) of O.C.G.A. § 43-8-1; and
• Any other similar amusement machine which can be legally operated in Georgia.
The term "coin-operated amusement machine" does not include the following:
• Coin-operated washing machines or dryers;
• Vending machines which for payment of money dispense products or services;
• Gas and electric meters;
• Pay telephones;
• Pay toilets;
• Cigarette vending machines;
• Coin-operated vending machines;
• Coin-operated scales;
• Coin-operated gumball machines;
• Coin-operated television sets which provide cable or network programming;
• Coin-operated massage beds; and
• Machines which are not legally permitted to be operated in Georgia.
Location means a business within the county that has complied with the provisions of the ordinances of the county relating to occupation taxes and business licenses.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 5(18-503) )
Sec. 18-204. - License required.
No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of an owner or proprietor of an amusement game room, as the term is herein defined, without first having obtained a license and without first having paid the applicable occupation tax required under this article.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 5(18-504) )
Sec. 18-205. - Issuance of license.
Application for a license for operating an amusement game room within the corporate limits of the county shall be made to the county clerk upon a form to be supplied by the county clerk for this purpose. The license application shall include the following information:
(1)
Name, address, and age of the applicant and the date of the application;
(2)
Address or place where the bona fide coin-operated amusement machine or machines are to be offered to the public for play and the other business or businesses operated at that place or places;
(3)
Name and address of the owner of the machine or machines and a copy of the owner's master license;
(4)
Name and address of any other business owned or operated by applicant within the corporate limits of the county;
(5)
List of any other licenses or permits from the county held by the applicant.
Upon issuing a license for an amusement game room, the county official or employee shall provide the license with a copy of the ordinance from which this article derives. The county shall not require a fee for licensure or registration of an amusement game room. A license issued in accordance with this article shall be valid until December 31st of the year in which the license was issued. The owner or operator of an amusement game room shall be required to pay occupation taxes in accordance with article I of this chapter of the Code of Ordinances of the county.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 5(18-505) )
Sec. 18-206. - Occupation tax required.
No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of an owner or proprietor of amusement game room, as the term is herein defined, without first having completed the occupation tax certificate form paid the required occupational tax and without first having obtained the license required under this article.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 5(18-506) )
Sec. 18-207. - Distance.
Every amusement game room in the county shall comply with the proximity provision for business licensed to sell alcohol set out in O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21. After a hearing, the board of commissioners may waive the application of this provision to an individual location if no alcohol is served or sold at such location.
Every amusement game room in the county shall comply with the proximity provision for businesses licensed to sell alcohol as set out in section 3-34 of the Code of Ordinances of the county. After a hearing, the board of commissioners may waive the applicability of this provision to an individual location if no alcohol is served at such location.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 5(18-507) )
Sec. 18-208. - Number of bona fide coin-operated amusement machines at a location.
No amusement game room in the county shall offer to the public more than nine bona fide coin-operated amusement machines offering non-cash redemption in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(c) and (d)(1)(2), or both at the same location. After a hearing, the board of commissioners may, after consideration of the nature and character of the business, waive the applicability of this provision to an individual location.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 5(18-508) )
Sec. 18-209. - Gross receipts from bona fide coin-operated amusement machines and from business.
Every amusement game room shall keep records available for inspection by county officials that set out separately annual gross receipts for the amusement games and the other products and services sold at the location. Income from the amusement game or games shall not constitute more than 50 percent of the income from the location. Compliance with this section requires both the availability of records for inspection and compliance with the 50 percent of income requirement.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 5(18-509) )
Sec. 18-210. - Notice requirements.
Every amusement game room shall post a conspicuous sign with the following or similar words:
"GEORGIA LAW PROHIBITS GIVING OR RECEIPT OF ANY MONEY FOR WINNING A GAME OR GAMES ON AN AMUSEMENT MACHINE; GIVING OR RECEIPT OF MONEY FOR FREE REPLAYS WON ON AN AMUSEMENT MACHINE; GIVING OR RECEIPT OF MONEY FOR ANY MERCHANDISE, PRIZE, TOY, GIFT CERTIFICATE, OR NOVELTY WON ON ANY AMUSEMENT MACHINE; OR AWARDING ANY MERCHANDISE, PRIZE, TOY, GIFT CERTIFICATE, OR NOVELTY OF A VALUE EXCEEDING $5.00 FOR A SINGLE PLAY OF AN AMUSEMENT MACHINE."
Every amusement game room shall post the license issued by the county conspicuously and permanently. The owner or proprietor of each amusement game room shall inform every employee of the acts and omissions prohibited by O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35 and by this article, and of the penalties for violation of O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35 and this article.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 5(18-510) )
Sec. 18-211. - Compliance with O.C.G.A. provisions relating to master licenses, location licenses, and stickers for individual machines.
Bona fide coin-operated amusement machines may be used in an amusement game room within the county only if the machines are owned by a person who holds a valid master license in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-17-2, and each machine offered to the public for play has a valid permit sticker in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-17-9. In addition, the business owner where the machines are available for play by the public must pay a location license fee in order to obtain a valid location license in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-17-2(a.1) and (b). The county official in charge of issuing business licenses shall notify the state commissioner of revenue of any observed violation of O.C.G.A. § 48-17-2 or § 48-17-9.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 5(18-511) )
Sec. 18-212. - Penalties for violations by owners or operators of amusement game rooms.
In addition to penalties set out in the O.C.G.A. provisions for failure to comply with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(a) through (i), the owner or operator of an amusement game room, after conviction in a court of competent jurisdiction, and a hearing before the board of commissioners, may be subject to the following penalties:
(1)
First offense: Suspension for not more than six months of the owner or proprietor's license for offering any amusement game at the location where the violation occurred.
(2)
Second offense: Suspension for not more than 12 months of the owner or proprietor's license for offering any amusement game at the location where the violation occurred.
(3)
Third offense: Suspension or permanent revocation of the owner or proprietor/operator's license for offering any amusement game at the location where the violation occurred, and suspension of other permits and licenses granted by the county for not more than six months.
Penalties for violation of the provisions of any sections of this article by the owner or operator of an amusement game room, after conviction in the magistrate court of the county are as follows:
(1)
First offense: Fine not to exceed $500.00 for each violation.
(2)
Second offense: Fine not to exceed $750.00 for each violation, suspension of the owner or operator's license for offering any amusement game at the location for not more than three months, or both.
(3)
Third offense: Fine not to exceed $1,000.00 for each violation, suspension or permanent revocation of the owner or operator's license for offering any amusement game at the location, or suspension of other permits and licenses granted by the county for not more than six months, or any combination of these penalties.
The fines listed in the penalties for violation of this article may be imposed by the judge of the magistrate court of the county. Suspension or revocation of the owner or operator's license for offering any amusement game at the location where the violation occurred, and suspension of other permits and licenses granted by the county may be imposed by the board of commissioners after a hearing.
Offering one or more bona fide coin-operated amusement machine games in violation of an order suspending or revoking the license for the offering of any amusement game at the location is punishable, after conviction in the magistrate court of the county, by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 5(18-512) )
Sec. 18-213. - Penalties for violations by those who play bona fide coin-operated machines in violation of law or ordinances.
The magistrate court of the county is authorized to impose the following penalties on any person convicted of receiving money as a reward for the successful play or winning of any bona fide coin-operated amusement machine from any person owning, possessing, controlling or overseeing such bona fide coin-operated amusement machine or any person employed by or acting on behalf of a person owning, possessing, controlling or overseeing a bona fide coin-operated amusement machine.
(1)
First offense: Fine not to exceed $250.00 for each violation.
(2)
Second and subsequent offense: Fine not to exceed $500.00 for each violation.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 5(18-513) )
Sec. 18-214. - Operating regulations.
All businesses operating as an amusement center hereunder shall be subject to the following regulations:
(1)
Devices to be in plain view; gambling devices prohibited. All machines shall at all times be kept and placed in plain view of and open and accessible to any person(s) who may frequent or be in any place of business where such machines are kept or used. Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize, permit or license any gambling device of any nature whatsoever.
(2)
Inspection. The sheriff shall inspect or cause the inspection of any place or building in which any such machine(s) are operated or set up for operating, and shall inspect, investigate and test such machines as needed.
(3)
Attendant required. It shall be unlawful for any proprietor to open his business to the public unless an attendant is present. Said attendant shall be of sufficient mental and physical capacity so as to be able to provide aid to patrons if needed or desired. Said attendant shall not be less than 18 years of age.
(4)
Loitering. As used in this section, "loitering" shall mean remaining idle in essentially one location and shall include the concepts of spending time idly, loafing or walking about aimlessly, and shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation licenses to operate an amusement center to permit loitering on or in the immediate vicinity of any machine or business premises regulated hereunder in such a manner as to:
a.
Create or cause to be created a danger of a breach of the peace;
b.
Create or cause to be created any disturbance or annoyance to the comfort and repose of any person;
c.
Obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles;
d.
Obstruct, molest or interfere with any person lawfully in a public place;
e.
Shirt and shoes required. All proprietors shall require shirts and shoes to be worn at all times by any person frequenting their premises.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 5(18-514) )
Sec. 18-215. - Revocation of license.
In the event that it comes to the attention of the board of commissioners that an amusement center has created a nuisance to the surrounding community or the operator or proprietor has violated any provision of this section, the following procedure will be followed:
(1)
The county clerk shall issue a notice of objection which shall include the address of the location and the specific reasons why the amusement center in question is alleged to be a nuisance or alleged to be in violation of any provision of this section. The county clerk will then notify the proprietor that a notice of objection has been filed and will set a date for a hearing before the board of commissioners. Extensions and necessary investigations will be granted and conducted at the discretion of the county clerk.
(2)
At the time of the hearing, any resident, the operator, the proprietor and the county clerk or other witnesses may be heard. Thereafter, the board of commissioners shall issue a notice of decision which will call for the dismissal of the objection, removal of the machines or such other remedy as they deem appropriate under the circumstances that are consistent with the purpose of this section.
(3)
The decision of the board of commissioners shall be in writing and shall state the reasons for their decision and shall be based upon the merits of the case.
(4)
The decision of the mayor and council shall be binding upon the proprietor and operator of the amusement center under consideration, subject to appeal to the proper court.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 5(18-515) )
Sec. 18-216. - Licenses and permits nontransferable.
(a)
Licenses required in this article are nontransferable. All businesses that have bona fide coin-operated amusement machines on the premises shall display, in plain view, the current license issued by the county.
(b)
The issued license shall not be transferred to another owner at the same site within the county. A new owner or proprietor must first obtain a new license if they are going to operate in the same or different location in the county.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 5(18-516) )
Sec. 18-217. - Enforcing officer.
The sheriff or his designee is hereby designated as the enforcement officer and shall execute all requirements of this article.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 5(18-517) )
Secs. 18-218—18-250. - Reserved.
