ARTICLE XI. - PLANNING COMMISSION

Sec. 68-1101. - Existence continued.
The planning commission for Habersham County as it exists on the effective date of this chapter shall continue.
( Ord. of 12-21-2020 )
Sec. 68-1102. - Meetings and records.
The planning commission shall meet one time each month and determine its time of meeting; provided, however, that this provision shall not be construed as requiring the planning commission to meet when it has no regular business to transact. All such meetings shall be open to the public. The planning commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of business or, in lieu of such rules, the commission shall follow "Robert's Rules of Order," latest edition. The planning commission shall keep record of its resolutions, recommendations, transactions, findings, and determinations and all such records shall be public record and available for purchase by interested parties at a reasonable cost.
( Ord. of 12-21-2020 )
Sec. 68-1103. - Powers and duties.
In addition to any other powers enumerated in this chapter and any other resolution approved by the Habersham County Commission, the planning commission shall have the following functions, powers and duties:
(a)
Prepare and recommend for adoption by the governing body land development regulations and official land use district map, subdivision regulations, and other such land use regulations; prepare and recommend for adoption by the governing body amendments to any of the land use regulations; and to review and make recommendations concerning applications for land use district map amendment and conditional use permits.
(b)
Review, approve and/or deny applications for preliminary plats, final plats and variances to the regulations of this chapter.
(c)
To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the administrative officer, or other administrative officer, in the enforcement of this chapter. An appeal of an administrative decision stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the administrative officer or other administrative officer from whom the appeal is made certifies to the planning commission, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which must be granted by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(d)
Perform other planning functions and duties as may be required by the governing body.
( Ord. of 12-21-2020 )
Secs. 68-1104—68-1200. - Reserved.
