ARTICLE V. - JUDICIAL BRANCH

Sec. 5.10. - Municipal court.
There shall be a court to be known as the Municipal Court of the City of South Fulton.
Sec. 5.11. - Judges.
(a)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge and such part-time, full-time, or stand-by judges as shall be provided by ordinance. The chief judge shall be nominated by the mayor and shall be confirmed by resolution of the city council, and the method of selection and terms of any other judges shall be provided by ordinance.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the municipal court unless that person shall have attained the age of 21 years and shall have been a member of the State Bar of Georgia for a minimum of three years.
(c)
Compensation of the chief judge and other judges shall be fixed by the city council. The position of chief judge shall not be a full-time position, and the person serving as chief judge may engage in the private practice of law.
(d)
The chief judge shall serve a term of four years, coincident with the term of the mayor, but may be removed upon action taken by the Judicial Qualification Commission or as provided by O.C.G.A. ยง 36-32-2.1.
(e)
Before assuming office, each judge shall take an oath, given by the mayor, that the judge will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of the office to the best of his or her ability and without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the city council journal required in Section 3.14 of this Charter.
(H.B. 1019(Act 414), p.____)
Sec. 5.12. - Convening of court.
The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals as provided by ordinance.
Sec. 5.13. - Powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violations of this Charter, all city ordinances, and such other violations as provided by law.
(b)
The municipal court shall have the authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed the statutory limits for fines and imprisonment for such municipal court.
(c)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction, including both fines and imprisonment or alternative sentencing, provided that such fines or imprisonment does not exceed the statutory limits as [they] now exist or hereafter [as] provided by law.
(d)
The municipal court shall have the authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the actual cost of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violation of state law.
(e)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety bond for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, the bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time and an execution shall be issued thereon by serving the defendant and his or her sureties with a rule nisi at least two days before a hearing on the rule nisi.
(f)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments, and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(g)
The municipal court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that state law has been violated.
(h)
Each judge of the municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summonses, subpoenas, and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this Charter or by law.
(i)
Each judge of the municipal court shall be authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged with offenses against any ordinance of the city, and each judge of the municipal court shall have the same authority as a magistrate of the state to issue warrants for offenses against state laws committed within the city.
(j)
The municipal court is specifically vested with all the jurisdiction and powers throughout the geographic area of this city granted by law to municipal courts and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances and prosecution of traffic violations.
Sec. 5.14. - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases and ordinance violation cases, and such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of a judge of the Superior Court of Fulton County, under the laws of the State of Georgia regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
Sec. 5.15. - Rules.
With the approval of the city council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the city council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations applicable to superior courts. The rules and regulations made or adopted shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection, and, upon request, shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings at least 48 hours prior to said proceedings.
