CHAPTER 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1001. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following parts, chapters, articles and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Ordinances, City of South Fulton, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Ord. No. 2017-003, § 1(1-1001), 4-29-2017)
Sec. 1-1002. - Authority and purpose.
Pursuant to authority granted by statute, this chapter of the City Code is enacted so as to set down for enforcement the government and good order of the city by and through the council.
(Ord. No. 2020-006, § 1, 3-17-2020)
Sec. 1-1002(a). - Welcome to the City of South Fulton.
The City of South Fulton hereby welcomes all races, cultures, religions, ages, sexual orientations, gender expressions, and persons of all mental and physical abilities, to participate and play a key role in the city's health, development, prosperity and economic growth. The city encourages all residents, businesses, employees, and employers to value the difference in people and recognize that people with different backgrounds, skills and experiences bring fresh ideas and perceptions.
(Ord. No. 2020-012, § 1, 5-26-2020)
Sec. 1-1003. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council:
Charter. The word "Charter" shall mean the Charter of the city, as it now exists or as it may be amended in the future.
City. The words "city," "the city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the words "of South Fulton, Georgia" followed them.
Code. Whenever the term "Code" or "this Code" is referred to without further qualification, it shall mean The Code of Ordinances, City of South Fulton, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1001.
Computation of time. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day or the last; except that if the last day shall fall on Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, another day shall be added in the computation.
Council. The words "council" or "city council" shall be construed as if the words "of South Fulton, Georgia" followed them.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean Fulton County, Georgia.
Court. The word "court" shall mean the recorder's court of the city.
Gender. The masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers, or to a quorum.
Judge. The word "judge" shall mean the judge of the city court.
Keeper and proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and co-partnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
Land. The words "land" and "real estate" includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Number. The singular or plural shall each include the other, unless expressly excluded.
Oath. The word "oath" includes affirmation. When an oath is required or authorized by law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken by a person having conscientious scruples against taking an oath. An affirmation has the same force and effect as an oath.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." shall mean the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Officers, departments, boards, commissions. Any reference to the title of an officer, department, board or commission shall be construed as if the words "of South Fulton, Georgia" followed them.
Or, and. The word "or" may be read "and," and the word "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, and joint tenant or person in possession under a bond for title.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" means all tangible personal property and all intangible personal property as the terms are defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-1-2(19).
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any place where the conduct involved may reasonably be expected to be viewed by people other than members of the actor's family or household.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include all lands, including improvements and fixtures thereon and property of any nature appurtenant thereto or used in connection therewith, and every estate, interest, right, and use, legal or equitable, therein, including terms for years and liens by way of judgment, mortgage, or otherwise.
Shall, may. The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean that portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral lines of a railway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for by use pedestrians.
Signature or subscription. The word "signature" or "subscription" includes the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall mean the entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
Tenant or occupant. The words "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies, the whole or a part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense shall include the future as well as the past and present.
Written, in writing. The word "written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Ord. No. 2017-003, § 1(1-1003), 4-29-2017)
Sec. 1-1004. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code, or its application to any persons or circumstances, shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or other invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code or their application, since the same would have been enacted by the city council without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional or otherwise invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Ord. No. 2017-003, § 1(1-1004), 4-29-2017)
Sec. 1-1005. - Catchlines of sections, etc.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of the sections nor as any part of the section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted. No provision of this Code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any catchline or any heading or title to any part, chapter or article.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parenthesis after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the sections.
(c)
The editor's notes, Charter references, cross references and state law references in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to assist the user of this Code.
(Ord. No. 2017-003, § 1(1-1005), 4-29-2017)
Sec. 1-1006. - General penalty; continuing violations.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision of this Code any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment in the city jail for not more than 90 days, or labor on the public works or streets in the city for not more than 90 days, or community service work for not more than 90 days, subject to all limitation contained in the charter of the city. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 2017-003, § 1(1-1006), 4-29-2017)
Sec. 1-1007. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
(Ord. No. 2017-003, § 1(1-1011), 4-29-2017; Ord. No. 2020-006, § 2, 3-17-2020)
Editor's note— Formerly § 1-1011.
Sec. 1-1008. - Official city time.
(a)
Time referred to in ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the city shall mean Eastern Standard Time, and acts and deeds of commission prohibited after a named hour or before a named hour shall be held and understood to mean such hour by Eastern Standard Time, and wherever any reference to time is made in any of the ordinances and regulations of the city, the rules, ordinances and regulations are hereby amended to provide that the time provided therein shall be and is hereby made Eastern Standard Time in accordance with the laws of this state.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, Eastern Daylight Savings Time shall apply when such time is in effect in this state.
(Ord. No. 2017-003, § 1(1-1012), 4-29-2017; Ord. No. 2020-006, § 2, 3-17-2020)
Editor's note— Formerly § 1-1012.
Sec. 1-1009. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the mayor and council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive parts of permanent and general ordinances passed by the mayor and council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be prepared so that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing final documents for the Code, the codifier (meaning the person or entity authorized to prepare a supplement to the Code and/or the city clerk or city attorney in their preparation of final legislation and related documents) may make formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated in the Code); and
(5)
Make other non-substantive changes, such as formatting and proofing, necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinance sections inserted in the Code; but in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement of already embodied in the Code.
(Ord. No. 2017-003, § 1(1-1014), 4-29-2017; Ord. No. 2020-006, § 2, 3-17-2020)
Editor's note— Formerly § 1-1014.
Sec. 1-1010. - Electronic signatures.
The city manager and city treasurer are hereby authorized to request a depository of city funds to honor an order for payment when such instrument bears an e-signature or facsimile of their signatures and to charge the same to the account designated thereon or upon which it is drawn as effectively as though it were their manually written signatures. Such authority is granted only for the purpose of permitting such officers an economy of time and effort.
(Ord. No. 2020-006, § 2, 3-17-2020)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2020-006, § 2, adopted March 17, 2020, repealed the former § 1-1010, and enacted a new § 1-1010 as set out herein. The former § 1-1010 pertained to formal motion, resolution or recommendation required for passage of new ordinance and derived from Ord. No. 2017-003, § 1(1-1010), 4-29-2017.
