ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Licenses for closed, new and conveyed outlets.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Monthly means on the basis of whole months.
(b)
Licenses provided for in this chapter shall be issued as follows:
(1)
There shall be no refund of license fees for licensed outlets which close during a calendar year.
(2)
The license fee for new outlets beginning after January 1 shall be determined according to a monthly proration of the regular annual license fee.
(3)
Where established outlets, operating under an annual license, are sold or otherwise conveyed (thus requiring a new license), the new license fee shall be determined according to a monthly proration.
(Ord. of 6-25-2019, § 1(4-1))
Sec. 4-2. - Drinking of alcoholic beverages by licensees and employees while on duty at outlets.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for the licensee or any employee of a malt beverage, liquor, or pouring outlet to consume any intoxicating beverage while on duty at the outlet, or to be on duty at the outlet in an intoxicated condition.
(b)
For purposes of this section, any licensee or employee of an outlet who is on the outlet's premises shall be presumed to be on duty if he is:
(1)
Being paid any salary, wage or remuneration of any kind for his services rendered during the time he is on the premises;
(2)
On the outlet's premises for the benefit of or at the direction of the outlet or its management (other than as a customer, patron or guest);
(3)
Engaging in the sale, directly or indirectly, of any food or beverage; or
(4)
Taking a break during periods of on-duty employment.
(c)
A violation of this section shall be punished in accordance with section 6.20 of the city Charter and other applicable provisions. A violation of this section shall also constitute grounds for the suspension, revocation, and/or refusal to renew the outlet's license.
(Ord. of 6-25-2019, § 1(4-2))
Sec. 4-3. - Furnishing alcoholic beverages to and purchase and possession of alcoholic beverages by persons under 21 years of age; jurisdiction.
The municipal court, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-32-10, is granted jurisdiction to try and dispose of a first offense violation of O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23, pertaining to furnishing alcoholic beverages to, and purchase and possession of alcoholic beverages by, a person under 21 years of age, if the offense occurs within the corporate limits of the city. O.C.G.A. § 36-32-10 is incorporated in this section by reference.
(Ord. of 6-25-2019, § 1(4-3))
Sec. 4-4. - Sale of intoxicating beverages where firearms or weapons are sold.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, or offer for sale, firearms, knives or other weapons and intoxicating beverages at the same business establishment.
(Ord. of 6-25-2019, § 1(4-4))
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21.
Sec. 4-5. - Violations; punishment.
Any violation of this chapter shall be punished as provided in section 6.20 of the city Charter.
(Ord. of 6-25-2019, § 1(4-6))
Secs. 4-6—4-30. - Reserved.
