ARTICLE VIII. - EXCISE TAXES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 4-387—4-415. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MALT BEVERAGES AND WINE

Sec. 4-416. - Levied.
There is hereby imposed on malt beverages and wine an excise tax in the maximum amount allowed by law, as now exists or as hereafter amended.
(Comp. 1976, § 4-118-B; Code 1989, § 3-21; Ord. of 8-4-1986, § 11; Ord. of 2-6-1989)
State Law reference— Municipal excise tax on malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80; municipal excise tax on wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-60.
Sec. 4-417. - Due date; payment.
The tax shall be paid to the city by each wholesale dealer on all malt beverages and wine sold within the city not later than the tenth day of each month, based upon the units of malt beverage and wine sold during the previous calendar month by the wholesalers to retailers in the city.
(Comp. 1976, § 4-118-B; Code 1989, § 3-21(1); Ord. of 8-4-1986, § 11; Ord. of 2-6-1989)
Sec. 4-418. - Recordkeeping.
The wholesale dealer shall keep true and correct records of all sales and shipments and shall render a sworn statement of the same accompanying the monthly report to the city and the report shall show the exact quantities of malt beverages or wine, by size and type of container, and the amount of excise tax collected.
(Comp. 1976, § 4-118-B; Code 1989, § 3-21(2); Ord. of 8-4-1986, § 11; Ord. of 2-6-1989)
Sec. 4-419. - Audits.
The city council shall have the right to audit, and to require production of records from each wholesaler supplying retailers in the city, and also from each retailer so supplied.
(Comp. 1976, § 4-118-B; Code 1989, § 3-21(3); Ord. of 8-4-1986, § 11; Ord. of 2-6-1989)
Sec. 4-420. - Failure to file; delinquent payment.
Failure to make a timely report and remittance of the taxes shall render a wholesale dealer liable for a penalty equal to ten percent of the total amount due, in addition to the amount due; and additionally, if the report is not filed or if the taxes are not remitted and paid within 30 days from the date that the same are due, the city council shall have the right to suspend or revoke any wholesale license, and further to prohibit the wholesaler from making any deliveries of any type whatsoever within the city.
(Comp. 1976, § 4-118-B; Code 1989, § 3-21(4); Ord. of 8-4-1986, § 11; Ord. of 2-6-1989)
Sec. 4-421. - Sale without tax payment prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at retail or otherwise within the city any malt beverage or wine on which the tax required in this section has not been paid to the wholesaler, distributor or to the city.
(Comp. 1976, § 4-118-B; Code 1989, § 3-21(5); Ord. of 8-4-1986, § 11; Ord. of 2-6-1989)
Secs. 4-422—4-468. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - DISTILLED SPIRITS BY THE DRINK
Subdivision I. - In General

Secs. 4-469—4-515. - Reserved.
Subdivision II. - Excise Tax

Sec. 4-516. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Agent means that person designated by a licensee in the licensee's application for a permit to sell distilled spirits by the drink in the city.
Drink means any distilled spirits not in its original package for consumption on the premises that may or may not be diluted by any other liquid.
Licensee means any person who holds a license from the city to sell distilled spirits by the drink for consumption on the premises.
Monthly period means the calendar month of the year.
Purchase price means the consideration received for the sale of distilled spirits by the drink valued in money, whether received in cash or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the licensee to the purchaser, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Purchaser means any person who orders and gives present or future consideration for any distilled spirits by the drink from a licensee.
Tax means the tax imposed by this division.
(Ord. No. 2007-05, § 3-300, 1-7-2008)
Sec. 4-517. - Penalty.
Any person violating this subdivision shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in general penalty section 1-9. Each such person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which any violation of this subdivision is committed, continued or permitted by such person and shall be punished accordingly.
(Ord. No. 2007-05, § 3-302, 1-7-2008)
Sec. 4-518. - Administration.
(a)
Authority. The city manager or his designee shall administer and enforce this division.
(b)
Rules and regulations. The city manager or his designee shall have the power and authority to make and publish reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with this subdivision or other laws of the city, state or the constitution of this state or the United States for the administration and enforcement of this subdivision and the collection of the taxes under this subdivision.
(c)
Recordkeeping. Every licensee for the sale of distilled spirits by the drink to any person shall keep such records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent papers in such form as the city manager or his designee may require.
(d)
Examination of records; audits. The city manager or his designee may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any licensee liable for the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the licensee to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(e)
Authority to require reports; contents. In the administration of this subdivision, the city manager or his designee may require the filing of reports by any person having in such person's possession or custody information relating to sales of beverages that are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the license division, department of finance, when required and shall set forth the price charged for each sale, the dates of sales and such other information as may be required.
(f)
Confidentiality. The city manager or his designee or any person having an administrative duty under this subdivision shall not make known in any manner the business affairs, operations or information obtained by an audit of books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any licensee or any other person visited or examined in the discharge of official duty or the amount of source of income, profits, losses, expenditures or any particular thereof set forth or disclosed in any return or permit any return or copy thereof or any book containing any abstract or particulars thereof to be seen or examined by any person not having such administrative duty under this subdivision, except for judicial proceedings or other proceedings necessary to collect the tax levied and assessed. Successors, receivers, trustees, executors, administrators, assignees and guarantors, if directly interested, may be given information as to the items included in the measure and amount of unpaid tax or amounts of tax required to be collected, interest and penalties.
(Ord. No. 2007-05, § 3-301, 1-7-2008)
Sec. 4-519. - Levied.
There is imposed and levied in addition to all other taxes imposed by law upon every purchase of distilled spirits by the drink in the city a tax in the amount of three percent of the purchase price.
(Ord. No. 2007-05, § 3-303, 1-7-2008)
Sec. 4-520. - Added to sales price.
Licensees shall, as far as practicable, add the amount of the tax imposed under this subdivision to the sales price or charge, which shall be a debt from the purchaser to the licensee until paid and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as other debts. If any licensee shall neglect, fail or refuse to collect such tax upon any, every and all retail sales made by the licensee or the licensee's agents or employees of alcoholic beverages that are subject to the tax imposed under this subdivision, the licensee shall be liable for and shall pay the tax.
(Ord. No. 2007-05, § 3-304, 1-7-2008)
Sec. 4-521. - Sales of distilled spirits itemized separately.
Every licensee for the sale of distilled spirits by the drink operating a place of business in the city shall, at the time of collecting for food and drinks served, itemize separately the price of distilled spirits served. If the charges for food and drink are satisfied by credit or deferred payment, the payment of the tax to the licensee may be deferred in a like manner; however, the licensee shall be liable therefor at the time and to the extent that such credits are incurred.
(Ord. No. 2007-05, § 3-305, 1-7-2008)
Sec. 4-522. - Due date.
All taxes collected by any licensee or agent under this subdivision shall be due and payable to the mayor or his designee monthly on or before the 20th day of every month next succeeding each respective monthly period, as defined in section 4-516.
(Ord. No. 2007-05, § 3-306, 1-7-2008)
Sec. 4-523. - Monthly return.
(a)
Required. On or before the 20th day of the month following each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period shall be filed with the licensing division of the department of finance in such form as the city manager or his designee may prescribe by every licensee or agent liable for the payment of tax under this subdivision.
(b)
Contents. All returns shall show:
(1)
The gross receipts from the sale of distilled spirits by the drink;
(2)
The amount of tax due for the related period; and
(3)
Such other information as the city manager or his designee may require.
(c)
Delivery of return and remittance. The person required to file the return shall deliver the return, together with the remittance of the net amount of tax due, to the:
City Manager, City of Hartwell
P.O. Box 309
Hartwell, Georgia 30643
(d)
Collection; reimbursement to licensees. Licensees collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and paying the amount due, if the amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be the same rate authorized for deductions from state tax under O.C.G.A. § 48-8-1 et seq.
(Ord. No. 2007-05, § 3-307, 1-7-2008; Ord. No. 2008-01, § 5(3-307), 3-3-2008)
Sec. 4-524. - Deficiency determinations—Generally.
(a)
Recomputation. If the city manager or his designee is not satisfied with the return of the tax levied under this subdivision or the amount of the tax levied under this subdivision required to be paid to the city by any person, the city manager may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within the city manager's possession or that may come into the city manager's possession. More than one deficiency determination may be made on the amount due for any one-month period.
(b)
Interest. The amount of the determination, exclusive of penalties, shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month or any fraction of a month from the 20th day after the close of the monthly period for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned until the date of payment.
(c)
Offsetting overpayments. In making a determination, the city manager or his designee may offset overpayments, for a period, against underpayments, for another period, against penalties and against the interest on underpayments.
(d)
Penalty—Negligence or disregarding rules and regulations. If any part of the deficiency for which a deficiency determination has been made is due to negligence or disregard of rules and regulations, a penalty of 15 percent of the amount of such deficiency shall be added thereto.
(e)
Same—Fraud or intent to evade. If any part of the deficiency for which a deficiency determination is made is due to fraud or an intent to evade any section of this subdivision or other authorized rules and regulations, a penalty of 25 percent of the deficiency shall be added thereto.
(f)
Notice. The city manager or his designee shall give to the licensee written notice of the city manager's deficiency determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail, such service shall be addressed to the licensee at the licensee's address as it appears in the records of the license division, department of finance. For service by mail or any notice required by this subdivision, the service is complete at the time of deposit in the United States post office.
(g)
Time limits. Except for a fraud, the intent to evade this subdivision or authorized rules or regulations or the failure to make a return, every notice of a deficiency determination shall be mailed within three years after the 20th day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period shall last expire.
(Ord. No. 2007-05, § 3-308, 1-7-2008)
Sec. 4-525. - Same—When return not filed.
(a)
Authority; estimate of gross receipts. If any licensee fails to make a return for the tax levied under this subdivision, the city manager or his designee shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the licensee or, as the case may be, of the amount of the total sales in this city which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period in respect to which the licensee failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information that is or may come into the possession of the city manager or his designee. Upon the basis of this estimate, the city manager or his designee shall compute and determine the amount required to be paid by the city, adding to the sum thus determined a penalty equal to 15 percent thereof. One or more determinations may be made for one or for more than one period.
(b)
Offsets; interest. In making a determination, the city manager or his designee may offset overpayments for a period or penalties and against the interest on the underpayments. The interest on underpayments shall be computed in the manner set forth in subsection (c) of this section.
(c)
Interest on amount due. The amount of the determination, exclusive of penalties, shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month or any fraction of a month from the 20th day after the close of the monthly period for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned, until the date of payment.
(d)
Penalty for fraud or intent to evade. If the failure of any person to file a return is due to fraud or an intent to evade this subdivision or rules and regulations, a penalty of 25 percent of the amount required to be paid by the person, exclusive of penalties, shall be added thereto in addition to the 15 percent penalty provided in section 4-526.
(e)
Notice. Promptly after making a determination, the city manager or his designee shall give to the person written notice to be served personally or by mail in the manner prescribed for service of notice of a deficiency determination.
(Ord. No. 2007-05, § 3-309, 1-7-2008)
Sec. 4-526. - Delinquency—Penalties and interest.
Any licensee who fails to pay the tax imposed under this subdivision to the city or who fails to pay any amount of such tax required to be collected and paid to the city within the time required shall pay a penalty of 15 percent of the tax or amount of the tax, in addition to the tax or amount of the tax, plus interest on the unpaid tax or any portion thereof as set forth in section 4-525(c).
(Ord. No. 2007-05, § 3-310, 1-7-2008)
Sec. 4-527. - Same—Collection.
(a)
Action. At any time within three years after any tax levied under this subdivision or any amount of tax required to be collected under this subdivision become due and payable and at any time within three years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, the city manager or his designee may bring an action in the courts of this state, any other state or of the United States in the name of the city to collect the amount delinquent together with penalties and interest, court fees, filing fees, attorney's fees and other legal fees incident thereto.
(b)
Successors or assigns of operator to withhold tax from purchase. If any licensee liable for any amount under this subdivision sells or terminates the business, the licensee's successors or assigns shall withhold sufficient of the purchase price to cover such amount until the former owner produces a receipt from the license division, department of finance, showing that the amount has been paid or a certificate stating that no amount is due.
(c)
Liability for failure to withhold. If the purchaser of a business fails to withhold purchase price as required, the purchaser becomes personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be withheld by the purchaser to the extent of the purchase price, valued in money. Within 30 days after receiving a written request from the purchaser for a certificate, the license division of the department of finance shall either issue the certificate or mail notice to the purchase at the purchaser's address as it appears on the records of the license division, department of finance, of the amount that must be paid as a condition of issuing the certificate. The time within which the obligation of a successor may be enforced shall start to run at the time the operator sells the business or at the time that the determination against the operator becomes final, whichever event shall last occur.
(d)
Tax credit; penalty or interest erroneously collected. Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty or interest has been paid more than once or has been erroneously collected or received by the city under this subdivision, it may be offset as provided in section 4-223(c). If the operator or person determines that such person has overpaid or paid more than once, which fact has not been determined by the city manager or his designee, such person will have three years from date of payment to file claim in writing stating the specific ground upon which claim is founded. The claim shall be audited. If the claim is approved, the excess amount paid the city may be credited on any amounts due and payable from the person by whom it was paid or such person's successors or assigns.
(Ord. No. 2007-05, § 3-311, 1-7-2008)
