ARTICLE II. - ADMINISTRATOR

Sec. 4-31. - Authority.
The administrator shall enforce this chapter. The administrator shall have the power and authority to make and publish reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with this chapter or other laws of the city, state or the constitution of the state or the United States for the administration and enforcement of this chapter and the collection of the taxes under this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2001-01, § 1(3-101), 3-5-2001)
Sec. 4-32. - Reports.
In the administration of this chapter, the administrator may require the filing of reports by any person having in the person's possession or custody information relating to sales of beverages that are subject to taxation under this chapter. The reports shall be filed with the license division, department of finance, when required and shall set forth the price charged for each sale, the dates of sales and the other information as may be required.
(Ord. No. 2001-01, § 1(3-101), 3-5-2001)
Sec. 4-33. - Confidentiality.
(a)
The administrator or any person having an administrative duty under this chapter shall not make known in any manner the business affairs, operations or information obtained by an audit of books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any licensee or any other person visited or examined in the discharge of official duty.
(b)
The administrator or any person having an administrative duty under this chapter shall not make known the amount of source of income, profits, losses, expenditures or any particular thereof set forth or disclosed in any return or permit any return or copy thereof or any book containing any abstract or particulars thereof to be seen or examined by any person not having the administrative duty under this chapter, except for judicial proceedings or other proceedings necessary to collect the tax levied and assessed.
(c)
Successors, receivers, trustees, executors, administrators, assignees and guarantors, if directly interested, may be given information as to the items included in the measure and amount of unpaid tax or amounts of tax required to be collected, interest and penalties.
(Ord. No. 2001-01, § 1(3-101), 3-5-2001)
Sec. 4-34. - Examination of records; audits.
The administrator may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any licensee liable for the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the licensee to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(Ord. No. 2001-01, § 1(3-101), 3-5-2001)
Secs. 4-35—4-47. - Reserved.
