ARTICLE II. - ZONING DISTRICTS

Sec. 42-21. - Established.
For the purpose of this chapter, the city is hereby divided into use districts as set out in the following table:
EXPAND
R-1 Single-Family Residential District
R-1A Single-Family Residential District
R-1B Single-Family Residential District
R-2 Multiple-Family Residential District
MHP Mobile Home Park District
O-I Office-Institutional District
B-1 Neighborhood Business District
B-2 General Business District
M-1 Light Industrial District
M-2 Heavy Industrial District
PUD Planned Unit Development District
  (Ord. of 10-2-1995, § 86-401)
Sec. 42-22. - Official zoning map—Created.
(a)
The location and boundaries of the districts listed in section 42-21 are hereby established as shown on a map entitled "Official Zoning Map of the City of Hartwell, Georgia." The zoning map, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby incorporated and adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this chapter.
(b)
The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the mayor, attested by the city clerk, and bear the city seal or that of a notary public under the following words:
"This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in Chapter 42 of the Code of the City of Hartwell, Georgia,"
together with the date of the adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived. The official zoning map may be reproduced so that additional copies of said map are made available, upon proper certification as described in this subsection.
(c)
If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the applicable laws of the state, changes are made in boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official zoning map, such changes shall be entered on the official zoning map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the city, with appropriate entry or indication of such amendment on the official zoning map. The formal action by the city commission to change the boundaries of the official zoning map shall be sufficient to make such zoning district change effective. Upon such changes, the zoning administrator is authorized to enter such changes on the official zoning map, and readoption of the said map shall not be required.
(d)
No changes of any nature shall be made in the official zoning map or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this chapter. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
(e)
Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning map that may from time to time be made or published, the official zoning map shall be located in the zoning administrator's office and shall be the final authority as to the current zoning status of land, water areas, buildings and other structures in the city.
(Ord. of 10-2-1995, § 86-402)
Sec. 42-23. - Same—Replacement.
(a)
In the event that the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and additions, the city may adopt a new official zoning map that shall supersede the prior official zoning map. The new official zoning map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions in the prior official zoning map, but no such correction shall have the effect of amending the original official zoning map or any subsequent amendment thereof. The new official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the mayor, attested by the city clerk, and bear the city seal or a notary public under the following words:
"This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes and replaces the Official Zoning Map adopted (date of adoption of map being replaced) as part of the Chapter 42 of the Code of the City of Hartwell, Georgia."
(b)
Unless the prior official zoning map has been lost, or has been totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof remaining, shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or amendment.
(Ord. of 10-2-1995, § 86-403)
Sec. 42-24. - Interpretation of district boundaries.
(a)
Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline of streets or highways, street right-of-way lines or railroad right-of-way lines or such lines extended, such centerline, street right-of-way lines, or railroad right-of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(b)
Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the corporate city limit line, such corporate limit line shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(c)
Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following property lines or such lines extended, such property lines or such lines extended, as indicated by boundary survey, deed or legal description maintained in the official file of said zoning adoption or amendment, if available, shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(d)
Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline of streambeds or riverbeds, such centerline shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(e)
In the case where the exact location of a boundary cannot be determined by the foregoing methods, the city shall, upon application, determine the location of the boundary.
(Ord. of 10-2-1995, § 86-404)
Sec. 42-25. - District boundary line divides lot of single ownership.
Where a boundary line as appearing on the official zoning map divides a lot in single ownership at the time of the enactment of these regulations, the requirements for the district in which the greater portion of the lot lies may be extended to the balance of the lot without recourse or amendment procedure; provided that this provision shall not apply to a double frontage lot. In the case of a double frontage lot, the restrictions of the district applying to the adjoining lots which front on the same street as the lot frontage in question shall apply.
(Ord. of 10-2-1995, § 86-405)
Sec. 42-26. - Designation after street abandonment.
Where a public street, alley or other right-of-way is officially vacated or abandoned, the regulations applicable to the property to which it reverted shall apply to such vacated or abandoned public street, alley or right-of-way.
(Ord. of 10-2-1995, § 86-406)
Secs. 42-27—42-55. - Reserved.
