ARTICLE XI. - MHP—MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT

Sec. 42-312. - Purpose; intent.
The MHP—Mobile Home Park District is intended to provide areas for mobile home and manufactured home pads, which are leased rather than subdivided for individual ownership, that are served by public water, sanitary sewer and recreational amenities.
(Ord. of 10-2-1995, § 86-1201)
Sec. 42-313. - Permitted uses.
(a)
Mobile homes and manufactured homes that shall not include mobile homes on individual lots under separate ownership. Replacement of nonconforming mobile homes in a conforming or nonconforming mobile home park is permitted. Commercial uses with an individual mobile or manufactured homes are not permitted. Each mobile home or manufactured home must be installed on a safe and satisfactory foundation, in compliance with applicable federal, state and local law. It shall not be necessary, however, for the mobile home or manufactured home to have a complete masonry or concrete perimeter foundation, as long as the foundation utilized is safe and complies with applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and as long as complete skirting of an opaque material, properly ventilated, is installed around the entire perimeter of the manufactured home or mobile home to enclose the area between the bottom of the structure and the ground. The material utilized as skirting shall be a material or product designed or manufactured for the purpose of serving as skirting and enclosing the area between the bottom of such manufactured home or mobile home and the ground. Further, each mobile home or manufactured home shall be properly ventilated.
(b)
Administration buildings and customary laundry and service buildings.
(c)
Community centers and recreation facilities intended to serve residents of the district.
(d)
Customary accessory uses and structures clearly incidental to one or more permitted uses and structures.
(e)
Public and semi-public buildings, structures and uses.
(Ord. of 10-2-1995, § 86-1202; Ord. No. 99-011, § 7, 9-7-1999)
Sec. 42-314. - Development regulations.
Development for mobile home parks in the MHP—Mobile Home Park District shall conform to the following regulations:
(1)
Site plan approval required. All mobile home park developments or expansions of existing development shall require site plan approval by the city.
(2)
Location and frontage. A MHP—Mobile Home Park District development shall be located on property with a minimum frontage of 200 feet on a public street.
(3)
Street requirement. Interior roads serving the development shall be constructed to city standards as specified in the city subdivision regulations and in addition shall have a minimum pavement width of 20 feet. If dedicated to the public, the roads within the development shall have a minimum right-of-way width of 40 feet.
(4)
Lot area and width. A MHP—Mobile Home District development shall have a minimum area of 15 contiguous acres and a lot width of at least 200 feet.
(5)
Density. The maximum density of a MHP—Mobile Home Park District development is 10.4 units per acre.
(6)
Recreation and other community facilities. Not less than ten percent of the total area of the development shall be devoted to recreation and other community use facilities for those mobile home parks designed for or containing ten or more mobile homes.
(7)
Perimeter setback required. No mobile home or other building or structure shall be located closer than 40 feet to any mobile home park perimeter property boundary.
(8)
Perimeter screening required. A landscaped screen consisting of dense evergreen trees and/or shrubs and having a minimum width of 35 feet adjacent to all public rights-of-way and 15 feet along all other property lines shall be required. A minimum six-foot high opaque fence or wall may be erected along property lines not abutting a public right-of-way in lieu of such landscaped screen. All perimeter screening must be maintained.
(9)
Utilities. All mobile home parks shall be served by approved public water and public sanitary sewer systems.
(10)
Refuse collection. Each mobile home park shall provide refuse collection pads at locations convenient to each mobile home space, but in no case more than 50 feet from the street serving each mobile home.
(11)
Space numbering. Each mobile home space shall be provided with a sign, not less than one-half square foot in area, which indicates the appropriate space number or address.
(Ord. of 10-2-1995, § 86-1203)
Sec. 42-315. - Mobile home and mobile home space requirements.
Each mobile home shall be located on a separate pad in accordance with the following regulations:
(1)
Space size and width. Each mobile home space within the development shall contain a minimum space size of 3,500 square feet and a minimum space width of 20 feet.
(2)
Setbacks. Each mobile home shall be setback a minimum of ten feet from the front space line or street right-of-way, three feet from the side space line, and five feet from the rear space line.
(3)
Foundations and tie-downs. Each mobile home shall be supported by piers and foundations and shall be anchored to the ground in accordance with building code requirements to secure the mobile home against uplift, sliding, rotation and overturning. Each dwelling must be installed on a safe and satisfactory foundation, in compliance with applicable federal, state and local law. It shall not be necessary, however, for the dwelling to have a complete masonry or concrete perimeter foundation, as long as the foundation utilized is safe and complies with applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and as long as complete skirting of an opaque material, properly ventilated, is installed around the entire perimeter of the mobile home to enclose the area between the bottom of the structure and the ground. The material utilized as skirting shall be a material or product designed or manufactured for the purpose of serving as skirting and enclosing the area between the bottom of such mobile home and the ground. Further, each mobile home shall be properly ventilated.
(4)
Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles in mobile home parks shall be limited to motor homes and travel trailers that have toilet, bath and kitchen facilities and such use shall be limited to 120 days with no extensions.
(Ord. of 10-2-1995, § 86-1204; Ord. No. 99-011, § 8, 9-7-1999)
Sec. 42-316. - Responsibilities—Management.
(a)
The person to whom a permit for a mobile home park is issued shall provide adequate supervision to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
(b)
The park management shall notify park occupants of all applicable provisions of this article and inform them of their duties and responsibilities under this article and regulations issued pursuant to this article.
(c)
The park management shall supervise the placement of each mobile home on its mobile home space that includes securing its stability and installing all utility connections.
(d)
The park management shall maintain a register containing the names of all park occupants. Such register shall be available to any authorized person inspecting the park.
(Ord. of 10-2-1995, § 86-1205)
Sec. 42-317. - Same—Occupant.
(a)
The park occupant shall comply with all applicable requirements of this article and shall maintain such occupant's mobile home lot, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
(b)
The park occupant shall be responsible for proper placement of such occupant's mobile home on its mobile home space and proper installation of all utility connections in accordance with the instructions of the park management.
(c)
No owner or person in charge of a dog, cat or other pet animal shall permit it to run at large or to commit any nuisance within the limits of any mobile home park.
(Ord. of 10-2-1995, § 86-1206)
Secs. 42-318—42-337. - Reserved.
