Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal Home Rule Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; limitations on home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; authority to adopt ordinances for regulation of matters for which no provision has been made by general law, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; duty to codify ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19; inspection of public records, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq.; requirements for publication of code, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19; maximum penalties that may be imposed by municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-35-6, 36-32-1, 36-32-5; additional penalties and bond in certain criminal and traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5; municipal corporation defined, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-1.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in this chapter and the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as "The Code of Ordinances, City of Hartwell, Georgia," and may be so cited. The Code may also be cited by the short title, "Hartwell City Code."
(Code 1989, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Authority to adopt ordinances for regulation of matters for which no provision has been made by general law, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; duty to codify ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction.
(a)
Applicability. In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council. The rules of construction and definitions set out in this section shall not be applied to any section of this Code which contain any express provisions excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context of the section may be repugnant thereto.
(b)
Liberal construction; minimum requirements; overlapping provisions.
(1)
The ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter when they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter.
(2)
In all interpretations the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the city council, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil, and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate any provision hereof, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
(3)
All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the city council may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare.
(4)
Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions on the subject matter than the other provisions of this Code, the provisions imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. The specific provision controls over the general provision.
(c)
Bond requirements. When a bond is required by law, an undertaking in writing, without seal, is sufficient; and in all bonds where the names of the obligors do not appear in the bond, but are subscribed thereto, they are bound thereby.
(Code 1989, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1.
Sec. 1-3. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Code, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Advice and consent. Whenever the term "advice and consent" of the city council is used in this Code it means an affirmative vote of the majority of the entire city council.
As soon as possible. The term "as soon as possible" means within a reasonable time, having due regard to all the circumstances.
City. The term "the city" or "this city" means the City of Hartwell, Georgia. Where appropriate, the term "the city" or "this city" also means duly authorized officials, officers and employees of the city.
City council, council, mayor and council, governing authority, or governing body. The term "city council," "council," "mayor and council," "governing authority," or "governing body" means the city council of the City of Hartwell, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of Ordinances of Hartwell, Georgia.
Computation of time. When a number of days are prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, only the first and last day shall be counted. If the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise such privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action shall fall on a public or legal holiday as set forth in state law, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following business day to exercise such privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, an intermediate Saturday, Sunday and legal holiday shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. Where a provision involves two or more items, conditions, provisions or events connected by any of the conjunctions "and," "or," "either/or," or "neither/nor," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows; provided that in appropriate cases the terms "and" and "or" are interchangeable:
(1)
The term "and" indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
(2)
The term "or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events may apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
The terms "either/or" and "neither/nor" indicate that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply singly, but not in combination.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means the County of Hart, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" means the city court.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or other officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, the term "delegation of authority" means to authorize such department head or officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Department, city council, agency. The name or title of any department, city council or agency, unless otherwise specifically stated, shall be read as though the words "of the City of Hartwell, Georgia" were added thereto.
Gender. A word importing, the masculine gender only shall extend and be implied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Joint authority. Provisions giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Judge. The term "judge" means the judge of the city court.
Keeper, proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean a person, as the term "person" is defined in this section, whether acting by himself or through an agent or employee.
May. The term "may" is permissive.
Mayor. The term "mayor" means the mayor of the city.
Mayor and council. The term "mayor and council" means the mayor and city council of the city.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Municipality. The term "municipality" shall be synonymous with the term "city," "town," or "municipal corporation."
Number. The singular number shall include the plural and the plural number shall include the singular.
Oath. The term "oath" means an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the words "swear" or "sworn."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Officials or officers. Whenever reference is made to officials, the city council, commissions, departments or other municipal agents by title only, such reference shall be read as though followed by the words "of the City of Hartwell, Georgia."
Ordinance. The term "ordinance" means a legislative act of the city council of a general and permanent nature.
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, and any other group action as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as defined in this section.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real, personal and mixed estates and interests.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, shopping center, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned, and any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or to congregate.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Reasonable time or reasonable notice. The term "reasonable time" or "reasonable notice" means only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act required.
Resolution. The term "resolution" means a legislative act of the city council of a special or temporary character.
Shall. The term "shall" is mandatory.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians. The term "sidewalk" does not include any unimproved area between the curbline and improved walkways.
Signature, subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark intended as such when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Statute. The term "statute," unless otherwise specifically stated, refers to the indicated portion of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Street. The term "street" includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, allay, viaduct or bridge and the approaches thereto, within the city.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," when applied to a building or land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Week. The term "week" means seven days.
Will. The term "will" is mandatory.
Writing or written. The terms "writing" and "written" include printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1989, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-4. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections and subsections of this Code are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections or subsections, nor as any part of the section or subsection, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections or subsections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Code 1989, § 1-3)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect.
(Code 1989, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-6. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect the remaining clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Code 1989, § 1-5)
State Law reference— Severability of state legislation, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-7. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
modified
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to the passage of the ordinances originally included in this Code, which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and added hereto. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from this Code by omission from the reprinted pages affected thereby.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of The Code of Ordinances, City of Hartwell, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provision may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not theretofore existing in this Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That The Code of Ordinances, Hartwell, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which said section (or article or chapter) reads as follows:…." The new section (or article or chapter) may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be, or by setting them out at length in the repealing ordinance.
(Code 1989, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-8. - Supplementation of Code.
modified
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the council. A supplement to this Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in this Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into this Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, this Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement. Charter amendments may be included in like manner.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of this Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from this Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of this Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in this Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the term "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ through _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of this Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into this Code;
but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in this Code.
(Code 1989, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-9. - General penalty; continuing violations; abatement of nuisances.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance or city resolution amending this Code, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in such Code, ordinance or resolution the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor in this Code or by general law, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance or resolution shall be punishable by:
(1)
A fine not to exceed $3,500.00;
(2)
Imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days;
(3)
A sentence to perform labor on the roads and streets or other public works of the city for not more than 90 days; or
(4)
Any one or more of the penalties stated in subsections (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
Each day any violation of any provision of this Code or of any ordinance or resolution shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
In addition to the penalties provided in this section, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated by the city, as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Code 1989, § 1-8)
State Law reference— Maximum penalties, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-35-6, 36-32-1, 36-32-5; additional penalties in certain traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5.
Sec. 1-10. - Fees established by resolution.
Fees for permits, licenses and other city services shall be as established from time to time by city council resolution and set forth in the separate fee schedule adopted by the city and available for inspection in the city clerk's office.
Sec. 1-11. - Provisions as continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are substantially the same as ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of the ordinance from which this Code is derived shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 1989, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-12. - Altering Code, ordinance or other public document.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, mutilate, or in any other manner alter any ordinance book or minute book, or any notice posted by the city for the benefit of the public, or any other document or record of the city municipal government.
(Code 1989, § 1-10)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-13. - Ordinances, etc., not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any rates, fees or charges consistent with this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(3)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations, such as prescribing through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic or limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones;
(4)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code fixing salaries of officials, officers or employees of the city;
(5)
Any budget ordinance or appropriation ordinance;
(6)
Any ordinance levying any tax;
(7)
Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution to any person;
(8)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening or vacating any street or public way in the city;
(9)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(10)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor;
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city;
(12)
Any ordinance establishing or changing the boundary of the city; and
(13)
Any ordinance regulating zoning or subdividing in the city.
All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Code 1989, § 1-11)
Sec. 1-14. - Court costs; fees; warrants; technology surcharge.
(a)
Upon conviction of the violation of a municipal ordinance in the city municipal court the defendant shall be obligated to pay any and all surcharges and costs provided by this section, and all costs accruing by the court for the prosecution of the case. The municipal court judge shall determine the costs, surcharges and costs of prosecution and such costs shall be a lien against the property of the person so convicted.
(b)
Upon conviction, a five percent surcharge shall be added to the costs of prosecution.
(c)
The cost of a warrant for the violation of a municipal ordinance issued by the municipal court judge, a magistrate or other city official authorized to issue warrants shall be $10.00.
(d)
In addition to all other fees imposed by the municipal court, this Code or applicable law, there shall be imposed by the municipal court a technology surcharge in the amount of $15.00 per offense for all offenses, except those offenses contained in O.C.G.A. § 40-8-76.
(1)
All revenue derived from the technology surcharge shall be utilized by the city to provide technology support for the city's law enforcement and municipal court functions. Two-thirds of the technology surcharge fees actually collected shall be allocated to and made available to the police department and one-third of the surcharge fees actually collected shall be allocated to and made available to the finance department.
(2)
As used in this section, the term "technology support" means computer hardware, computer software and other machinery or equipment which will be used to improve the efficiency or safety of sessions of the municipal court, or the performance of other tasks directly related to municipal court operations.
(Code 1989, § 1-12; Ord. of 7-1-1991; Ord. No. 2004-03, § 2, 7-6-2004)
State Law reference— Maximum penalties that may be imposed by municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-35-6, 36-32-1, 36-32-5; additional penalties and bond in certain criminal and traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5; powers of municipal court judges in criminal cases, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-3; jurisdiction of municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-6 et seq.
