ARTICLE IX. - PROVISION OF LEGAL DEFENSE FOR ELECTED OFFICIALS, APPOINTED OFFICIALS, AND COUNTY EMPLOYEES

Sec. 2-400. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following words shall have the meanings herein ascribed:
County elected or appointed official: Any person elected to any county office, or appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Lee County to any county board, authority, or commission of Lee County.
County employee: Any person formerly or presently employed by Lee County, or by a county board, authority or commission.
Civil action: Any claim, demand, or cause of action seeking damages, whether such damages are compensatory or punitive, mandamus, injunctive or other relief, that is filed in a federal or state court (1) where a county elected or appointed official or county employee is named as a defendant; and (2) where the actions upon which the claim is based occurred, (a) with respect to a county elected or appointed official, when he or she was acting in the course of his or her duties as an elected or appointed official, and (b) with respect to a county employee, when he or she was acting within the course of his or her employment. The term "civil action" shall only include actions based upon negligence, violation of contract rights, or violation of constitutional or statutory rights of the claimant.
Costs of defense: All reasonable costs involved in preparation for and trial of any civil action, including, reasonable attorney's fees, court costs, and out-of-pocket expenses.
Good faith: A reasonable belief that the action complained of was proper and within the scope of the official's or employee's duties to Lee County. The existence of a reasonable belief shall be based upon an evaluation of the facts and circumstances known to the official or employee at the time of the occurrence of the action subject to such complaint.
(Ord. of 6-19-2007)
Sec. 2-401. - Civil actions—Payment of costs of defense.
Any county elected or appointed official, and any county employee, against whom any civil action (as herein defined) is brought or threatened by reason of any action taken by such county officer, county appointed official, or county employee taken in good faith in the course of his or her duties shall be indemnified by Lee County from Lee County's general fund for the costs of defense, including reasonable attorney's fees, actually paid or incurred by such county officer, county appointed official, or county employee in connection with proceedings related to the defense or settlement of such action. Such costs of defense shall only be authorized for payment upon compliance with and subject to the following:
(1)
A detailed written request regarding the payment of costs of defense under this article shall be submitted by the county elected official, county appointed official, or county employee seeking such reimbursement to the county manager, and if, after review of the request, the county manager determines that there is probable cause to believe that such request may be sufficient to authorize payment of the costs of defense under this article, then such request shall be submitted to the board of commissioners for consideration at the next county commission voting meeting which is scheduled to occur no sooner than 30 days of the date such request is submitted. Such written request shall contain, at a minimum, identification of the claimants, the basis of the claim, the reason why the claim cannot be defended by the county attorney or legal counsel hired by the county's liability insurance carrier, the estimate of the total costs of defense that would be paid by the county, and such other information as may be required by the county manager.
(2)
No such costs shall be paid except upon approval of the governing body of the county. Any attorney's fees paid shall be based upon reasonable hourly rate charges for such attorney and, unless agreed by the governing body, such hourly rate for attorney's fees shall not exceed the normal hourly rate then charged by the county attorney. Fees charged for paralegal time shall be no greater than one-half of the attorney's fees paid to the attorney. The governing body shall be authorized to impose a maximum amount of costs of defense which it will pay in connection with any particular civil action or in connection with any particular county elected official, county appointed official, or county employee, and any approval of the payment of the costs of defense shall not prohibit the governing body from rejecting future payment requests in connection with the same civil action.
(3)
The attorney selected to provide a defense for the county official, county appointee, or county employee shall be selected by the county official, county appointee, or county employee in his or her sole discretion, and any costs of defense not covered in accord with the provisions of this article shall be the sole responsibility of the county official, county appointee, or county employee, and Lee County shall have no liability therefor.
(4)
No costs of defense shall be payable hereunder for any such costs that were incurred by the county elected official, appointed official, or county employee prior to the date of approval of the payment of defense costs for the elected official, appointed official, or county employee in connection with the subject civil action unless the governing body determines that the previously incurred costs of defense would have been paid hereunder except for the legal inability of the county elected official, appointed official, or county employee to make such request under this article or for the excusable neglect of the county elected official, appointed official, or county employee in failing to submit such request in a timely manner.
(Ord. of 6-19-2007; Ord. of 5-28-2013)
Sec. 2-402. - Limitation on hiring outside counsel.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article to the contrary, a count elected official, county appointee, or county employee shall not be authorized to hire or retain outside counsel under this article where a civil action is being defended or is to be defended by the county attorney or by legal counsel retained by the county's liability insurance carrier unless there are claims raised in the civil action which are not claims covered by the county's liability insurance and the county attorney is unable to defend such claims due to a conflict of interest or for some other reason as determined by either the county attorney or the board of commissioners. In such event, outside counsel shall only provide a defense in connection with such claims that are not covered by such insurance and shall not, in any manner, replace or duplicate the legal defense being provided by the county attorney or the attorney hired by the county's liability insurance carrier. Unless there is a conflict of interest, if outside counsel is hired, the county attorney shall monitor the legal proceedings, and shall make such reports to the board of commissioners as he or she may deem appropriate or as requested by the board regarding the civil action. Any outside counsel hired under this article shall cooperate with the county attorney in connection with proceedings in the civil action, subject only to the provisions of Rules of Professional Conduct of the Georgia Bar Association.
(Ord. of 6-19-2007)
Sec. 2-403. - Counter-claims and cross claims.
Any counter-claim or cross claim filed by or on behalf of a county official, a county appointee, or a county employee in a civil action shall be filed and prosecuted at the sole cost and expense of the county official, county appointee, or county employee filing such counter-claim or cross claim, and Lee County shall not have any responsibility for the payment of any costs, judgments, or other expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred as a result of or in connection with such counter-claim or cross claim.
(Ord. of 6-19-2007)
Sec. 2-404. - Unreasonable or excessive legal fees.
Nothing in this article shall require Lee County to pay any attorney's fees, court costs, or out-of-pocket expenses on behalf of a county elected official, county appointee, or county employee where the governing body determines that such fees, costs, or expenses are unreasonable or excessive.
(Ord. of 6-19-2007)
Sec. 2-405. - Waiver of immunity.
The provisions of this article shall not be construed as a waiver of any grant of immunity to Lee County, its elected officials, its appointees, or its or employees under the federal or state constitution, under any federal or state statute, or under any rule of common law.
(Ord. of 6-19-2007)
Sec. 2-406. - Contract rights.
This article shall not be construed as creating or establishing any property rights or contractual rights between Lee County and any elected official, appointed official, or employee of Lee County. As a result, the provisions of this article may be amended, modified, revised, or repealed at any time by the governing body of the county, and any amendment, modification, revision, or repeal shall become effective as of the date that such amendment, modification, revision, or repeal is approved by the governing body and shall apply in all respects to any claims for reimbursement for costs of defense submitted from and after such date of amendment, modification, revision, or repeal, whether or not such civil action was pending before the date of such repeal or became pending after the date of such repeal.
(Ord. of 6-19-2007)
Sec. 2-407. - Method of payment of costs of defense.
Subject to the provisions of section 2-401(2) of this article, where the governing body has agreed to pay the costs of defense for a county elected official, county appointee, or county employee, invoices for such charges shall be submitted to the county manager on a monthly basis for approval by the governing body, and no such invoices shall be paid without the governing body's approval.
(Ord. of 6-19-2007; Ord. of 5-28-2013)
Sec. 2-408. - Assignment; guaranty.
Nothing in this article shall be construed to authorize an assignment of any right to receive reimbursement for costs of defense by any county elected official, county appointee, or county employee to any third party. In addition, this article shall not be construed as a guaranty of payment of any costs of defense by Lee County to any county elected official, county appointed official, county employee, or any third party.
(Ord. of 6-19-2007)
Sec. 2-409. - No condonation or waiver; payment of judgments.
(a)
Payment of costs of defense under the terms of this article shall not be construed as a condonation of the action of any county elected official, county appointee, or county employee; nor shall payment of costs of defense under the terms of this article act as a waiver of any right that Lee County may have to remove county elected officials, county appointees, or county employees from office under applicable law or local ordinances; nor shall this article be construed to authorize the payment of costs of defense in connection with an action brought by Lee County or any of its boards, commissions, and authorities against any county elected official, county appointee, or county employee.
(b)
Nothing in this article shall be construed to impose any liability upon Lee County, or its elected officials, agents, or employees for the payment or satisfaction of any judgment, or of any portion thereof, rendered against any county elected official, county appointed official, or county employee in any civil action.
(Ord. of 6-19-2007)
Sec. 2-410. - Authorization for article.
This article is authorized pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 45-9-21, and shall be construed in all events in accord with that statute, court decisions, and attorney general opinions (both official and unofficial) construing such statute.
(Ord. of 6-19-2007)
Secs. 2-411—2-449. - Reserved.
