ARTICLE II. - ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS

Sec. 70-41. - Districts.
The unincorporated portions of the county are hereby divided into 13 classes of districts known as follows:
AG-1 Active Agricultural
R-1L Low Density, Single-Family Residential
R-1 Single-Family Residential
R-2 Multi-Family Residential
R-3L Low Density, Mixed Use Single-Family Residential
R-3 Mixed Use, Single-Family Residential
C-1 Neighborhood Commercial
C-2 General Commercial
C-3 Commercial Recreation
C-4 Transitional Office
I-1 Light Industry
I-2 Heavy Industry
MHP Manufactured Home Park
(Ord. of 12-2-2002, § 70-41)
Sec. 70-42. - District boundaries.
The boundaries of the above districts are shown on a set of maps designated "Official Zoning Maps, Lee County, Georgia."
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts as shown on the official zoning maps, the following rules shall apply:
(1)
Where zoning district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerlines of roads or highways or railroad right-of-way lines extended, such centerlines or railroad right-of-way lines or such lines extended, shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(2)
Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the county line, or the corporate limits line of any incorporated place or the militia district line of any militia district, or the land lot line of any land lot; such county line, corporate limits line, militia district line or land lot shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(3)
Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets or highways, such district boundaries unless otherwise specifically indicated, shall be construed as being parallel thereto, and each above district boundary shall be shown at scale on the official zoning map of the county.
(4)
Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline of streambeds or riverbeds, such centerlines or such lines extended shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(Ord. of 12-2-2002, § 70-42)
Sec. 70-43. - District boundary lines dividing a lot.
In the event that a district boundary line on the zoning map divides a lot of record held in one ownership on the date of passage of the zoning ordinance, each part of the lot so divided shall be used in conformity with the regulations established by this chapter for the district in which each such parcel is located. Except, that if one zoning district comprises more than 75 percent of said lot area, a use allowed in the district of majority may be extended to the existing property lines beyond the district boundary line in accordance with setbacks and yard requirements of the district into which the use is encroaching, with the administrative approval of the planning director.
(Ord. of 12-2-2002, § 70-43)
Sec. 70-44. - Permitted use table for solar energy system.
PERMITTED USE TABLE FOR SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM
EXPAND
Primary Use AG-1
Ground Mounted SES
Small scale SES CU
Intermediate scale SES CU
Large scale SES CU
CU: Conditional use approval required. If the applicant first obtains a conditional use approval in accordance with the Lee County Zoning Code, the SES facility is allowed in this district, subject to compliance with federal, state, and local statutes, rules, regulations, and ordinances.
  ( Ord. of 1-28-2020, pt. 2 ; Ord. of 10-26-2021 , pt. 2)
Secs. 70-45—70-74. - Reserved.
