ARTICLE X. - AG-1 ACTIVE AGRICULTURE DISTRICT

Sec. 70-311. - Statement of purpose.
The Ag-1, Active Agriculture district was established for the purpose of preserving, promoting, maintaining, and enhancing the use of land for commercial agricultural purposes, to prevent scattered and leap-frog non-farm growth, to protect and preserve natural resource areas and to stabilize increases in public expenditures for such public services as roads and road maintenance, police and fire protection, and schools.
This district is designed to protect and preserve prime agricultural areas for continued agricultural and agriculturally oriented uses. Their loss cannot be readily compensated, since these prime agricultural areas are relatively scarce, particularly on the national level and other areas require more capitol energy and nutrients to provide equal productivity. For these reasons, land should not be converted from the AG-1 district to another zoning classification unless and until there is no other land available in the county to accommodate the nonagricultural uses.
The standards and densities prescribed for this district are intended to preserve the open character of the area and thereby to protect the business of agriculture. This district is intended not to regulate agricultural uses, but to regulate those uses which threaten agriculture. The intent of these regulations for this district is to discourage subdivision of land for typical residential type lots requiring public services such as fire and police protection, paved roads, water, sewer, etc.
This district is generally intended to apply to lands in productive farm operations including:
(1)
Lands historically producing good crop yields or capable of such yields;
(2)
Lands productive for dairying, livestock raising and grazing;
(3)
Other lands which are integral parts of such farm operations;
(4)
Land used to produce specialty crops such as cranberries, mint, sod, fruits and vegetables; and
(5)
Lands capable of productive use through economically feasible improvements such as irrigation.
(Ord. of 12-2-2002, § 70-311)
Sec. 70-312. - Permitted uses.
(a)
Beekeeping.
(b)
Dairying.
(c)
Floriculture (cultivation of ornamental flowering plants).
(d)
Grazing.
(e)
Livestock raising.
(f)
Feedlots.
(g)
Poultry raising.
(h)
Plant nurseries and orchards.
(i)
Raising of grain, grass, mint and seed crops.
(j)
Raising of tree fruit, nuts, and berries.
(k)
Sod farming.
(l)
Vegetable raising.
(m)
Viticulture (grape growing).
(n)
Forest and game management.
(o)
Nature trails and walks.
(p)
Greenhouses.
(q)
One roadside stand per farm, of not, more than 250 square feet, used solely for the sale of products produced on the premises or adjoining premises.
(r)
Single-family residences or manufactured home subject to the requirements of section 70-78 of this chapter.
(s)
Farm dwellings and related structures that remain after farm consolidation may be subdivided from the farm lot subject to the county health department requirements.
(t)
Essential services—telephone, power, etc.
(u)
Public recreation areas.
(v)
Historic sites and areas.
(w)
Agricultural products and livestock processing plants.
(x)
Commercial grain storage and drying.
(y)
Hatcheries.
(z)
Temporary housing for migratory or other farm workers, provided it meets all applicable county regulations.
(aa)
Equestrian trails.
(bb)
Fish farms.
(cc)
Dams and flowages.
(dd)
Governmental or institutional uses such as police and fire stations, highway storage garages, solid waste disposal and sewage treatment plants, gravel pits and quarries, schools, parks and campgrounds, airports and landing strips.
(ee)
Religious uses such as churches, schools, and cemeteries.
(ff)
Nursery schools, kindergartens, or day care facilities provided that all state licensing requirements are met.
(gg)
Customary home occupations and professional offices conducted within and accessory to a permitted agricultural residence. Subject to all other applicable county regulations pertaining to home occupations.
(hh)
Fur farms.
(ii)
Stables and paddocks.
(jj)
The storage and sale of seed, feed, fertilizer and other products essential to agricultural production.
(kk)
Single-family dwellings or manufactured homes exceeding one per farm operation if such additional dwellings cannot be allowed under section 70-78 of this chapter. If granted, said dwelling shall be located on a legally subdivided lot on at least ten acres with 250 feet of road frontage. Setback and height requirements shall be the same as are provided for a regular parcel in the applicable zoning district. The farm tract remaining after such a subdivision must meet the minimum requirements for the applicable zoning district.
(ll)
Primary uses are allowed for small scale ground mounted solar energy systems.
(Ord. of 12-2-2002, § 70-312; Res. No. Z05-040, 9-23-2005; Ord. of 1-28-2020, pt. 3 ; Ord. of 10-26-2021 , pt. 3)
Sec. 70-313. - Conditional uses.
(a)
Single-family dwellings or manufactured homes exceeding one per farm operation if such additional dwellings cannot be allowed through section 70-78 of this chapter. If granted said dwelling shall be located on a legally subdivided lot on at least three acres with 225 feet of road frontage. Setback and height requirements are the same as for a regular parcel in this district. The farm tract left over after such a subdivision must meet the minimum requirements for this district.
(b)
Saw mills.
(c)
Bed and breakfast inns.
(d)
The sale and service of machinery used in agricultural production.
(e)
Facilities for the centralized bulk collection, storage, and distribution of agricultural products to wholesale and retail markets.
(f)
Facilities used to provide veterinarian services for livestock.
(g)
Facilities used in processing agricultural products.
(h)
Other agricultural-related, religious, utility, institutional or governmental uses to those listed in sections 70-313 and 70-314 which are compatible with the purposes of this district, which do not conflict with agricultural use and which are found necessary in light of alternative locations available for such uses.
(i)
Any structure over 100 feet tall.
(j)
Primary uses or accessory uses are allowed, after receiving conditional use approval, for intermediate scale ground mounted solar energy systems and large scale ground mounted solar energy systems.
(Ord. of 12-2-2002, § 70-133; Ord. of 1-28-2020, pt. 4 ; Ord. of 10-26-2021 , pt. 4)
Sec. 70-314. - Area, height, and placement requirements.
AG-1
EXPAND
Minimum Lot Sizes—AG-1 25 acres
Lot Width at Setback 500'
Maximum Lot Coverage 40%
Minimum Building Setback 100'
Minimum Side Setback 20'
Minimum Rear Setback 50'
  (1)
This height limitation shall not apply to grain elevators, silos, windmills, elevator legs, cooling towers, water towers, chimneys and smokestacks, or church spires.
(2)
The minimum distance between buildings on separate lots shall be 20 feet.
(Ord. of 12-2-2002, § 70-314)
Secs. 70-315—70-345. - Reserved.
