ARTICLE IX. - GROUNDWATER RECHARGE AREAS

Sec. 34-301. - Criteria for protection of groundwater recharge areas.
(a)
Background. Variable levels of recharge area protection can be based upon the state's hydrogeology (e.g., areas such as the Dougherty Plain where a major aquifer crops out would receive a relatively high degree of protection whereas other areas, such as the shale hills of northwest Georgia, would receive a lower degree of protection). Recharge area protection within the significant recharge areas would be further refined, based upon the local susceptibility or vulnerability to human induced pollution (e.g., high, medium, or low). The significant recharge areas have already been identified and mapped (about 22 to 23 percent of the state). Pollution susceptibility mapping is ongoing. Existing statutes are adequate for protecting the remaining recharge areas (about 77 to 78 percent of the state).
(b)
Definitions:
(1)
Aquifer means any stratum or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water from a well.
(2)
DRASTIC means the standardized system for evaluating groundwater pollution potential using the hydrogeologic settings described in U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Document EPA-600/2-87-035.
(3)
Pollution susceptibility means the relative vulnerability of an aquifer to being polluted from spills, discharges, leaks, impoundments, applications of chemicals, injections and other human activities in the recharge area.
(4)
Pollution susceptibility maps means maps of relative vulnerability to pollution prepared by the Department of Natural Resources, using the DRASTIC methodology. Pollution susceptibility maps categorize the land areas of the state into areas having high, medium and low ground-water pollution potential.
(5)
Recharge area means any portion of the earth's surface, where water infiltrates into the ground to replenish an aquifer.
(6)
Significant recharge areas means those areas mapped by the Department of Natural Resources in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 edition). Mapping of recharge areas is based on outcrop area, lithology, soil type and thickness, slope, density or lithologic contacts, geologic structure, the presence of karst, and potentiometric surfaces. Significant recharge areas are as follows in the various geologic provinces of Georgia:
a.
In the Valley and Ridge and in the Cumberland Plateau, significant recharge areas are outcrop areas of carbonate rock where low slope (less than eight percent slope) conditions prevail. Such areas commonly are characterized by karst topography (caves and sinkholes).
b.
In the Piedmont and in the Blue Ridge, rocks have little primary porosity, with most groundwater being stored in the overlying soils. The significant recharge areas are those with thicker soils. Field mapping indicates that thick soils in the Piedmont and Blue Ridge are characterized by a density of two or more geologic contacts per four square miles (source: 1976 1:500,000 Geologic Map of Georgia) and slopes lower than eight percent.
c.
In the Coastal Plain, the significant recharge areas are the surface outcroppings of the large and extensively used drinking water aquifers (e.g., the Floridian, the Clayton, etc.) and soils having high permeability according to the 1976 1:750,000 Soils Association Map of Georgia.
(c)
[Criteria.] The following criteria pursuant to O.C.G.A. 12-2-8 shall apply in significant recharge areas within the unincorporated area of Lee County:
(1)
The Department of Natural Resources shall not issue any permits for new sanitary landfills not having synthetic liners and leachate collection systems.
(2)
The Department of Natural Resources shall not issue any new permits for the land disposal of hazardous wastes.
(3)
The Department of Natural Resources shall require all new facilities permitted or to be permitted to treat, store, or dispose of hazardous waste to perform such operations on an impermeable pad having a spill and leak collection system.
(4)
New above-ground chemical or petroleum storage tanks, having a minimum volume of 660 gallons, shall have secondary containment for 110 percent of the volume of such tanks or 110 percent of the volume of the largest tank in a cluster of tanks. Such tanks used for agricultural purposes are exempt, provided they comply with all applicable Federal requirements.
(5)
New agricultural waste impoundment sites shall be lined if they are within:
a.
A high pollution susceptibility area;
b.
A medium pollution susceptibility area and exceed 15 acre-feet;
c.
A low pollution susceptibility area and exceed 50 acre-feet.
As a minimum, the liner shall be constructed of compacted clay having a thickness of one-foot and a vertical hydraulic conductivity of less than 5 x 10-7 cm/sec or other criteria established by the U.S. Soil Conservation Service. (The average size of existing agricultural waste impoundments in Georgia is about 15 acre-feet; sheepsfoot rollers or pans with heavy rubber tires, which are normal equipment for most Georgia earth moving contractors, should be able to compact clay to the recommended vertical hydraulic conductivity.)
(6)
New homes served by septic tank/drain field systems shall be on lots having the following minimum size limitations as identified on Table MT-1 of the Department of Human Resources' Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems (hereinafter "DHR Table MT-1"):
a.
150 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area;
b.
125 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area; and
c.
110 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
(7)
New mobile home parks served by septic tank/drain field systems shall have lots or spaces having the following size limitation as identified on Table MT-2 of the Department of Human Resources' Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems (hereinafter "DHR Table MT-2")
a.
150 percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area;
b.
125 percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area; and
c.
110 percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
(8)
There is hereby exempted from the requirements of (6) or (7) any approved lot of record which was approved by the appropriate county official prior to January 1, 2000.
(9)
No construction may proceed on a building or mobile home to be served by a septic tank unless the county health department first approves the proposed septic tank installation as meeting the requirements of the DHR Manual and (6) and (7) above.
(10)
New facilities which handle hazardous materials, of types and in amounts determined by department of natural resources, shall perform their operations on Impermeable surfaces having spill and leak collection systems, as prescribed by Department of Natural Resources.
(11)
Conservative design shall be required in connection with the issuance of any new permits for the spray irrigation of wastewaters or the land spreading of wastewater sludges in areas having high pollution susceptibility. This shall be accomplished by comparing the Department of Natural Resources Criteria For Slow Rate Land Treatment (February, 1986 or latest edition) with amendments and other technical publications to site specific information submitted by a registered professional engineer for each project.
(12)
Permanent storm water infiltration basins shall not be constructed in areas having high pollution susceptibility.
(13)
Exclusive of mining settling basins, new wastewater treatment basins shall have an impermeable liner in areas having high pollution susceptibility.
(d)
In the event that Lee County's ordinances for recharge area protection are not at least as stringent as the standards required by the Department of Natural Resources, then the standards of the Department of Natural Resources shall control.
(Res. No. LD05-A053, 9-23-2005)
Secs. 34-302—34-400. - Reserved.
