ARTICLE XII. - C-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22.

Sec. 70-381. - Statement of purpose.
The purpose of the general business district is to provide areas for development that permit a wider range of business and entertainment activities than that permitted in the neighborhood business district. The permitted uses would serve not only nearby residential areas, but also people further away. This district is intended for types of businesses and services usually found in major shopping centers and central business districts at the juncture of principal streets. These uses would generate larger volumes of vehicular traffic, would need more off-street parking and loading, and would require more planning to integrate such districts with adjacent residential areas.
(Ord. of 12-2-2002, § 70-381)
Sec. 70-382. - Permitted uses.
(a)
Any retail or service establishment.
(b)
Wholesale stores, storage buildings, warehouses, distributing plants, freezers and lockers.
(c)
Commercial greenhouses and nurseries.
(d)
Adult entertainment establishments provided all requirements of the county adult entertainment ordinance are met.
(e)
Indoor shooting ranges provided all applicable federal, state and local government requirements are met.
(f)
Churches, provided that the proposed site is not less than three acres, and a complete site development plan is submitted with the application for a building permit.
(g)
Clubs and fraternal organizations operating not for profit.
(h)
Hospitals, clinics, sanitariums, nursing homes.
(i)
Nursery schools, kindergartens or day care facilities provided all state licensing requirements are met.
(j)
Mortuaries.
(k)
Family personal care homes (two to six residents); group personal care homes (seven to 15 residents); and congregate personal care homes (16+ residents).
(l)
Child-welfare facility (16+ residents).
(Ord. of 12-2-2002, § 70-382; Ord. of 3-27-2018 , pt. 13)
Sec. 70-383. - Conditional uses.
(a)
Mini-warehouses and open storage for recreational vehicles as secondary accessory uses in a commercial (C-2 general business) district, provided that an authorized primary use on the same lot as the proposed mini-warehouse exists. Mini-warehouses shall be considered to be subordinate and accessory structures to the principal authorized structure on the property where the mini-warehouse is located or to be located. The use of such mini-warehouses shall be clearly incidental to the principal structure and property use which exists upon the lot upon which the mini-warehouse is located or constructed. Any mini-warehouse structure shall be detached from the main structure on the lot and shall not be visible from the roadway fronting the lot upon which the mini-warehouse is located. The county planning and zoning department shall be authorized to require visual buffers and screening so as to prohibit the mini-warehouses from being visible from such roadway.
(b)
Recovery residences;
(c)
Structured housing;
(d)
Transitional housing;
(e)
Rooming house/lodging house (minimum of weekly stay, maximum of 20 rooms.
(f)
Crematoriums connected to and part of a licensed funeral home/mortuary within a fully enclosed structure on the same parcel.
(Ord. of 12-2-2002, § 70-383; Ord. of 3-27-2018 , pt. 14; Ord. of 2-9-2021(2) ; Ord. of 4-27-2021 )
Sec. 70-384. - Restrictions.
The following restrictions shall apply to all businesses covered by this article:
(1)
No manufactured or mobile homes shall be used for commercial purposes except for manufactured home sales offices.
(2)
Buildings constructed under this article shall have an architectural treatment of brick, stone, split-face blocks, painted/stained wood, architectural metal, stucco, or imitations of the same or other high quality architectural treatments approved by the planning director. Notwithstanding the foregoing, prohibited building materials shall include:
a.
Industrial or agricultural metal sheeting profiled single or double skinned metal panels with exposed fasteners); and
b.
Standard painted or unpainted concrete block or plywood.
(3)
All primary facades of a building and any façade that faces the public right-of-way and the façade that incorporates the customer service entrance shall be designed with consistent architectural style, detail, trim, features and roof treatments. Fronts of all buildings facing a street, shall utilize 100 percent approved materials as specified.
(4)
Exterior building materials and colors contribute significantly to the visual impact and aesthetics of the community. Commercial design standards are intended to promote quality, well-planned commercial development and to foster a prosperous and progressive pro-business climate. Guidelines apply to new and redevelopment of commercial buildings and include the following:
a.
Minimum exterior building material standards.
1.
One hundred percent coverage of all exterior visible walls, excluding windows and doors, shall consist of the following materials:
i.
Masonry. Masonry construction shall include all masonry construction, which is composed of solid, cavity, faced or veneered-wall construction or similar materials.
ii.
Stone material used form masonry construction may consist of granite, sandstone, slate, limestone, marble or other hard and durable all-weather stone. Thin-cut stone veneers are acceptable.
iii.
Brick material used for masonry construction shall be composed of hard fired (kiln fired) all-weather common brick or other all-weather facing brick.
iv.
Concrete masonry units (CMU's) with split-face, fluted, scored or other rough texture finish.
v.
Hardi-plank. Hardi-plank composite material or other hard and durable all-weather construction materials.
vi.
Wood. Only when used to provide architectural elements to primary façade (i.e. wood including board and batten, wood shake shingles, and other decorative wood elements, provided wood is durable all-weather material).
vii.
Vinyl siding. Vinyl allowed for use only in an incidental role (i.e. trim, architectural features, standing seam metal roofing or other architectural roofing as approved by the planning director).
viii.
Metal. Metal allowed for use only in an incidental role (i.e. trim, architectural features, standing seam metal roofing or other architectural roofing as approved by the planning director).
b.
Prohibited materials on all exterior walls.
1.
Concrete finish or precast concrete panel (tilt wall) that is not exposed aggregate, hammered or sandblasted.
2.
Smooth finish concrete masonry unit (CMU) or concrete brick i.e. "Cherokee block", with the color and texture of clay brick.
3.
Metal panels.
4.
Plywood, plastic or other synthetic material.
(5)
Building facades with no street frontage or visibility to the public right-of-way may use exterior construction materials consistent with current building codes.
(6)
Outdoor use spaces are encouraged, to provide amenities and a positive and welcoming atmosphere. Courtyards and patios developed with outdoor seating, landscaping and shade provide opportunities for outdoor dining and the benefits of enjoying the area's moderate climate and scenic attractions for both employees and customers.
(7)
Secondary façade standards are applicable to that side of any structure where customer parking is developed to the side or rear of the commercial building. All secondary facades shall be designed with consistent architectural style, detail, trim features and roof treatments of the primary façade. A secondary façade with primary entrance shall meet primary façade requirements.
a.
The use of certain materials on secondary facades is restricted as follows:
1.
Corrugated metal panels shall not cover more than 30 percent of any secondary façade.
2.
Smooth-faced concrete shall not cover more than 30 percent of any secondary façade.
b.
Pedestrian entrances shall be provided for each parking area.
c.
Blank, windowless walls are prohibited. Windows and doors or faux openings shall constitute a minimum of 30 percent of the secondary façade. A mix of materials is encouraged to provide visual interest.
d.
Awnings shall be of fabric, canvas, fixed metal or similar material.
(Ord. of 12-2-2002, § 70-384; Ord. No. 2014-02, 8-26-2014; Ord. of 4-13-2021 )
Sec. 70-385. - Area, height, bulk and placement requirements.
C-2
EXPAND
Minimum Lot Size
Well and septic 1.5 acres
Water and septic .75 acres
Water and sewer Staff review
Lot Width at Setback
Well and septic 150'
Water and septic 100'
Water and sewer Staff review
Minimum Building Setback
Front 35'
Rear 10'
Side 10'
Firewall 0'
No firewall 10'
Maximum Building Height 50'
  *Each lot shall have, at a minimum, a 30-foot-wide access to a public road.
This height limitation shall not apply to grain elevators, silos, windmills, elevator legs, cooling towers, water towers, chimneys and smokestacks, or church spires.
(Ord. of 12-2-2002, § 70-385)
Sec. 70-386. - Protective screening.
Protective screening for C-2 districts adjacent to or across the street (with the exception of arterial or collector roads) from residential zoning districts shall be in compliance with section 70-86 of this chapter.
(Ord. of 12-2-2002, § 70-386)
Secs. 70-387—70-415. - Reserved.
