ARTICLE X. - LAND APPLICATION OF WASTEWATER SLUDGE PROHIBITED

Sec. 34-401. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Land application is the spraying or spreading of sewage sludge on the land surface, the injection of sewage sludge below the land surface, or the incorporation of sewage sludge into the soil at agronomic rates for the purpose of soil conditioning or fertilization of crops or vegetation grown in the soil.
Lee County means the unincorporated areas of Lee County, Georgia.
Sewage sludge means a solid, semi-solid, or liquid residue generated during the treatment of domestic sewage or a combination of domestic sewage and industrial wastewater in a wastewater treatment plant. Sewage sludge includes, but is not limited to, scum or solids removed in primary, secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment processes.
(Ord. of 6-26-2007(1))
Sec. 34-402. - Prohibition of land application of sewage sludge in Lee County.
Unless authorized or permitted by state law or state regulation, the land application of sewage sludge in Lee County shall be prohibited.
(Ord. of 6-26-2007(1))
Sec. 34-403. - Sewage sludge from municipalities or counties outside Lee County.
(a)
The county shall not be authorized to enter into any contract under the provisions of Article IX, Section II, Paragraph III of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1983 for the disposal of solid wastes by land application of sewage sludge in the unincorporated areas of Lee County with any county, or any employee, agent, sub-contractor, or independent contractor of any county located outside of Lee County.
(b)
The county shall not be authorized to enter into any contract under the provisions of Article IX, Section II, Paragraph III of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1983 for the disposal of solid wastes by land application of sewage sludge in the unincorporated areas of Lee County with any municipality, or any employee, agent, sub-contractor, or independent contractor of any municipality located either inside or outside of Lee County.
(Ord. of 6-26-2007(1))
Secs. 34-404—34-500. - Reserved.
Sec. 34-501. - Outdoor watering restrictions.
In accord with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 12-5-7(a.1), persons, which shall include individual persons, businesses, and other legal entities, owning or leasing, or residing upon property within the corporate limits of Lee County, may irrigate with water outdoors daily for the purposes of planting, growing, or maintaining ground cover, trees, shrubs, or other plants only between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.
(Ord. of 8-23-2011)
Sec. 34-502. - Exceptions to outdoor watering limitations.
The following are exceptions to the outdoor watering watering limitation established in section 34-501:
(1)
Commercial agricultural operations as defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
(2)
Capture and reuse of cooling system condensate or storm water in compliance with applicable local ordinances and state guidelines.
(3)
Reuse of gray water in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 31-3-52 and applicable local board of health regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(4)
Use of reclaimed waste water by a designated user from a system permitted by the environmental protection division of the department to provide reclaimed waste water.
(5)
Irrigation of personal food gardens.
(6)
Irrigation of new and replanted plant, seed, or turf in landscapes, golf courses, or sports turf fields during installation and for a period of 30 days immediately following the date of installation.
(7)
Drip irrigation or irrigation using soaker hoses.
(8)
Hand-watering with a hose with automatic cutoff or hand-held container.
(9)
Use of water withdrawn from private water wells or surface water by an owner or operator of property if such well or surface water is on said property.
(10)
Irrigation of horticultural crops held for sale, resale, or installation.
(11)
Irrigation of athletic fields, golf courses, or public turf grass recreational areas.
(12)
Installation, maintenance, or calibration of irrigation systems.
(13)
Hydroseeding.
(Ord. of 8-23-2011)
Secs. 34-503—34-519. - Reserved.
