ARTICLE V. - PROBATE COURT JUDGE[6]
Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1998 Ga. Laws, page 3819, which provides for the nonpartisan nomination and election of the judge of the probate court. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

[DIVISION 1.]

Sec. 1. - Election.
The judge of the Probate Court of Lee County shall be elected by the qualified voters of Lee County in a nonpartisan primary and election. Except as otherwise provided in this act, the judge of the probate court shall be elected pursuant to the general elections laws of Georgia.
Sec. 2. - Term.
Beginning with the election held in 2000 and every four years thereafter, the judge of the probate court shall be elected at the nonpartisan primary and general election immediately preceding the expiration of the term of office of the judge of the probate court and shall take office on January 1 immediately following such election for a term of four years and until such judge's successor is elected and qualified.
Sec. 3. - Nominating candidates at primary election.
Candidates for the office of judge of the probate court shall be nominated in a nonpartisan primary to be held at the same time as and in conjunction with the general primary every four years. A nominating petition shall not be required to place the name of any such candidate on the primary ballot. A candidate may have his or her name placed on the primary ballot by filing a notice of candidacy with the county election superintendent and by paying the qualifying fee.
Sec. 4. - Nominees for general election.
The candidate receiving a majority of votes in the nonpartisan primary shall be the nominee for the office of judge of the probate court and shall be the only candidate for such office to have his or her name appear on the general election ballot. In the event no candidate receives a majority of the votes cast, the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes for the office shall be in a runoff to be held on the same day as a runoff from the general primary, as provided by state law, to determine which candidate will be on the general election ballot.
Sec. 5. - Form of ballot.
The names of all candidates for the office of judge of the probate court shall appear in a separate section of each primary and general election ballot of each elector. No party designation or affiliation shall appear beside the name of any such candidate on any primary or general election ballot, and no candidate for the office of judge of the probate court shall be nominated by any political party.
Sec. 6. - Legislative authority.
This act is enacted pursuant to the authority of O.C.G.A. § 21-2-139.
[DIVISON 2.][7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1965 Ga. Laws, page 2401, which abolishes the former fee system supplemented by a salary and provides for compensation on a salary basis only. Amendments to this Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

Sec. 1. - [Compensation.]
The present mode of compensating the ordinary of Lee County, Georgia, known as the fee system supplemented by a salary, is hereby abolished and in lieu thereof, the ordinary of Lee County shall hereafter be compensated on a salary basis only in the amount and manner as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 2. - [Annual salary.]
The ordinary shall receive an annual salary in the amount of $6,000.00 payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of Lee County.
Sec. 3. - [Salary in lieu of all emoluments.]
Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the salary herein prescribed shall be in lieu of all fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys and all other emoluments and perquisites of whatever kind which shall be allowed the ordinary of Lee County in any capacity whatsoever after the effective date of this Act.
Sec. 4. - [Monthly accounting.]
The ordinary shall diligently and faithfully collect and receive all such fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys or any other emoluments or perquisites formerly allowed as compensation for services in any capacity in his office and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public moneys and shall pay the same to Lee County as directed by the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues on or before the 10th day of each month next following the month in which they are collected or received. On or before the 10th day of each month, the ordinary shall prepare in triplicate a detailed, itemized statement under oath showing the dates, sources and amounts of funds collected by him during the previous calendar month. The original copy of said statement shall be furnished to the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Lee County; a duplicate copy of said statement shall be furnished to the treasurer of Lee County and a duplicate copy of said statement shall be retained on file as part of the records of said ordinary. The ordinary shall be diligent in making the monthly accounting as herein provided.
Sec. 5. - [County subrogated to rights and claims of emoluments or perquisites.]
The procedure now or hereafter in force as to collection and distribution of all fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys or any other emoluments or perquisites shall be followed, but as herein provided all such sums to which the ordinary would, but for this Act, be entitled, shall be collected for the use of said county, and Lee County shall be subrogated to the rights and claims of said ordinary in and to the same.
Sec. 6. - [Emoluments or perquisites accrued to sheriff.]
All fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys or any other emoluments or perquisites which have accrued to the sheriff at the time this Act becomes effective and to which said officer is entitled and which remain uncollected at the time this Act becomes effective, shall when collected be paid to said officer.
Sec. 7. - [Services, supplies and equipment provided by county.]
The Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Lee County shall provide necessary books, records, stationery, postage, telephones, furniture and other services, supplies and equipment in general for the ordinary of Lee County. Funds for payment of the services, supplies and equipment furnished as authorized by this Section, shall be payable from the funds of Lee County.
Sec. 8. - [Premiums on bonds or insurance.]
All premiums on bonds or insurance required of the ordinary in his capacity as ordinary or judge of the court of ordinary shall be paid from the funds of Lee County.
Sec. 9. - [Fiscal authorities of the county to pay sums and amounts herein provided.]
It shall be proper and lawful for the fiscal authorities of Lee County to pay out of county funds the sums and amounts herein provided and authorized.
Sec. 9A. - [Jurisdiction.]
The judge of the Probate Court of Lee County shall have jurisdiction to try certain misdemeanor cases arising in the county where the defendant waives a jury trial and pleads guilty to such misdemeanor. The jurisdiction provided under this section shall apply only to such misdemeanor violations which are not within the jurisdiction of the magistrate court pursuant to Chapter 10 of Title 15 of the O.C.G.A., or any other applicable general law.
(2002 Ga. Laws, page 4070)
Sec. 10. - [Severability.]
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases of this Act, which shall remain of full force and effect, as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional was not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly hereby declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this Act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
Sec. 11. - [Effective date.]
This Act shall become effective on the first of the month following its approval by the Governor or its otherwise becoming law.
