[ARTICLE VII. - EDUCATIONAL FUNDS]

Sec. 1. - [Remission of funds.]
(a)
The tax commissioner of Lee County shall remit all educational funds collected by said officer to the Board of Education of Lee County, except that the percentage of the funds calculated under subsection (b) of this section and collected shall be retained by the tax commissioner and remitted to the governing authority of Lee County to reimburse the county for the cost of collecting school taxes.
(b)
Commencing on the first day of the Lee County governing authority's 2003-2004 fiscal year, the percentage of the funds provided for under subsection (a) of this section shall be determined annually in accordance with this subsection. A ratio of the actual previous fiscal year expenditures of the tax commissioner's office shall be determined based upon the percentage that the ad valorem property taxes for Board of Education purposes collected for the same fiscal year is of the total ad valorem taxes collected for that fiscal year. The percentage so determined shall be used to calculate the dollar amount share of the actual previous fiscal year expenditures of the tax commissioner's office attributable to the collection of ad valorem property taxes for Board of Education purposes. The percentage needed to be charged against the total ad valorem property taxes collected for Board of Education purposes to reach the dollar amount share of the actual previous fiscal year expenditures of the tax commissioner's office attributable to the collection of ad valorem property taxes for Board of Education purposes shall be the percentage of funds to be retained and then remitted in the current fiscal year as provided in subsection (a) of this section. If the percentage so determined for any previous fiscal year exceeds the amount specified under Code Section 48-5-404 of the O.C.G.A., then the amount for that current fiscal year's collections shall be as specified in that general law.
(2003 Ga. Laws, page 3937)
Sec. 2. - [Intent; authority.]
It is the intention of this Act to reduce the amount authorized by subsection (a) of Code Section 48-5-404 of the O.C.G.A. as reimbursement to counties for the collection of school taxes, and this Act is pursuant to the specific authority of Article VIII, Section VI, Paragraph III of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(2003 Ga. Laws, page 3937)
