ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS AND REGISTRATION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1990 Ga. Laws, page 4611, which created the Lee County Board of Elections. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.
Editor's note— Act No. 92, § 20, passed March 9, 1999, repealed article II, sections 1—14 in their entirety. Sections 1—19 of Act No. 92 added a new article II, sections 1—19. Former article II derived from an act of March 28, 1990.
State Law reference— Georgia Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.; code of ethics for members of boards, commissions and authorities, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-3.

Sec. 1. - [Created.]
Pursuant to subsection (b) of Code section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A., there is created, effective July 1, 1999, the Lee County Board of Elections and Registration, hereinafter referred to as "the board." The board shall have the powers and duties of the former Lee County Board of Elections relating to the conduct of primaries and elections and shall have the powers and duties of the Lee County Board of Registrars relating to the registration of voters and absentee balloting procedures.
(Act No. 92, § 1, 4-9-99)
Sec. 2. - [Definitions.]
The terms "election, "elector," "political party," "primary," and "public office" shall have the same meaning as set forth in chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this Act; the term "commissioners" means the "Board of Commissioners of Lee County;" and "county" means "Lee County."
(Act No. 92, § 2, 4-9-99)
Sec. 3. - [Membership.]
(a)
The board shall be composed of five members, each of whom shall be an elector and a resident of the county and shall be selected in the following manner:
(1)
Two members of the board shall be appointed by the chairperson of the county executive committee of the political party whose candidate for president at the last election preceding such appointment received the largest number of votes in the county. Two members of the board shall be appointed by the chairperson of the county executive committee of the political party whose candidate for president at such election received the next largest number of votes in the county. Each appointment shall have been ratified by a majority of the members of each of such respective executive committee voting at a regularly scheduled meeting of such executive committees or a meeting duly called and held for such purpose. In the event such appointments are not ratified by a majority of the members of such executive committees at least 60 days preceding the date on which such members are to take office, then the members of the respective executive committees may appoint such members by a two-thirds' majority of the membership of such executive committees at a regularly scheduled meeting or at a meeting duly called and held for such purpose. In the event the members of said executive committees fail to appoint such members at least 30 days preceding the date on which such members are to take office, such members shall be appointed by the commissioners; and
(2)
The fifth member of the board shall be appointed by the commissioners.
(3)
The board shall select a chairperson from among its members.
(b)
The initial terms of office of the member appointed by the commissioners and one member appointed by the chairperson of the county executive committee of each political party shall expire December 31, 2002, and upon the appointment and qualification of their respective successors. The initial terms of office of the remaining members of the board shall expire December 31, 2000, and upon the appointment and qualification of their respective successors.
(Act No. 92, § 3, 4-9-99)
Sec. 4. - [Chief election official.]
The board shall appoint a person to serve as the chief election official of the county. Such position shall be full time and such person shall be paid a salary to be set by the board and payable from county funds. The chief election official shall generally direct and control the administration of elections and voter registration in the county. The chief election official shall be supervised by the board and shall be subject to removal from office by the board, with or without cause.
(Act No. 92, § 4, 4-9-99)
Sec. 5. - [Succession; resignation; removal.]
Each member of the board shall:
(1)
Serve for a term of four years and until a successor is appointed and qualified, except that initial terms of office shall be as provided in subsection (b) of section 3 of this act;
(2)
Be eligible to be reappointed to succeed such member and shall have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the commissioners and to the clerk of the superior court of the county; and
(3)
Be subject to removal from the board at any time for cause, after notice and hearing, by the judge of the superior court of the county.
(Act No. 92, § 5, 4-9-99)
Sec. 6. - [Certification.]
(a)
The appointment of each member shall be evidenced by the appointing authority filing an affidavit with the clerk of the superior court of the county no later than 30 days preceding the date on which such member is to take office, stating the name and residence address of the person appointed and certifying that such member has been duly appointed as provided in this act. The clerk of the superior court of the county shall be notified of interim appointments and shall record and certify such appointments in the same manner as the regular appointment of members.
(b)
The clerk of the superior court of the county shall record each such certification on the minutes of that superior court and shall certify the name of each member to the secretary of state and provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members as provided by law for county registrars.
(Act No. 92, § 6, 4-9-99)
Sec. 7. - [Vacancy.]
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any member, before the expiration of a term by reason of removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the appointing authority which is required under section 3 of this act to make the appointment to the office upon expiration of the term shall appoint a successor to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term in the manner set forth in section 3 of this act. If the vacancy in office under subsection (a) of section 3 of this act is not filled within 60 days after it occurs, the vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the expired term by the commissioners.
(Act No. 92, § 7, 4-9-99)
Sec. 8. - [Oath required.]
(a)
The first members of the board under this act shall be appointed as provided in this act to take office on July 1, 1999. The board shall take no official action until all members have been certified to the clerk of the superior court of the county.
(b)
Before entering upon the duties of office, each member shall take substantially the same oath as required by law for county registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
(Act No. 92, § 8, 4-9-99)
Sec. 9. - [Powers and duties.]
(a)
The board shall be empowered with all the powers and duties relating to the conduct of primaries and elections as election superintendents pursuant to the provisions of chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code."
(b)
The board is empowered with all the powers and duties relating to the registration of voters and absentee balloting procedures as boards of registrars pursuant to the provisions of chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code."
(c)
This act is intended to implement the provisions of subsection (b) of code section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A. and shall be construed liberally so as to effectuate that purpose.
(Act No. 92, § 9, 4-9-99)
Sec. 10. - [Holding other elective office prohibited.]
No person who holds elective public office shall be eligible to serve as a member of the board during the term of such elective public office, and the position of membership of any member shall be deemed vacant upon such member's qualifying as a candidate for an elective public office.
(Act No. 92, § 10, 4-9-99)
Sec. 11. - [Conflicts.]
Any rule or regulation promulgated by a county executive committee of a political party under the provisions of subsection (c) of Code Section 21-2-111 of the O.C.G.A., with regard to the conduct of primaries, shall be null and void if in conflict with a valid rule or regulation of the board.
(Act No. 92, § 11, 4-9-99)
Sec. 12. - [Conduct of elections and primaries.]
(a)
Nothing in this act shall be construed to require or prohibit joint primaries or to require or prohibit the commissioners or any other public agency to bear any expense of conducting primaries not otherwise required by law.
(b)
The board shall have the authority to conduct municipal elections and primaries for any municipal corporation located within the county if such municipal corporation has entered into a contract for that purpose with the county board of commissioners.
(Act No. 92, § 12, 4-9-99)
Sec. 13. - [Training of electors.]
With the approval of the commissioners, the board shall be authorized to expend public funds for the purpose of preparing and distributing material solely to inform and instruct electors of the county adequately with regard to elections. No material distributed by the board shall contain or express, in any manner or form, any commentary or expression of opinion or request for support with respect to any political issue or matter of political concern.
(Act No. 92, § 13, 4-9-99)
Sec. 14. - [Organization and management.]
(a)
The board shall be authorized end empowered to organize itself, may elect from among its membership a vice chairperson, shell determine its procedural rules and regulations, adopt bylaws, specify the functions and duties of its employees, and otherwise take such actions as are appropriate to the management of its affairs; provided, however, that no such action shall conflict with general law.
(b)
Action and decision by the board shall be by a majority vote of a quorum of the members of the board.
(Act No. 92, § 14, 4-9-99)
Sec. 15. - [Meetings.]
(a)
The board shall fix and establish by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction. The board shall hold meetings at the county courthouse or at the place of meeting of the commissioners. These meetings shall be held quarterly in years in which there is no county-wide election and monthly in years in which there is a county-wide election. Any specially called meetings held pursuant to the bylaws adopted by the board shall be held only after notification of the time and place of the holding of such meeting has been communicated in writing to the chief election official to provide public notice of the meeting as required by law. All meetings of whatever kind of the board shall be conducted pursuant to code sections 50-14-1, et seq. of the O.C.G.A.
(b)
The board shall maintain a written record of policy decisions that shall be amended to include additions or deletions. Such written record shall be subject to code sections 50-18-70, et seq. of the O.C.G.A.
(Act No. 92, § 15, 4-9-99)
Sec. 16. - [Chairperson; compensation.]
(a)
The chairperson of the board of elections and registration shall chair all meetings of the board and be the spokesperson for the board.
(b)
Compensation for the members of the board shall be fixed by the commissioners.
(c)
All amounts payable under this section shall be paid from the funds of the county.
(Act No. 92, § 16, 4-9-99)
Sec. 17. - [Expenditure of public funds.]
Subject to appropriation of funds by the commissioners, the board shall be authorized to expend public funds to provide for such proper and suitable administrative offices and for such clerical assistants and other employees as the board shall deem appropriate. Compensation for such administrative personnel shall be paid by the board under the county personnel system wholly from county funds. This section shall not be construed so as to require the board to expend any funds simply because they are authorized to do so under this act.
(Act No. 92, § 17, 4-9-99)
Sec. 18. - [Training of poll workers.]
The board shall be responsible for the selection, appointment, and training of poll workers in elections. Such workers shall be appointed, insofar as practicable, from lists provided by the county executive committees of any political party whose nominee for President of the United States received at least ten percent of the vote in the county during the most recent general election for that office. It shall be the responsibility of any such political party to provide said list to the board in a timely fashion and to supplement said list upon a reasonable request to do so.
(Act No. 92, § 18, 4-9-99)
Sec. 19. - [Transfer of powers and duties.]
Effective on the date the board can first take official action under section 7 of this act, the board of elections of the county and the board of registrars of the county shall be relieved from all powers and duties to which the board of elections and registration succeeds by the provisions of this act and shall deliver thereafter to the chairperson of the board, upon the chairperson's written request, the custody of all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, and facilities of every kind pertaining to such powers and duties.
(Act No. 92, § 19, 4-9-99)
