Chapter 42 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 42-1. - Being under influence of intoxicating liquors.
Any person being under the influence of intoxicating drink on the streets or at any other public place within the city shall be guilty of an offense.
(Code 1955, § 79)
State Law reference— Public drunkenness, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-12.
Sec. 42-2. - Disorderly conduct.
Any person who shall use loud, boisterous, obscene, or profane language, or who shall fight, quarrel, or make any unnecessary noise tending to disturb, or who shall be guilty of any other disturbing conduct within the corporate limits of the city shall be guilty of disorderly conduct and guilty of an offense.
(Code 1955, § 80)
State Law reference— Disorderly conduct, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.
Sec. 42-3. - Disturbing sounds.
Any person who shall make or knowingly allow others on his premises to make any noise at night calculated to disturb the peace of the city or the rest and quiet of any citizen shall be guilty of an offense.
(Code 1955, § 81)
State Law reference— Disturbance of meeting, gathering or procession, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-34.
Sec. 42-4. - Posting bills.
Any person who shall post any bills or signs on any public or private buildings in the city without the owner's consent shall be guilty of an offense.
(Code 1955, § 82)
Sec. 42-5. - Firearms.
No person shall shoot or discharge firearms, such as guns, pistols, or any other shooting instrument. This section shall not apply to members of the armed forces of the United States or the National Guard while engaged in official duties, to law enforcement officers while engaged in official duties, or to any person exercising the right of self-defense or the defense of others.
(Code 1955, § 83)
Sec. 42-6. - Interfering with public notices.
Any person who shall be guilty of marking any figure upon any official notice of the city or who shall alter, tear, or in any way interfere with any legal or other public notice such as street signs, park signs, or other official notices of the city, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Code 1955, § 84)
Sec. 42-7. - Disturbing public gathering.
It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any public gathering of people in the city at any place of worship, amusement, or other lawful gathering by any loud or boisterous talking, or by any disturbing or indecorous behavior, either within or without the building in which the assembly is being held.
(Code 1955, § 89)
State Law reference— Disturbance of meeting, gathering or procession, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-34.
Sec. 42-8. - Throwing missiles; possession or discharge of fireworks.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw rocks, stones, or any heavy missile on the streets or alleys of the city. It shall also be unlawful to shoot or use any sling-shot, flip, or any other means of casting stones calculated to injure the person or property of any citizen on the streets or public places within the city.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to have in their possession for sale or distribution with in the city limits any firecrackers, Roman candles or any other species of fireworks. It shall also be unlawful for any person to discharge any fireworks in the streets, alleys, or any other property of the city.
(Code 1955, § 90)
Sec. 42-9. - Hitchhiking.
It shall be unlawful for any person to flag, thumb, or in any other way stop or attempt to stop cars or trucks for the purpose of hitchhiking on public highway no. 15 (U.S. Highway 23), passing through the city, within 100 yards of the intersection of Georgia Street.
(Code 1955, § 91)
Sec. 42-10. - Curfew for minors.
It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to loiter, idle, congregate or be in any public street, highway, alley, park or other public place between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. However, the provisions of this section do not apply to a minor:
(1)
Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian or an adult designated by the minor's parent or guardian.
(2)
On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian or an adult designated by the minor's parent or guardian, without any detour or stop;
(3)
In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
(4)
Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
(5)
Involved in an emergency. In this subsection, the term "emergency" means an unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, or automobile accident, or any situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life;
(6)
Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the township, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the township, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor;
(7)
Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the right of assembly; or
(8)
Who are married or have been married or have had disabilities of minority removed in accordance with law.
(Code 1955, § 91)
Sec. 42-11. - Creating a hazardous condition.
It shall be unlawful for any person to create a hazardous or physically offensive condition by an act that serves no legitimate purpose.
(Ord. No. 2014-01, § 1, 4-1-2014)
