Chapter 58 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 42; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 74.
State Law reference— State parks, O.C.G.A. § 12-3-1 et seq.; authority of municipality to construct and operate parks, swimming pools, golf courses, recreation grounds and buildings used for sports, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; establishment of recreation systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.; recreation boards, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-5; Georgia State Games Commission, O.C.G.A. § 50-12-40 et seq.; power to provide parks, recreation areas, programs and facilities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(5).

Sec. 58-1. - Disorderly conduct.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any of the following conduct on any city recreational property:
(1)
Acts of a violent or tumultuous nature toward another person whereby such person is placed in reasonable fear of the safety of such person's life, limb or health;
(2)
Acts of a violent or tumultuous nature whereby the property of another person or of the city is damaged or destroyed, or is placed in danger of being damaged or destroyed;
(3)
Use, in the presence of another person, of opprobrious or abusive words, which by their very utterance tend to incite to an immediate breach of the peace, which are words which as a matter of common knowledge and under ordinary circumstances will, when used to or of another person in such other person's presence, naturally tend to provoke violent resentment; or
(4)
Use of obscene, vulgar or profane language in the presence of another person which threatens an immediate breach of the peace.
(b)
The director of the recreation department shall have the power to prohibit any person engaging in any of the conduct prohibited by subsection (a) of this section from using or having access in any way to the recreational property of the city for a period of time not exceeding one year from the date of the offense.
(Ord. of 8-19-1996, § I)
Sec. 58-2. - Hearing.
Any person prohibited by the director of the recreation department from using the recreational property of the city shall have the right, within ten days following such suspension, to appeal such decision to the recreation commission of the city. The recreation commission shall hear such appeal within two weeks following the filing of such appeal. If the recreation commission upholds the decision of the director of recreation, such person, within ten days following the decision of the recreation commission, may appeal such decision to the aldermanic board.
(Ord. of 8-19-1996, § I)
Sec. 58-3. - Recreational property.
The recreational property of the city shall consist of the public facilities located at the intersection of South Rogers Street and Packer Drive within the city, as well as such other parks and public areas under the jurisdiction of the recreation commission.
(Ord. of 8-19-1996, § I)
