Chapter 63 - PROCUREMENT

Sec. 63-1. - Emergency procurement.
Notwithstanding any other section of this chapter, when the mayor determines that an emergency exists, such person may make or authorize others to make emergency procurements for supplies or contractual services in compliance with FEMA regulations. The mayor of the city shall make such determination when there exists a threat to public health, welfare or safety under emergency conditions. Such emergency procurements shall be made with as much competition as is practicable under the circumstances. A written determination of the basis for the emergency and for the selection of the particular contractor shall be included in the contract file by the city. As soon as practicable, the city shall make a record of each emergency procurement, shall set forth the basis for the emergency, the selection of the particular contractor, the contractor's name, the amount and type of the contract, a listing of the supplies or services procured under the contract, and submit a written report with such information to the clerk of the council. The mayor is authorized under this article to amend any contract/procedure to ensure compliance with any applicable federal or state regulations.
Any such action taken by the mayor under this article shall be ratified by the city council within 30 days.
The mayor is authorized to establish procedures or regulations to ensure all actions pursuant to this article are in compliance with all applicable federal or state regulations or laws. ( Ord. of 10-17-2016(1) , ยง I; Ord. of 10-24-2016(2) , ยง I)
Sec. 63-2. - Officers not to be interested in contracts.
It shall be unlawful for the mayor, any councilmember, or any officer of the mayor and councilmembers or any person holding any appointment under the mayor and councilmembers, with any salary annexed thereto, to be concerned, directly or indirectly, in any contract with the mayor and councilmembers, or its agents or officers or in any contract or engagement of a pecuniary character in which the city is either directly or indirectly concerned. Any person violating this section may be dismissed from office by the mayor and councilmembers, in addition to any other penalty provided in this Code.
( Ord. of 10-24-2016(1) )
