ARTICLE VII. - WETLANDS PROTECTION[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq.

Sec. 42-241. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Jurisdictional wetland means an area that meets the requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Jurisdictional wetland determination means an official written statement or map signed by the authorized official of U.S. Army Corps of Engineers which states whether or not jurisdictional wetlands are present on a site.
Wetland delineation means a delineation of jurisdictional wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by section 404 of the Clean Water Act, 33 USC 1344, as amended.
Wetlands inventory area means wetlands identified on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency West Chatham County ADID Map of Wetlands and Uplands (ADID map), where available, and, as from time to time amended, or, for property outside the study area defined on the ADID map, wetlands identified on the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory (NWI) Map for Chatham County, Georgia, and, as from time to time amended. A wetlands inventory area does not necessarily represent jurisdictional wetlands and cannot serve as a substitute for a jurisdictional wetland determination or a wetland delineation.
(Ord. of 2-7-2000, § I)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 42-242. - Administration and enforcement.
modified
(a)
When assessment required. This section is intended to provide applicants for a building permit or a demolition permit with notices when the proposed activity may require a department of the army permit due to impact upon jurisdictional wetlands. The provision in subsection (b) of this section shall not apply if the applicant can provide to the building official a valid U.S. Army Corps of Engineers wetland delineation that verifies that the proposed activity is not located within a jurisdictional wetlands, or if the applicant can provide a valid U.S. Army Corps of Engineers permit or letter that authorizes the proposed activity within jurisdictional wetlands. If such evidence of compliance with U.S. Army Corps of Engineers permitting requirements is provided, the building official shall follow normal procedures for issuing a building permit or a demolition permit.
(b)
Assessment. Prior to the issuance of a building permit or a demolition permit, the building official shall assess whether the proposed activity is of the type that could result in a disturbance of wetlands and, if so, shall also assess whether the proposed activity is located within a wetland inventory area or within 100 feet of a wetland inventory area. To assess whether the proposed activity is located within a wetland inventory area or within 100 feet of a wetland inventory area, the building official shall consult the then current U.S. Environmental Protection Agency West Chatham County ADID Map of Wetlands and Uplands. If the proposed activity is not located within the study area defined on the ADID map, the building official shall consult the then current U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory (NWI) Map for the county.
(1)
If the building official determines that the proposed activity is of a type that is not likely to result in a disturbance of wetlands or that it does not fall within 100 feet of a wetland inventory area, the building official shall follow normal procedures for issuing a building or demolition permit.
(2)
If the building official determines that the proposed activity is of a type that is likely to result in a disturbance of wetlands and the proposed activity is located within a wetland inventory area or within 100 feet of a wetland inventory area, a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers jurisdictional wetland determination shall be required prior to issuance of a building or demolition permit.
a.
If the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determines that a department of the army permit is required, a building permit or a demolition permit shall be issued only following issuance of the U.S. Department of the Army permit.
b.
If the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determines that the proposed activity would not require a U.S. Department of the Army permit, the building official shall proceed with normal procedures for issuing a building or demolition permit.
(c)
Effect of assessment. Wetland inventory areas do not necessarily represent jurisdictional wetlands within the county and cannot serve as a substitute for a jurisdictional wetland determination or a wetlands delineation. No permit issued by the city relieves a landowner from federal or state permitting requirements.
(Ord. of 2-7-2000, § I)
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Secs. 42-243—42-270. - Reserved.
