Chapter 102 - VEHICLES FOR HIRE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— City's power relating to vehicles for hire, § 1.13(30).
Cross reference— Businesses and business regulations, ch. 22; railroads, ch. 70; streets and sidewalks, ch. 82; traffic and vehicles, ch. 90.
State Law reference— Reciprocal agreements as to operation of vehicles registered in other states inapplicable to motor vehicles for hire, O.C.G.A. § 40-2-95.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 102-1—102-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WRECKER AND TOWING SERVICES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2016-39, § 1, amended former Art. II, §§ 102-31—102-45, in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former Art. II pertained to wreckers and derived from the Code of 1983, §§ 22-21—22-24, 22-26—22-36.

Sec. 102-31. - Determination of service providers.
(a)
The Acworth Police Department shall from time to time after a request for qualifications, prepare an approved list of one or more companies to tow private and public vehicles as requested by the Acworth Police Department and the City of Acworth.
(b)
The method of determining the list of acceptable companies for towing services will be determined by review of the company's response to a request for qualifications. The chief of police will determine which companies best meet the stated qualifications. The chief will recommend not less than two and nor more than three companies to be placed on an approved list for service provision with the city. The city reserves the right to award service in the best interest of the city and to accept or reject any and all RFQ's and to waive technicalities and informalities in the responses as well as limiting the number of companies on the rotation.
(c)
The chief of police will review all proposals submitted when a request for qualifications for towing has been advertised. The chief shall determine which companies meet the city's requirements. The chief shall then meet with those companies to settle on an acceptable fee schedule that all companies shall charge. The chief shall then recommend to the mayor and board of aldermen which companies shall provide towing services for the city and the rates for said services. Said rates shall not be adjusted unless approved by the mayor and board of aldermen.
(d)
The business owner or license holder shall not have the authority to transfer the assignment of the towing privileges for the city in any manner whatsoever, or sell, lease, license or permit others to use the privilege.
(Ord. No. 2016-39, § 1, 11-3-2016)
Sec. 102-32. - Indemnity.
All wrecker companies under agreement with the City of Acworth shall indemnify and defend the city, its governing authority (mayor and city council members), officers, agents and employees, against any and all costs, losses, expenses, damages and liabilities, including attorney's fees, for injury to or death of any person or damage to property caused by the wrecker company, its officers, agents, or employees, arising out of the fulfillment of the obligations of the company under the agreement with the city.
(Ord. No. 2016-39, § 1, 11-3-2016)
Sec. 102-33. - Liability insurance.
(a)
At all times during term of service to the city the wrecker company shall, at its own expense, maintain in full force and effect general comprehensive liability insurance and garage keeper's liability insurance with an insurance company authorized to operate in the State of Georgia, the policies to be in form satisfactory to the city attorney.
(b)
The coverage represented by such policies shall be for the protection and indemnification of the city, members of the mayor and city council, and its officers, agents, and employees against liability for loss or damages for bodily injury, death, and property damage occasioned by the activities of the wrecker company arising out of the fulfillment of the obligations of the company while providing services to the City of Acworth, and all costs and liabilities. The policy will name the City of Acworth as an additional insured. Minimum liability limits under the general comprehensive liability policy shall be $100,000.00 to $500,000.00 liability limits for personal injury or death of any persons, in any one occurrence, and $50,000.00 for damage to property resulting from any one occurrence, and minimum $100,000.00 garage keeper's liability.
(c)
The wrecker company will provide proof of insurance annually. The city must be notified immediately if the insurance is transferred to a different carrier or is cancelled.
(Ord. No. 2016-39, § 1, 11-3-2016)
Sec. 102-34. - Enforcement of additional regulations.
The city reserves the right to enforce such additional rules and regulations as may be deemed necessary to protect the interest, safety and welfare of the public in relation to the subject matter of this ordinance, provided that any such rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 2016-39, § 1, 11-3-2016)
Sec. 102-35. - Removal of wrecked or illegally parked vehicles from public streets, highways, right of ways and publicly owned parking areas.
A vehicle which has been wrecked or illegally parked may be removed by the city and/or the City of Acworth Police Department from public streets, highways, right of ways, and publicly owned parking areas under any one of the following conditions:
(1)
The vehicle is obstructing traffic;
(2)
The vehicle is blocking a private entrance;
(3)
The vehicle is blocking a fire hydrant;
(4)
The vehicle has been reported stolen or taken without the consent of the owner;
(5)
The vehicle has no registration plate;
(6)
The vehicle has been left unattended as defined by O.C.G.A. 40-11-3;
(7)
The driver of the vehicle is incapacitated by injury or illness;
(8)
The driver fails to produce proof of minimum insurance and the officer confirms that the vehicle is uninsured;
(9)
The driver is arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol and no other person is available and/or capable of driving the vehicle;
(10)
The driver has accumulated five or more parking citations which have not been paid (subsection 90-45(4));
(11)
Any condition which, in the judgment of the investigating officer; presents a traffic hazard or a threat to the public safety; and
(12)
Any condition otherwise authorized by state law or set forth in other sections of the City of Acworth Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. 2016-39, § 1, 11-3-2016)
Sec. 102-36. - Duty to use due care; clearing of glass and debris.
(a)
Wrecker services shall determine the method and manner of removing vehicles; however, they shall exercise due care in removal operations and shall follow the direction of the traffic officer directing the removal so as not to impede traffic or endanger the general public and property.
(b)
The driver of each wrecker truck towing away any vehicle from the scene of a wreck shall also take away all parts belonging to the vehicle which he is towing away; or, if they consist of small parts or broken glass, he shall clear the right-of-way of such small parts and glass, unless the driver is ordered not to do so by the investigating police officer due to circumstances at the scene of the accident.
(Ord. No. 2016-39, § 1, 11-3-2016)
Sec. 102-37. - Service and equipment standards.
(a)
The wrecker company shall have available 24 hours per day, seven days per week, 52 weeks per year, equipment suitable for the accomplishment of the towing of vehicles and properties suitable for the safe and secure fenced storage of vehicles and personnel qualified to accomplish the towing and storage services. The wrecker company should be capable of responding to all calls for service made by the Acworth Police Department within 20 minutes on at least 90 percent of the calls.
(b)
The wrecker service (towing, transportation, and/or storage) shall be conducted in such manner as to provide the city with immediate service so as to tow, transport, and store vehicles ordered to be towed, transported, and/or stored by the police department in a safe and secure impoundment area. Such impoundment area shall be fully enclosed by a fence not less than six feet high with a gate which will be kept securely fastened and locked. The impound lot must be lighted and shall contain recorded surveillance cameras that will provide 100 percent coverage of the area.
(c)
The wrecker company must maintain a valid business license and meet all applicable state requirements to legally operate in the State of Georgia.
(d)
Each vehicle must be maintained in accordance with requirements of state law and in a clean and safe condition at all times.
(e)
The Acworth Police Department reserves the right to request service from an available wrecker company not on the approved list that has access to equipment or personnel to meet the need or response requirements for a given situation or incident.
(Ord. No. 2016-39, § 1, 11-3-2016)
Sec. 102-38. - Drivers/employees.
(a)
Each wrecker driver employed by the wrecker company shall hold and maintain in effect during the term of his employment, a valid driver's license of appropriate class issued by the state, permitting the driver to operate the towing vehicles necessary to accomplish the services contemplated in this article. The city requires that the wrecker company perform annual background checks on all employees and provide proof of such upon request.
(b)
Owners and principals shall be examined for a ten-year period, and employees shall be examined for a five-year period. A conviction, plea of guilty or entry of a nolo contendere plea of any of the following may result in a denial or revocation of towing privileges for the city:
(1)
Any felony crime.
(2)
A pattern of misdemeanor crimes.
(3)
Any suspension or revocation of driving privileges, other than administrative suspensions.
(4)
Any serious traffic offense as follows:
a.
Reckless driving as defined in O.C.G.A. § 40-6-390.
b.
More than one driving under the influence as defined in O.C.G.A. § 40-6-391.
c.
Homicide by vehicle as defined in O.C.G.A. § 40-6-393.
d.
Serious injury by vehicle as defined in O.C.G.A. § 40-6-394.
e.
Fleeing, eluding or impersonating a law enforcement officer as defined in O.C.G.A. § 40-6-395.
(Ord. No. 2016-39, § 1, 11-3-2016)
Sec. 102-39. - Compensation for services.
(a)
The wrecker company shall be responsible for the collection of all charges, fees, and rates charged for any of the services contemplated under the provisions of the arrangement with the city directly from the person who owned or had legal possession of the vehicle towed or stored. At no time shall the city be responsible to the wrecker company for any charges for towing or storage unless such charges are approved by the Chief of Police or designee.
(b)
The wrecker company shall post towing rates and storage fees reflecting the prices to be charged to the public. Rates shall be posted in open view to the public in the wrecker company's lobby.
(c)
In addition to towing, the company shall deliver to each owner or representative of every towed vehicle a price sheet reflecting the prices to be charged by the towing company and the location of where the vehicle has been towed to and stored.
(Ord. No. 2016-39, § 1, 11-3-2016)
Sec. 102-40. - Redemption of impounded vehicles.
Pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1 et seq., as amended, the owner of any vehicle seized may redeem the vehicle at any time after its removal but prior to the sale and destruction thereof upon proof of ownership and payment of the towing and storage charges.
(Ord. No. 2016-39, § 1, 11-3-2016)
Sec. 102-41. - Non-compliance.
The chief of police shall be authorized to suspend or revoke the towing privileges granted herein for noncompliance of the provisions of this chapter. in the event the chief of police seeks to suspend or to revoke the towing privilege, the chief of police shall give written notification to the towing company of such action and such notice shall contain a specification of the violation or violations.
(Ord. No. 2016-39, § 1, 11-3-2016)
Secs. 102-42—102-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TAXICABS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 102-81. - Compliance with article; application of other provisions.
It is unlawful for any person to drive, use or operate on the streets of the city any taxicab, automobile, bus or other motor vehicle engaged in the business of conveying and transporting passengers for hire unless that person has complied and continues to comply with the regulations, restrictions, rules and conditions set forth in this article; and further, it is expressly provided that it is not the intention of the city to establish and fix rules, regulations, restrictions or conditions upon the compliance with which the city will grant an occupation tax certificate to operate a taxicab business, but that the provisions of this Code governing taxes shall apply to the granting or denying of such an occupation tax certificate; and it is expressly provided that the city in all such cases, or such applications, retains the right, within its discretion to grant or refuse any application for any such occupation tax certificate or permit for the privilege of engaging in the taxicab business.
(Ord. No. 97-017, § 1, 10-13-1997)
Sec. 102-82. - Liability insurance.
It is unlawful for any person granted an occupation tax certificate to operate a taxicab business in the city, to drive, use or operate on the streets of the city any taxicab, bus, automobile or any other motor vehicle for the carrying of passengers for hire unless the automobile, taxicab, bus or other motor vehicle is either:
(1)
Insured against liability for any injury to persons or property that may be caused by the operation or running of such vehicles, in the sums of $25,000.00 for the death or injury to any one person and $50,000.00 for the death or injury to more than one person resulting from any one accident, and $10,000.00 for damage to personal property, including baggage. Should state law which requires motor vehicle liability minimum insurance coverage as evidence of security for bodily injury and property damage liability (O.C.G.A. § 40-9-1 et seq., the Motor Vehicle Safety Responsibility Act) be changed to require greater minimums in any category of liability listed in this subsection, the minimum amounts listed in this subsection shall be automatically amended to require such amounts upon the effective date such legislation with no additional notice to the public and no formal action required by the mayor and board of aldermen. Additionally, should there be enacted at any time laws affecting requirements of vehicles for hire particularly, this article will automatically incorporate such requirements with no additional notice to the public and no formal action required by the mayor and board. Surplus line insurance and direct purchase insurance is not acceptable insurance for coverage of city taxicabs and city vehicles for hire. Liability insurance shall be carried by some reputable and solvent insurance company authorized by the laws of the state to do business in this state; and a copy of the policy shall be filed with the business license manager, together with a receipted premium for the insurer, or its duly authorized agent, showing payment of the premium on the policy for and during a period covered by the life of the insured person's occupation tax certificate to engage in the taxicab business; the insurance policy must provide and stipulate that the insurer will give notice to the city of at least 30 days before its termination or cancellation, for any reason, of the policy on the person insured; or
(2)
Furnishes evidence of a current certificate of self-insurance as issued by the state department of revenue in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 40-9-101(a)2, to be filed with the business license manager.
(Ord. No. 97-017, § 2, 10-13-1997; Ord. No. 2012-08, § 1, 5-3-2012)
Sec. 102-83. - Application for occupation tax certificate to contain certain information.
Each person who is required to have a taxicab occupation tax certificate to operate or engage in the taxicab business, in filling out his application for an occupation tax certificate or permit as the case may be, shall be required to set forth the facts as are disclosed by registration forms for state automobile licenses, together with the other pertinent facts as the official form for the occupation tax certificate may require.
(Ord. No. 97-017, § 8, 10-13-1997)
Sec. 102-84. - Display of permit number and authority of business license manager to issue permit number.
It is unlawful for any person to operate or carry on a taxicab business within the city without first having painted on the rear and both sides of each taxicab, as described in the application for an occupation tax certificate to operate such taxicab business, in legible letters not less than four inches in height, the permit number assigned to such person by the business license manager, who is hereby authorized to issue the permit numbers only after an occupation tax certificate to operate or engage in a taxicab business has been first granted under lawful authority or approved by the board of aldermen.
(Ord. No. 97-017, § 9, 10-13-1997)
Sec. 102-85. - Display of owner's name.
No person shall operate a taxicab over and upon the streets of the city unless that person shall have first painted the name of the legal owner, corresponding with the name as is in the application for the occupation tax certificate to operate or engage in the taxicab business, on either side or the rear of each vehicle operated as a taxicab.
(Ord. No. 97-017, § 10, 10-13-1997)
Sec. 102-86. - Place of operation.
No person to whom an occupation tax certificate to operate or engage in a taxicab business has been granted by lawful authority or in the discretion of the mayor and board of aldermen shall operate or carry on the business from any place except the established place of business referred to and described in the application for an occupation tax certificate to operate or engage in the taxicab business. The taxicab business shall be located only in the C-1 zoning category for the city and shall contain sufficient parking for the number of taxicabs used by the business in the operation of its business. The board of aldermen shall have the right to add additional stipulations to the business location dealing with parking, landscaping, buffers and other appropriate zoning issues.
(Ord. No. 97-017, § 11, 10-13-1997)
Sec. 102-87. - Posting of price schedule.
No person to whom an occupation tax certificate to operate or engage in a taxicab business has been granted, by lawful authority or in the discretion of the mayor and board of aldermen, shall operate or carry on a taxicab business unless he at all times, carries and maintains within the vehicle, a card or poster plainly marked and conspicuously posted stating the maximum price per trip per passenger, together with all charges for hire.
(Ord. No. 97-017, § 12, 10-13-1997)
Sec. 102-88. - Maintenance and inspection of vehicle.
Each person operating or engaging in the taxicab business shall maintain each vehicle thus operated in a good, safe and serviceable mechanical condition. Such condition shall be evidenced by a certificate executed by either a dealership doing business in the state authorized by the manufacturer to sell, as new, the make of the subject vehicle, or by a mechanic holding a current occupation tax certificate and who has been a mechanic for a minimum of five years. The certificate on a standard form provided by the city shall state that the subject vehicle is in a good, safe and serviceable condition after a careful examination and inspection has been made. The certificate shall be delivered to the police department, and the subject vehicle shall then be inspected by the police department to determine its compliance with this article. Upon the delivery of the certificate and if upon inspection of the vehicle by the police department, the vehicle is found to be in compliance with this article, a decal shall be affixed to the exterior of the vehicle in order to indicate such vehicle's compliance with this section. Such decal shall be valid for a period of not more than six months and until the end of the calendar half year for which such decal was issued, except that any vehicles placed in service during the last half of any calendar half year may obtain a decal that shall not expire until the end of the following calendar half year. No vehicle shall be operated in the city without a current and valid decal issued pursuant to this section.
(Ord. No. 97-017, § 13, 10-13-1997)
Sec. 102-89. - Owner's compliance with article.
It is unlawful for any owner of any taxicab or taxicab business to authorize or knowingly allow another person to drive, use or operate on the streets of the city any taxicab, automobile, bus or other motor vehicle engaged in the business of conveying and transporting passengers for hire, unless that person shall have complied and continued to comply with the regulations, restrictions, rules and conditions set forth in this article and unless the vehicle being so operated complies with the regulations, restrictions, rules and conditions set forth in this article.
(Ord. No. 97-017, § 15, 10-13-1997)
Secs. 102-90—102-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DRIVER'S PERMIT

Sec. 102-111. - Required; authority to issue.
It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate, either for that person or for some other person, any taxicab or vehicle carrying or transporting persons for hire in the city unless the person has made application to and secured a permit from the chief of police; and the chief of police is authorized to issue the permit.
(Ord. No. 97-017, § 3, 10-13-1997)
Sec. 102-112. - Application.
Each application for a driver's permit as required by section 102-111 shall contain the applicant's name, address, driving experience, color, age, state class C license number, whether the applicant has ever been convicted of any traffic law and if so, when and where, and his signature. Such application shall contain such additional information as may be required by the chief of police. Any information set forth in such application that was false at the time such application was signed by the applicant shall constitute a basis for revocation of the applicant's driver's permit.
(Ord. No. 97-017, § 4, 10-13-1997)
Sec. 102-113. - Permit fees.
Application for a driver's permit as required by this article shall be accompanied by a fee, as fixed by the mayor and board of aldermen and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file with the office of the city clerk, to cover the cost of handling and servicing the application. The application shall be renewed on January 1 in each year by the chief of police and for each renewal a sum, as fixed by the mayor and board of aldermen as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file with the office of the city clerk, shall be paid.
(Ord. No. 97-017, § 5, 10-13-1997; Ord. No. 2022-16 , § 1, 6-16-2022)
Sec. 102-114. - Qualifications and investigation of applicant; refusal to issue.
No person shall be qualified to receive a driver's permit as required by section 102-111 unless he has attained the age of 18 years and has been issued a class C license by the state. No person shall be qualified to receive a permit whose regular driver's license to drive a motor vehicle has at any time been revoked within six months by the city or the state. It shall be the duty of the chief of police to make an investigation to determine the moral character and fitness of the applicant and the knowledge of the applicant of the provisions of this article and ordinances pertaining to the traffic regulations of the city. Should it appear that the applicant is qualified, the chief of police shall issue a driver's permit to the applicant, signed by the chief of police. Should the applicant appear not to be qualified and the chief of police refuses to issue a driver's permit to the applicant, the applicant shall have the right to appeal to the mayor and board of aldermen; and the decision of the mayor and board of aldermen shall be final.
(Ord. No. 97-017, § 6, 10-13-1997)
Sec. 102-115. - Revocation by chief of police; appeal.
Should the holder of a driver's permit, as required by this article, be convicted of the violation of any traffic laws while operating a taxicab, or should the holder of a driver's permit be convicted of the violation of any provision of this article, the chief of police shall suspend the permit for a period of ten days, and the board of aldermen, after affording the holder of the permit notice of the charges and an opportunity to be heard, may revoke the permit. In addition, should the holder of a driver's permit violate any provision of this article, the board of aldermen, after affording the holder of the permit notice of the charges and an opportunity to be heard, may revoke the permit.
(Ord. No. 97-017, § 7, 10-13-1997)
Sec. 102-116. - Felony conviction; issuance of taxi permit.
No taxicab driver permit shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of a felony within five years of the date of the application for the permit.
(Ord. No. 97-017, § 14, 10-13-1997)
