Chapter 106 - WATER AND SEWERS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 106-1. - County water and wastewater systems code adopted.
The city adopts the county water and wastewater systems code, Utilities, chapter 122, article II of the Cobb County Code of Ordinances. A copy of such code shall be on file in the office of the city clerk.
Secs. 106-2—106-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OUTDOOR LANDSCAPE WATERING[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2010-29, § 1, adopted Dec. 2, 2010, amended the Code by adding provisions numbered as §§ 106-2—106-5. In order to group provisions relating to the same subject matter together the editor has renumbered the provisions of Ord. No. 2010-29 as herein set out. Provisions of Ord. No. 2010-29 pertaining to repeal of conflicting ordinances and effective date have not be set out in this article.

Sec. 106-31. - Restrictions on outdoor landscape watering.
Outdoor watering for purposes of planting, growing, managing, or maintaining ground cover, trees, shrubs, or other plants may occur only between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.; provided, however, that this limitation shall not create any limitation upon the following outdoor water uses:
(1)
Commercial raising, harvesting, or storing of crops; feed, breeding, or managing livestock or poultry; the commercial production or storing of feed for use in the production of livestock, including, but not limited to, cattle, calves, swine, hogs, goats, sheep, and rabbits, or for use in the production of poultry, including, but not limited to, chickens, hens, ratites, and turkeys; producing plants, trees, fowl, or animals; or the commercial production of aqua cultural, horticultural, dairy, livestock, poultry, eggs, and apiarian products or as otherwise defined in O.C.G.A § 1-3-3;
(2)
Capture and reuse of cooling system condensate or storm water in compliance with applicable ordinances or state guidelines;
(3)
Reuse of gray water in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.2 and applicable local board of health regulations;
(4)
Use of reclaimed waste water by a designated user from a system permitted by the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources to provide reclaimed waste water;
(5)
Watering personal food gardens;
(6)
Watering new and replanted plant, seed, or turf in landscapes, golf courses, or sports turf fields during installation and for a period of 30 days immediately following the date of installation;
(7)
Drip irrigation or irrigation using soaker hoses;
(8)
Hand watering with a hose with automatic cutoff or handheld container;
(9)
Use of water withdrawn from private water wells or surface water by an owner or operator of property if such well or surface water is on said property;
(10)
Watering horticultural crops held for sale, resale, or installation
(11)
Watering athletic fields, golf courses, or public turf grass recreational areas;
(12)
Installation, maintenance, or calibration of irrigation systems; or
(13)
Hydroseeding.
(Ord. No. 2010-29, § 1, 12-2-10)
Sec. 106-32. - Enforcement.
(a)
No person shall use or allow the use of water in violation of the restrictions on outdoor water use contained in this article
(b)
The City of Acworth Community Development and Police Department shall be the enforcement authority for this ordinance. The City Manager may also authorize other departments as may be deemed necessary to support enforcement.
(c)
Criminal and alternative penalties. Any violation of this section may also be enforced by a citation or accusation returnable to the municipal court or by any other legal means as set forth in this Code.
(Ord. No. 2010-29, § 1, 12-2-10)
