Chapter 26 - CABLE COMMUNICATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses and business regulations, ch. 22; streets and sidewalks, ch. 82; utilities, ch. 94.
State Law reference— Municipalities prohibited from granting franchise for cable television within unincorporated area of county, O.C.G.A. § 36-18-3; avoiding or attempting to avoid charges for use of cable television service, O.C.G.A. § 46-5-2.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - Rate regulations.
(a)
The city will follow the FCC rate regulations and its regulation of the basic service rates and charges of the company and any other cable television system operating in the city, notwithstanding any different or inconsistent provisions in the franchise.
(b)
In connection with such regulation, the city will ensure a reasonable opportunity for consideration of the views of interested parties.
(c)
The city manager or his designee is authorized to execute on behalf of the city and file with the FCC such certification forms or other instruments as are required by the FCC rate regulations in order to enable the city to regulate basic service rates and charges.
(Ord. No. 94-005, §§ 1—3, 3-3-1994)
Sec. 26-2. - Cable and video providers franchise fee.
The mayor and board of the City of Acworth hereby requires a franchise fee of five percent for any cable or video state franchise issued in its corporate boundaries by the State of Georgia pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-76-1 et seq. known as the "Consumer Choice for Television Act" of 2007.
(Res. No. 2008-01, 1-17-2008)
Secs. 26-3—26-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TELECOMMUNICATION FRANCHISES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 26-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Annual gross revenue is the same as gross receipts.
Cable services means "cable services" as defined in the Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984 and the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, and as may be further amended (the "Cable Act"). If "cable services" is no longer defined in the Cable Act or the definition in the Cable Act otherwise becomes inapplicable, "cable services" shall mean "cable services" as defined in the Cable Act immediately prior to such term's no longer being defined in the Cable Act or such definition's otherwise becoming inapplicable.
Cable system means any cable system as defined in the Cable Act.
Franchise means an initial authorization or renewal issued by the city, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit, license, resolution, contract, certificate, agreement or otherwise, which authorizes the occupation and use of the streets to provide telecommunications services.
Grantee means the legal entity to which is granted the right, authority and responsibility to construct, install, operate and maintain a system of equipment as necessary to furnish, supply and distribute cable or telecommunications services, or both, to inhabitants within the franchise area.
Streets means the surface of, as well as the spaces above and below, any and all streets, alleyways, avenues, highways, boulevards, driveways, bridges, tunnels, parks, parkways, public grounds or waters, and other public rights-of-way within or belonging to the city.
Telecommunications services means the receipt and/or distribution, through any means, including, without limitation, coaxial cable, optical fiber, or satellite or microwave transmission of one or more audio, voice or data signals. The term "telecommunications services" includes both cable services and noncable telecommunications services.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 1.1, 5-20-1999)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 26-32. - Delegation.
Consistent with applicable law, the board of aldermen shall have the right to delegate and redelegate, and to revoke any such delegation or redelegation, from time to time, any of its rights or obligations under this article to any body, organization or official. Any such delegation, redelegation or revocation, no matter how often made, shall not be deemed an amendment to this article or to require the consent of any applicant for a franchise or franchisee. The board of aldermen may also establish and appoint one or more advisory boards, with such duration and such number of members as the board of aldermen shall determine, to advise it on such of the matters which are the subject of this article.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 3.2, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-33. - State department of transportation.
Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to make any provision or requirement in this article more stringent or restrictive than the equivalent regulations promulgated by the state department of transportation concerning utilities on the state highway system.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 3.7, 5-20-1999)
Secs. 26-34—26-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - FRANCHISING PROCEDURE

Sec. 26-51. - Franchise required.
No person shall provide cable services or operate a cable system without a franchise granted in accordance with the provisions of this article. No person shall use or occupy the streets to provide any telecommunications service other than cable services without a franchise granted in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 2.1.01, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-52. - Granting authority.
(a)
The board of aldermen may grant one or more franchises in accordance with this article, provided that the board of aldermen reserves the right to modify any provision of this article by amendment.
(b)
The grant of any franchise shall be made by adoption of a separate ordinance by the board of aldermen and shall be on such terms and conditions as may be specified in such separate ordinance and/or a franchise agreement between the city and the franchisee.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, §§ 2.1.02, 2.1.03, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-53. - Exclusivity.
Any franchise granted shall be nonexclusive. The city specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, such additional franchises as it deems appropriate and/or itself engage in the provision of telecommunications services.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 2.1.04, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-54. - Scope of grant.
A franchise may be granted for all or any defined portion of the city and for all or less than all telecommunications services, and for telecommunications services for all or less than all purposes.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 2.1.05, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-55. - Subject to applicable law.
The grant of franchises by the city shall be subject to the provisions of applicable law, such as the provisions in the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, governing cable television franchises and renewals.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 2.1.06, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-56. - Franchise applications.
(a)
Applications for franchises required by this division shall be submitted in such form and be issued on such terms and conditions as the board of aldermen may determine, subject to applicable law.
(b)
Any application for a franchise shall contain and/or require the following information with respect to the proposed franchise and such other information as the board of aldermen shall deem necessary or appropriate:
(1)
The applicant's name, address, telephone number, and federal employer identification number or social security number; copy of the applicant's corporate charter or partnership agreement as applicable; and any trade names (and registrations) used by the applicant;
(2)
A detailed statement of the corporation or business entity organization of the applicant, including but not limited to the following, and to whatever extent required by the city:
a.
The names and the residence and business addresses of all officers and directors of the applicant;
b.
The names, residence and business addresses of all persons and entities having any share of the ownership of the applicant and the respective ownership share of each person or entity;
c.
The names and address of any parent or subsidiary of the applicant, namely, any other business entity owning or controlling the applicant in whole or in part or owned or controlled in whole or in part by the applicant, and a statement describing the nature of any such parent or subsidiary business entity, including but not limited to, telecommunications or cable systems owned or controlled by the applicant, its parent and subsidiary, and the areas served by such systems;
d.
A statement identifying, by place and data, any other cable system or telecommunication franchise awarded to the applicant, its parent or subsidiary; the status of such franchise with respect to its completion; the total cost of completion of such franchised cable or telecommunication system; and the amount of the applicant's and its parent's or subsidiary's resources committed to its completion;
(3)
A detailed description of the proposed plan of operation of the applicant, which shall include but is not limited to the following:
a.
A description of the cable services and any other telecommunications services proposed to be provided;
b.
A detailed map indicating all areas proposed to be served, and a proposed time schedule for the installation of all equipment necessary to become operational throughout the entire area to be serviced;
c.
A statement or schedule setting forth all proposed classifications or rates and charges to be made against subscribers and all rates and charges as to each of such classifications, including installation charges, cable service charges, and any other telecommunications service charges;
d.
A detailed, informative and referenced statement describing the actual equipment and operational standards proposed by the applicant;
e.
A copy of the form of any agreement, undertaking or other instrument proposed to be entered into between the applicant and any subscriber to cable or telecommunications services; and
f.
A detailed statement setting forth in its entirety any and all agreements and undertakings, whether formal or informal, written, oral or implied, existing or proposed to exist between the applicant and any person who materially relates or pertains to or depends upon the application and the granting of the franchise;
(4)
A copy of any agreement covering the franchise area, if existing between the applicant and any utility providing for the use of any facilities of the utility, including but not limited to poles, lines or conduits; and
(5)
Any other details, statements, supplementary information, or references pertinent to the subject matter of such application that shall be required or requested by the board of aldermen, or by any other provision of law.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, §§ 2.2.01, 2.2.02, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-57. - Application fees for new franchises.
No application for a new franchise shall be considered without payment by the applicant of application fees as provided in this section. If a franchise is granted, application fees will not be deemed a credit towards any other fees or sums due by the grantee. If an application is denied, the application fee will not be refunded.
(1)
Purpose. The application fees provided by this section will serve to cover the direct and indirect costs incurred by the city in processing the application, evaluating the applicant, and granting a franchise, and shall include but not be limited to administrative, engineering, publication, legal, and consultant's expenses.
(2)
Amount. The applicant will be expected to pay the reasonable costs of the city in evaluating the application. Notwithstanding any other requirement of this article, each applicant must furnish with its proposal a nonrefundable application fee in the amount, as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk, by certified check or cashier's check made payable to the city.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 2.2.03, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-58. - Responsibilities of applicants.
It shall be the responsibility of each applicant for a franchise to comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations and other directives of the city and any federal, state or local governmental authority having jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 2.3, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-59. - Public availability of applications.
To the extent determined by the board of aldermen, applications for franchises, including any additions, modifications or amendments, shall be available for public inspection at a designated city office during normal business hours.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 2.4, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-60. - Evaluation criteria.
In making any determination under this division as to any application for a franchise, the board of aldermen may consider such factors as it deems appropriate and in the public interest, including, without limitation:
(1)
The adequacy of the proposed compensation to be paid to the city, including the value of any facilities and telecommunications services offered by the applicant to the city;
(2)
The legal, financial, technical and other appropriate qualifications of the applicant;
(3)
The ability of the applicant to maintain the property of the city in good condition throughout the term of the franchise;
(4)
The value and efficiency to the city and its residents of the cable services and other telecommunications services to be provided, including the type of telecommunications services to be provided, as well as alternatives to those services and services that may be precluded by the grant of the franchise;
(5)
The willingness and ability of the applicant to meet construction and physical requirements and to abide by all purpose and policy conditions, limitations and requirements with respect to the franchise; and
(6)
Any other public interest factors or considerations deemed pertinent by the city for safeguarding the interests of the city and the public.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 2.5, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-61. - Investigation of applicant.
The city may make such investigations and take or authorize the taking of such other steps as the board of aldermen deems necessary or appropriate to consider and act on applications for franchises and determine whether a franchise should be granted to an applicant, and may require the applicant to furnish additional information and data for this purpose. In considering applications, the board of aldermen may seek advice from other city officials or bodies, from such other advisory bodies as it may establish or determine appropriate, or from the public, and may request the preparation of one or more reports to be submitted to the board of aldermen, which may include recommendations with respect to such applications.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 2.6.01, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-62. - Public hearings.
If the board of aldermen, after considering such information as it determines to be appropriate, elects to further consider one or more applications, the board of aldermen shall set one or more public hearings for consideration of the applications, fixing and setting forth a day, hour and place certain when and where any person having any interest in or objections to such applications may file written comments and appear before the board of aldermen and be heard, and providing notice of such public hearings in accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 2.6.02, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-63. - Negotiations authorized.
The board of aldermen may authorize negotiations between city officials and applicants to determine whether the city and such applicants are able to reach agreement on the terms of the proposed franchise.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 2.6.03, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-64. - Action upon application.
Upon completion of the steps deemed appropriate by the board of aldermen, the board of aldermen may grant the franchise and may specify the conditions under which the franchise is granted. Alternatively, the city may reject any and all applications from whatever source and whenever received, except that a franchising authority may not grant an exclusive franchise and may not unreasonably refuse to award an additional competitive franchise. The city also reserves the right to waive any or all requirements when it determines that the best interests of the city may be served and may, if it so desires, request new or additional proposals.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 2.6.04, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-65. - Terms and conditions of franchise.
The terms and conditions applicable to any franchise granted pursuant to this article shall be set forth in the separate ordinance granting the franchise or in a separate written agreement. Such separate ordinance or written agreement, among other things, shall address the following subjects:
(1)
The term of the franchise;
(2)
The franchise area and the cable services and other telecommunications services and purposes of such other telecommunications services, if any, that are the subject of the franchise;
(3)
The compensation to be paid to the city, which may include the payment of fees or the provision of facilities or services, or both;
(4)
The circumstances upon which the franchise may be terminated or canceled;
(5)
The mechanisms, such as performance bonds, security funds or letters of credit, to be put in place to ensure the performance of the franchisee's obligations under the franchise;
(6)
The city's right to inspect the facilities and records of the franchisee;
(7)
Insurance and indemnification requirements applicable to the franchisee;
(8)
The obligation of the franchisee to maintain complete and accurate books of account and records, and the city's inspection rights with respect to such obligation;
(9)
Provisions to ensure quality workmanship and construction methods;
(10)
Provisions to ensure that the franchisee will comply with all applicable city, state and federal laws, regulations, rules and policies, including without limitation those related to employment, purchasing and investigations;
(11)
Provisions to ensure adequate oversight and regulation of the franchisee by the city;
(12)
Provisions to restrict the assignment or other transfer of the franchise without the prior written consent of the city;
(13)
Remedies available to the city to protect the city's interest upon the franchisee's failure to comply with terms and conditions of the franchise;
(14)
Provisions to ensure that the franchisee will obtain all necessary licenses and permits from, and comply with, all laws, regulations, rules and policies of any governmental body having jurisdiction over the franchisee, including the Federal Communication Commission;
(15)
Provisions to ensure that the franchisee will protect the property of the city and the delivery of public services from damage or interruption of operations resulting from the construction, operation, maintenance, repair or removal of improvements related to the franchise;
(16)
Provisions designed to minimize the extent to which the public use of the streets of the city are disrupted in connection with the construction of improvements relating to the franchise; and
(17)
Such other provisions as the city determines are necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the public interest.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 2.7, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-66. - Written agreement.
No franchise granted under this division shall be effective until the applicant and the city have executed a written agreement setting forth the particular terms and provisions under which the franchisee may occupy and use public rights-of-way within the city.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 3.3, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-67. - Term of grant.
Unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement, a franchise granted under this division shall be in effect for a two-year period.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 3.4, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-68. - Construction permits.
All franchisees are required to obtain construction permits for telecommunications facilities under this article.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 3.5, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-69. - Insurance.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement, each grantee shall, as a condition of the grant, secure and maintain the following liability insurance policies insuring both the grantee and the city, and its elected and appointed officers, officials, agents and employees as coinsureds:
(1)
Comprehensive general liability insurance with limits not less than:
a.
For bodily injury or death to each person, $5,000,000.00;
b.
For property damage resulting from any one accident, $5,000,000.00; and
c.
For all other types of liability, $5,000,000.00.
(2)
Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a limit of $3,000,000.00 for each person and $3,000,000.00 for each accident.
(3)
Worker's compensation within statutory limits and employee's liability insurance with limits of not less than $1,000,000.00.
(4)
Comprehensive form premises-operations, explosions and collapse hazard, underground hazard and products completed hazard with limits of not less than $3,000,000.00.
(b)
The liability insurance policies required by this section shall be maintained by the grantee throughout the term of the telecommunications license or franchise, and such other period of time during which the grantee is operating without a franchise or license under this article, or is engaged in the removal of its telecommunications facilities. Each such insurance policy shall contain the following endorsement:
It is understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the intention not to renew be stated until 90 days after receipt by the city, by registered mail, of a written notice addressed to the city manager of such intent to cancel or not to renew.
(c)
Within 60 days after receipt by the city of such notice, and in no event later than 30 days prior to such cancellation, the grantee shall obtain and furnish to the city, replacement insurance policies meeting the requirements of this section.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 3.6, 5-20-1999)
Sec. 26-70. - Telecommunications fee.
Except for incumbent local exchange carriers (ILEC) (the carrier of last resort), fees for which are set forth in section 26-71, each telecommunications franchise grantee shall pay an annual license fee to the city equal to five percent of the gross receipts of the franchisee.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 4.1, 5-20-1999; Ord. No. 2012-22, § 1, 10-4-2012)
Sec. 26-71. - Annual fee.
Each incumbent local exchange carrier (ILEC) or provider of local telephone service shall pay an annual fee to the city equal to four percent of the recurring local service revenues of such provider. Local telephone service is defined as the tone sent by the originating switch to the originating subscriber allowing access to a local telephone system and the service of telephonic-quality communication with substantially all persons having telephones within such local telephone system. Recurring local service revenues include, for intrastate services rendered and billed to customers within the city, the monthly fixed charge related to the transport of local telephone traffic within the local exchange and network services which enhance that transport. These revenues are classified to the uniform system of accounts 5001—5060, with the exception of directory listings, which are classified to account 5230. Included are residence and business local line charges; local line charges for semipublic coin and customer-owned coin telephones; charges for local private line circuits located within the city and associated mileage; tariffed equipment; central office secondary features such as call waiting, call forwarding and three-way calling; interconnection charges for local cellular and radio common carrier operations; and directory listings.
(Ord. No. 1999-14, § 4.2, 5-20-1999; Ord. No. 2012-22, § 1, 10-4-2012)
