ARTICLE IX. - MOBILE RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Renumbered from Art. VIII by Ord. No. 2015-13, § 2, adopted Oct. 1, 2015.

Sec. 22-300. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commissary shall mean an approved catering establishment, restaurant, or other approved place in which food, containers or supplies are kept, handled, prepared, packaged or stored.
Mobile retail food establishment shall mean a retail food establishment that reports to and operates from a commissary and is readily moveable, is a motorized wheeled vehicle, or a towed wheeled vehicle designed and equipped to serve food.
Pushcart shall mean a nonself-propelled vehicle limited to serving commissary prepared or prepackaged food and nonpotentially hazardous food, unless the equipment is commercially designed and approved to handle food preparation and service. Pushcarts shall not be required to comply with mobile vehicular safety requirements.
Temporary retail food establishment shall mean a retail food establishment, other than a licensed mobile retail food establishment or pushcart, that is not intended to be permanent and that operates at a fixed location for a period of time of not more than 14 consecutive days in conjunction with a single event or celebration.
(Ord. No. 2013-29, § 1, 10-17-2013)
Sec. 22-301. - License required.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, food of any type from a commissary, mobile retail food establishment, pushcart or temporary food establishment without a license first having been granted under this section, except as shown in section 58-47.
(b)
An application for a license or a permit hereunder shall be submitted to the business license department of the city setting forth all information required hereunder and in compliance with this article. The business license department may develop a form of application for the purpose of compliance with this article. The review process for said application shall be conducted in conformity with section 23-20 as now existing or as may be hereafter amended.
(c)
The business license department shall not issue any city license or occupation tax certificate for a restaurant, lunch wagon or other food preparation establishment unless a copy of a valid certificate issued by the county health department for the operation of the business has been filed with the business license department by the applicant.
(d)
Any person or company who receives a license to operate a mobile retail food establishment shall be required to display the certified license, provided by the business license department of the city, in the bottom right corner of the front windshield, so as to be clearly visible.
(Ord. No. 2013-29, § 1, 10-17-2013)
Sec. 22-302. - Prohibited conduct and requirements.
(a)
The mobile retail food establishment shall not conduct business or operate under this article on the public right-of-way and/or within city parks.
(b)
The mobile retail food establishment shall not operate on any private property without the prior consent of the owners.
(c)
The mobile retail food establishment shall maintain a $1,000,000.00 liability policy. Proof of current liability insurance, issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, protecting the licensee, the public and the city from all claims for damage to property and bodily injury, including death, which may arise from operation under or in connection with the permit. Such insurance shall name the city as an additional insured and shall provide that the policy shall not terminate or be canceled prior to the expiration date without 30 days' advanced written notice to the city.
(d)
The mobile retail food establishment shall not emit sounds, outcry, speaker, amplifier or announcements while traveling on the public right-of-ways.
(e)
The mobile retail food establishment shall maintain all state licenses and follow all laws of the state and county health departments.
(f)
The license under which a mobile retail food establishment is operating must be firmly attached and visible on the mobile retail food establishment or pushcart at all times.
(g)
The City of Acworth Police Department shall make such investigation of each applicant for a permit as in the Acworth Police Department's judgment may be appropriate. The Acworth Police Department shall require the applicant to be fingerprinted and photographed. One copy of such photograph shall be permanently attached to the license required to be displayed.
(h)
No permit shall be issued to or held by any person unless that person is satisfactory with respect to character and record. In making a determination as to good moral character the Acworth Police Department shall consider whether or not the applicant has, at some time prior to the filing of the application, been convicted of a felony or other offense involving moral turpitude, and pertinent circumstances connected with such conviction.
(i)
In addition to the grounds shown in section 22-165, the Acworth Police Department may refuse to issue any permit to any applicant whose record shows one or more convictions for an alcohol related offense within the previous 12 month period or a drug related offense or other felony within the previous 36 month period or a pattern of convictions for traffic violations.
(j)
In addition to the grounds shown in section 22-165, the Acworth Police Department may revoke or suspend any permit for any violations of chapter 22 (except parking) of this Code as now existing or as may be hereafter amended.
(k)
No sale or offer for sale shall be made by any licensee between sunset and 6:30 a.m.
(l)
No sale or offer for sale of ice cream, frozen milk, frozen dairy or ice confection products shall be made from a mobile retail food establishment unless each side of the vehicle is marked, in letters and numbers at least three inches in height, with the name and address of the mobile retail food establishment licensee.
(m)
The mobile retail food establishment shall comply with all state, federal and local health and safety regulations and requirements and shall obtain and maintain any and all licenses required by any other health, organization or governmental organization having jurisdiction over this subject matter.
(n)
The following safety regulations shall apply to any and all vehicles operating under this article or used for mobile retail food establishments:
(1)
Every vehicle shall be equipped with a reverse gear signal alarm with a sound distinguishable from the surrounding noise level.
(2)
Every vehicle shall be equipped with two rear-vision mirrors, one at each side, firmly attached to the outside of the motor vehicle, and so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the highway to the rear, along both sides of the vehicle.
(o)
The mobile retail food establishment shall sell food items only.
(Ord. No. 2013-29, § 1, 10-17-2013)
Sec. 22-303. - Indemnity.
As part of the permitting process set forth herein, any person or entity receiving a permit set forth herein shall execute an indemnity agreement indemnifying and releasing the city, its agents, employees and elected officials from any and all liability against any and all claims, actions and suits of any type whatsoever.
(Ord. No. 2013-29, § 1, 10-17-2013)
Sec. 22-304. - Appeals.
Appeals from the grant or denial of a license shall be filed and processed in accordance with the procedures set forth in section 22-164 as now existing or as may be hereafter amended.
(Ord. No. 2013-29, § 1, 10-17-2013)
Sec. 22-305. - Revocation and suspension.
The city shall have the right to revoke or suspend any license granted hereunder in accordance with the procedures set forth in section 22-165 as now existing or as may be hereafter amended and appeals from the revocation or suspension shall likewise be governed by that section.
(Ord. No. 2013-29, § 1, 10-17-2013)
Sec. 22-306. - Fee.
In addition to the occupation tax, every application for license under this section shall be accompanied by a non-refundable processing fee as fixed by the mayor and board of aldermen as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file with the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 2013-29, § 1, 10-17-2013; Ord. No. 2022-16 , § 1, 6-16-2022)
Secs. 22-307—22-320. - Reserved.
