ARTICLE IX. - MOBILE RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS

Sec. 12-300. - Defined.
Mobile retail food establishment shall mean a retail food establishment that prepares and serves solid food from a readily moveable motorized wheeled vehicle, or a towed wheeled vehicle, designed and equipped to serve food. Mobile retail food establishment shall not include vehicles that serve primarily beverages or desserts, with solid food sales accounting for less than 25 percent of the inventory of or retail sales from the vehicle. Mobile retail food establishment shall not include delivery of food from a vehicle to a private location from a fixed restaurant location.
(Ord. No. 2020-0013, § 1, 1-14-2021)
Sec. 12-301. - License required.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale food of any type from a mobile retail food establishment without a license first having been granted under this section.
(b)
An application for a license hereunder shall be submitted to the city clerk setting forth all information required hereunder and in compliance with this article.
(Ord. No. 2020-0013, § 1, 1-14-2021)
Sec. 12-302. - Requirements and prohibited conduct.
(a)
The mobile retail food establishment shall not conduct business or operate under this article on the public right-of-way.
(b)
The mobile retail food establishment shall not operate on any private property without the prior consent of the owner of the real property or a tenant having right of possession.
(c)
No more than one mobile food establishment may operate at any single location at any one time, unless part of a city sponsored event.
(d)
The mobile retail food establishment shall comply with all state, federal, and local health and safety regulations and requirements and shall obtain and maintain any and all licenses required by any other health organization, or governmental organization having jurisdiction over this matter.
(e)
The license under which a mobile retail food establishment is operating must be firmly attached and visible on the mobile retail food establishment at all times.
(f)
Temporary seating may not be provided to patrons of mobile retail food establishments.
(g)
Alcohol sales shall not be permitted at mobile retail food establishments.
(h)
The premises where such temporary business is located shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
(i)
The vendor shall have sufficient parking on the premises to provide parking for the customers and must not allow parking on the streets or adjoining property.
(j)
The vendor shall not conduct business within 300 feet of any licensed brick-and-mortar restaurant, as measured from the main entrance of the fixed food service establishment to the service window of the food truck, without that restaurant's express written consent. This provision may be waived by the city council for city-sanctioned events.
(k)
The vendor shall possess any and all other occupation tax certificates required by federal, state or county law.
(l)
The vendor shall be positioned at least 15 feet away from fire hydrants, driveway entrances, alleys, and handicapped parking spaces.
(m)
Mobile retail food establishments shall not be operated on a residential lot. Notwithstanding the foregoing, mobile retail food establishments may serve as caterers at private events at residences, provided that individual sales to the public shall not be permitted.
(n)
All grease and food preparation related by-products must be disposed of in an appropriate manner as required by federal, state, and city laws, regulations, and ordinances, and shall not be disposed of in the city's sewer or stormwater system. Additionally, a log for six months must be kept and made available to city agents detailing the date, time, and location of disposal of grease and food preparation related by-products.
(o)
The mobile retail food establishment shall not operate on any day other than Monday, Tuesday and Thursday unless such sale is in conjunction with a city sponsored event, or a private catered event in which individual sales to the public are not conducted.
(p)
Operation of a mobile food retail establishment at the Georgia North Industrial Park, Princeton Industrial, and other construction sites shall be permitted on any day of the week year-round, provided that no mobile food retail establishment shall operate at such a location for more than four hours on any one day.
(Ord. No. 2020-0013, § 1, 1-14-2021)
Sec. 12-303. - Revocation and suspension; appeal.
(a)
The city manager shall have the authority to revoke or suspend any license granted under this article upon a finding that a violation of the requirements of this article has occurred.
(b)
The decision to grant, deny, revoke or suspend a license under this article may be appealed to the unified zoning board in the same manner as appeals from decisions under the city's development regulations.
(Ord. No. 2020-0013, § 1, 1-14-2021)
Secs. 12-304—12-327. - Reserved.
