Chapter 39 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 39-1—39-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STREETLIGHT DISTRICTS

Sec. 39-19. - Street light districts created.
The city council has established districts in the city known as "street lighting districts," and such districts shall be identified on the city's official street light district map. Such districts shall be classified according to the local area roads and streets, as follows:
(1)
Major thoroughfare districts.
(2)
Industrial parkway districts.
(3)
Collector street districts.
(4)
Local and residential street districts.
(Ord. of 7-12-2012(1), § 19-31)
Sec. 39-20. - Payment for service—Not a tax.
The cost of service for creation of street lighting districts created shall be a "service cost" and not a tax as such service is authorized by the state constitution.
(Ord. of 7-12-2012(1), § 19-32)
Sec. 39-21. - Same—Cost to be borne by consumers; computation of charge.
The cost of providing and maintaining the service in existing street light districts and in street light districts hereafter created shall be borne by those citizens and residents receiving the service, and that the charge therefor shall be the actual cost of the energy, plus the pro rata share of the retirement of any construction costs, or plus the pro rata share of a lease agreement with the utility company to own, construct and maintain in its entirety the street light district's poles, lights, and any equipment associated with the district. In those districts now in existence, or which may hereafter be retired as per agreement or contract with the public utility or other person to whom the indebtedness is owed, shall be billed accordingly per "lot."
(Ord. of 7-12-2012(1), § 19-33)
Sec. 39-22. - Same—Due date; delinquency.
The due date for the payment of the service and sums provided for in this article shall be the same date of each month as water bills are due to city and subject to the same penalties for late payment and for failure to pay. Water service provided by the city may be discontinued for late payment or nonpayment as provided for in this article.
(Ord. of 7-12-2012(1), § 19-34)
Sec. 39-23. - Lot; defined.
The term "lot" is defined as any single tract of land which falls within any of the zoning classifications as defined by the zoning chapter; provided, however, that in areas zoned for purposes other than single-family residential, different criteria may be adopted by the city council for the payment of energy cost and retirement of construction cost.
(Ord. of 7-12-2012(1), § 19-35)
Sec. 39-24. - Billing, accounting, collecting and receiving of monies.
The billing, accounting, collecting and receiving of monies provided for in the article is declared to be the responsibility of the city utility department.
(Ord. of 7-12-2012(1), § 19-36)
Sec. 39-25. - Conformance with standards; street lights provided by developers.
The owner, developer or other person developing a subdivision, or any other property, who is providing street light services shall be required to conform to all of the standards provided for in this article prior to the city accepting any public streets or roads; and the city shall not accept any public streets or roads proposed to be dedicated until such time as the provisions hereof have been complied with. Building permits shall not be issued until the developer has submitted to the community development division proof of payment for installation of the street lights, as well as a copy of the street light layout as proposed by the electric company.
(Ord. of 7-12-2012(1), § 19-37)
Sec. 39-26. - Districts other than single-family residential.
Street lighting in districts other than single-family residential shall be permitted or may be required by the city as part of the development plan review process with the discretionary approval of the community development director, subject to a review of the safety, economic and other factors involved, and upon compliance with the standards provided for in this article. Costs associated for lighting and maintenance within these districts shall be established on a case by case basis by the city.
(Ord. of 7-12-2012(1), § 19-38)
Sec. 39-27. - Standard for installation and operation.
In order to ensure adequate illumination of public rights-of-way and promote safety and security it is ordained that the American National Standard Practice for Roadway Lighting of the Illuminating Engineering Society, as approved by the American National Standard Institute (1977), as amended, is adopted as the standard for installation and operation of lighting in the city with the following exception:
(1)
Lighting fixtures installed within the public right-of-way to be operated for the purpose of street illumination shall comply with these standards. The minimum average horizontal footcandle illumination level by roadway classification shall be:
EXPAND
Roadway

Classification Commercial Area Intermediate Area Residential Area
Major thoroughfares 2.0 1.2 0.9
Industrial parkways 2.0 1.2 0.9
Collector streets 1.2 0.9 0.6
Local and residential 0.9 0.6 0.2
  The uniformity of illumination shall be such that the point of lowest illumination shall have at least one-third of the average horizontal footcandle streets; it may be not less than one-sixth of this average.
(2)
Any party requesting permission to install or operate lighting fixtures within public right-of-way shall furnish plans specifications to the community development director for approval. Should the community development director disapprove a request to install or operate lighting fixtures within any public right-of-way, he shall communicate disapproval in writing to the party requesting approval. The written communication shall include specific reasons for disapproval. Any disapproval of a light or lighting system by the community development director may be appealed to the city council. If any party desires to appeal an adverse decision by the community development director within 30 days from the date following the written notice of disapproval, it shall be the responsibility of the community development director to transmit, forthwith, to the city council all papers and allied documents constituting the record upon which the action appealed was taken and to ensure that the appeal is promptly placed upon the agenda of the city council for its determination. The city council may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from.
(3)
Roadway or street lighting luminaries or fixtures installed within the public right-of-way as "security lights" for the purpose of lighting areas other than the public streets, shall be mounted on the side of the pole opposite from the street and shall be oriented in such a manner to ensure that the lateral light distribution pattern is parallel to the street and the vertical light distribution, at the initial light source, is perpendicular to the street, so as to protect the users of the street from objectionable glare. The approval of the community development director shall be obtained before installation of these lights.
(4)
Other lighting fixtures to be installed within or outside of public right-of-way for whatever purpose shall be installed and operated in such a manner to prevent glare from being a hazard to or interfering with the normal use of the public right-of-way.
(Ord. of 7-12-2012(1), § 19-39)
Sec. 39-28. - Petition to create special street light district.
Property owners residing in the city and desiring street lighting for the area in which they live, including city streets not part of a platted subdivision, may petition the city's community development department to have such service. Such petition must contain not less than ten property owners representing not less than 65 percent of the property owners within the district to be established, and the city council shall conduct a public hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not to create a street light district. The petition shall be advertised in the official organ of the city one time at least ten days before the public hearing. Safety and economic factors shall be the prime consideration in making such a determination. A petition may be brought by less than ten property owners where such petitioners represent 100 percent of the property owners within the district to be established. The owner, developer, or other person developing a subdivision shall be required to provide street lights which conform to all of the standards provided for in this article.
(Ord. of 7-12-2012(1), § 19-40)
Sec. 39-29. - Establishing special street light districts and providing lighting in special conditions.
In areas where special conditions as to safety, security, land topography, economic and other factors may be involved, the city council may create special street lighting districts and provide for special street lighting under such terms and conditions as may be determined by the city council, and other provisions of this article to the contrary notwithstanding; provided, however, that in such instances, a public hearing shall be held by the city council after advertisement in the official organ of the city one time at least ten days before conducting such public hearing.
(Ord. of 7-12-2012(1), § 19-41)
Sec. 39-30. - Contracting with public utilities.
The city council may contract with public utilities for the purpose of carrying out the terms of this article.
(Ord. of 7-12-2012(1), § 19-42)
Sec. 39-31. - Exceptions.
The city council may grant exceptions to the literal terms of this article where a special condition or hardship exists.
(Ord. of 7-12-2012(1), § 19-43)
Sec. 39-32. - Conflicts of law.
If any provision of this article is in conflict with any state or federal law or with any rule, regulation or order of any state or federal agency, having jurisdiction of the subject matter of this article, it is deemed to be the intention of the city council that the state or federal law or rule, regulation or order, as the case may be, shall prevail so that the remaining portion of this article shall be deemed to be in full force and effect.
(Ord. of 7-12-2012(1), § 19-44)
Sec. 39-33. - Appeal.
Any person or agency dissatisfied with any decision or action of the community development director or of the city shall have the right to appeal from such decision to the city council within 30 days from the date of such decision or action.
(Ord. of 7-12-2012(1), § 19-45)
Sec. 39-34. - Copies of article provided.
The city clerk shall post a copy of this article in the office of the utilities service and provide copies thereof for persons desiring copies of this article. An official copy of the American National Standard Practice for Roadway Lighting of the Illuminating Engineering Society, as approved by the American National Standards Institute, as amended from time to time, shall be available for inspection in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. of 7-12-2012(1), § 19-47)
