ARTICLE VIII. - PEDDLERS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 12-253. - Use of streets.
No peddler shall have any exclusive right to any location in the public streets, be permitted in a stationary location, or be permitted to operate in any congested area where his operations might impede or inconvenience the public. For the purpose of this article, the judgment of a police officer, exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is congested or the public impeded or inconvenienced.
Sec. 12-254. - Duty of police to enforce article.
It shall be the duty of any police officer of the city to require any person seen peddling, and who is not known by such officer to be duly licensed, to produce his peddler's license, and to enforce the provisions of this article against any person found to be violating the provisions of this article.
Secs. 12-255—12-273. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 12-274. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of peddler within the corporate limits of the city without first obtaining a license or, if the business is licensed by another jurisdiction, to provide appropriate licensing documentation to the clerk and, with respect to either alternative above, to register all employees pursuant to the requirements of this article. Upon completion of these requirements, a license to do business within the city shall be issued.
Sec. 12-275. - Application.
(a)
Applicants for a license under this division must file with the clerk in duplicate a sworn application in writing on a form to be furnished by the clerk which shall give the following information:
(1)
Name and description of the applicant.
(2)
Addresses, both legal and local.
(3)
A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be sold and, in the case of products of farm or orchard, whether produced or grown by the applicant.
(4)
If employed by another, the name and address of the employer, together with credentials establishing the exact relationship.
(5)
The length of time for which the right to do business is desired.
(6)
If a vehicle is to be used, a description of it, together with license number or other means of identification.
(7)
If the business is a fireworks stand, the fire marshal's signature is required to acknowledge that the business has been issued a county fire and rescue fireworks stand permit.
(b)
The fingerprints of an applicant for a license under this division shall be taken by the police department.
Sec. 12-276. - Registration fee.
The fee assessed pursuant to this section shall be as provided in the city fee schedule.
Sec. 12-277. - Exhibition.
Peddlers and all of their employees shall be required during the operation of their business to have in their possession a copy of their license and shall exhibit a copy of their license at the request of any citizen.
Sec. 12-278. - Applications; investigation; disqualification.
(a)
Application for a license required by this division shall be made to the clerk and shall state thereon the name of the applicant, the place of business and the number of employees intended to be engaged.
(b)
The chief of police or any other officer of the city designated by the city council shall investigate each applicant for such a license and shall report to the clerk whether or not such applicant is a person of good character.
(c)
No license shall be issued to a person who has been convicted of the offense of receiving stolen goods or of burglary or robbery.
Secs. 12-279—12-299. - Reserved.
