ARTICLE II. - MAYOR AND COUNCIL[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Code of ethics for government service, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1 et seq.; requirement to prescribe the time, place and dates of regular meetings of city council, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d); meetings to be open to public, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1; exemptions from open meeting requirements, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-3.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-23. - City council creation; number; election.
The legislative authority of the government of this city, except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, shall be vested in a city council to be composed of a mayor and four councilmembers. The city council established in this chapter shall in all respects be a successor to and continuation of the city council under prior law. The mayor and councilmembers shall be elected in the manner provided by this chapter.
Sec. 2-24. - City councilmembers; terms and qualifications for office.
The members of the city council shall serve for terms of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. The term of office of each member of the city council shall begin on January 1 immediately following the election of such member unless general law authorizes or requires the term to begin at the first organizational meeting in January or upon some other date. No person shall be eligible to serve as mayor or councilmember unless that person shall have been a resident of the city for 12 months prior to the date of the election of the mayor or members of the city council. Each shall continue to reside therein during that person's period of service and to be registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections of this city.
Sec. 2-25. - Vacancy; filling of vacancies; suspensions.
(a)
Vacancies. The office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant upon such person's failing or ceasing to reside in the city or upon the occurrence of any event specified by applicable laws.
(b)
Filling of vacancies. A vacancy in the office of mayor or councilmember shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, by appointment if less than 12 months remain in the unexpired term, otherwise by an election as provided for in this chapter or state law.
(c)
Suspension. Upon the suspension from office of mayor or councilmember in any manner authorized by the general laws of the state, the city council or those remaining shall appoint a successor for the duration of the suspension. If the suspension becomes permanent, then the office shall become vacant and shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided for in this chapter.
Sec. 2-26. - Compensation and expenses.
The mayor and councilmembers shall receive compensation and expenses for their services as provided by ordinance.
Sec. 2-27. - General power and authority of the city council.
Except as otherwise provided by law or this chapter, the city council shall be vested with all the powers of government of this city including, without limitation, those specific powers enumerated in the city Charter.
Sec. 2-28. - Inquiries and investigations.
The city council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and conduct of any department, office, or agency thereof and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the city council shall be punished as may be provided by ordinance.
Sec. 2-29. - Organizational meeting.
The city council shall hold an organizational meeting on or before the second Monday in January. The meeting shall be called to order by the city clerk. The oath of office shall be administered by the city clerk or other designee to the newly elected members as follows:
"I do solemnly (swear) (affirm) that I will faithfully perform the duties of (mayor) (councilmember) of this city and that I will support and defend the chapter thereof as well as the Constitution and laws of the state and the United States of America."
(Code 2004, § 2-35)
Sec. 2-30. - Chairman (mayor).
The mayor shall act as chairman of the council and is responsible for the orderly conduct of the meeting. In order to fulfill this duty, the mayor shall enforce the rules of procedure that are adopted by the city council. The mayor shall be impartial and conduct the meetings in a fair manner. The mayor may not introduce motions or second a motion except that the mayor may introduce or second a motion to go into executive session. The mayor shall not vote except to break a tie.
(Code 2004, § 2-31)
Sec. 2-31. - Vice-chairman (mayor pro tempore).
(a)
The council shall select a mayor pro tempore (vice-chairman) from the councilmembers at the beginning of each calendar year. The mayor pro tempore shall assume the duties and powers of the mayor during the mayor's physical or mental disability or absence. The mayor pro tempore shall continue to vote and otherwise participate as a councilmember. Any such disability or absence shall be declared by a majority vote of the councilmembers. The mayor pro tempore shall sign all contracts and ordinances in which the mayor has a disqualifying financial interest.
(b)
If the mayor (chairman) and mayor pro tem (vice-chairman) are absent and a quorum is present, the remaining councilmembers shall select a councilmember to serve as temporary chairman of the meeting.
(Code 2004, § 2-32)
Sec. 2-32. - Committees.
The chairman, with the concurrence of the council, may create committees of members of the council to study any issue before the council. Any such committees may make recommendations to the city council, but no committee shall be empowered to make any final decision on any matter before it for consideration. In addition to councilmembers, committees may include other city officials, staff or citizens at large. Whenever a committee is created, its duties, any litigation on the scope of its duties, and the times, places and periods of time for which the committee may operate shall be determined by the chairman with the concurrence of the council. The chairman shall serve as an ex officio member of all committees.
(Code 2004, § 2-33)
Secs. 2-33—2-52. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MEETINGS

Sec. 2-53. - Regular meetings.
(a)
Regular meetings of the council shall be held at 7:00 p.m. on the second Thursday of each month. All regular meetings shall be held in the city hall chamber room. A notice containing the foregoing information shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the general public at the regular meeting place of the council.
(b)
The mayor and council may reschedule the day, time and place of a regularly scheduled meeting by a majority vote of the council when the meeting falls on a federal, state or city holiday, as necessary due to force majeure and for special occasions and ceremonies, as determined by the mayor and council and that of the public, provided that such change is advertised or posted as set forth herein. In addition, notice of such change or cancellation shall be placed in a prominent place at the city hall. If the change or cancellation is the result of an emergency or other unforeseen circumstance, posted notice of such change at city hall shall suffice.
(Code 2004, § 2-36; Ord. of 3-11-2010, § 2-36)
Sec. 2-54. - Special meetings.
Special meetings of the city council may be held on call of the mayor or two members of the city council. Notice of such special meeting shall be served on all other members personally, or by telephone personally, at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice to councilmembers shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmembers are present when the special meeting is called. Such notice of any special meeting may be waived by a councilmember in writing before or after such a meeting, and attendance at the meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice on any business transacted in such councilmember's presence. Only the business stated in the call shall be transacted at the special meeting.
Sec. 2-55. - Canceled or rescheduled meetings.
A meeting may be canceled, rescheduled or moved to a new location within the city by the chairman for any reason. Whenever a meeting is to be held at a time or place other than the regularly scheduled time or place, written notice of the change shall be posted for at least 24 hours at the place of the regular meetings. In addition, written or oral notice shall be given by the city clerk at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting to either the legal organ of the city or a newspaper having a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the city council.
Sec. 2-56. - Open meetings.
All meetings of the city council shall be held in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq. The public shall at all times be afforded access to all meetings other than executive sessions.
(Code 2004, § 2-34)
Sec. 2-57. - Emergency sessions.
When emergency circumstances occur, the council may hold a meeting with less than 24 hours' notice to the public. When such meetings are to be held, the clerk shall provide notice to the legal organ of the city or a newspaper with a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the city council as soon as possible. The notice shall include the subjects expected to be considered at the meeting. In addition, the minutes shall reflect the reason for the emergency meeting and the nature of the notice given to the media.
(Code 2004, § 2-38)
Sec. 2-58. - Executive sessions.
(a)
Executive sessions of the city council may be held for the purpose of conducting business excepted from public access requirements as authorized by O.C.G.A. §§ 50-14-2 and 50-14-3. Where a meeting of the council is devoted, in part, to matters within the authorized exceptions to public access requirements, any portion of the meeting not subject to any such exceptions shall be open to the public. No executive session shall be held except pursuant to a majority affirmative vote of the city council taken in a public meeting.
(b)
The minutes of the public meeting shall reflect the names of the councilmembers present, those voting for the executive session and the specific reasons for the executive session. Minutes of the executive session may be maintained by the city clerk at the direction of the chairman. Any such minutes shall be maintained in a confidential file and shall not be subject to disclosure, except that disclosures of such portions of minutes identifying real estate to be acquired by the council may only be delayed until such time as the acquisition of the real estate has been completed, terminated or abandoned or court proceedings have been initiated.
(Code 2004, § 2-39)
Sec. 2-59. - Quorum; voting.
(a)
Three members of the city council shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the city council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances shall be by voice vote, and the vote shall be recorded in the journal, but any member of the city council shall have the right to request a roll-call vote, and such vote shall be recorded in the journal. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the affirmative vote of three members of the city council shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion. An abstention shall be counted as an affirmative vote. For purposes of establishing a quorum and voting, the mayor shall be deemed to be a member of the city council.
(b)
Members may attend meetings by telephone, with permission of the mayor, and may cast votes, but any member so attending shall not be counted in establishing a quorum. Absent emergency conditions or the written opinion of a physician or other health professional that reasons of health prevent a member's physical presence, no member shall participate by teleconference more than twice in one calendar year.
(Code 2004, § 2-40)
Sec. 2-60. - Abstentions.
A councilmember shall vote on all motions unless he has a conflict of interest that would prevent him from making a decision in a fair and legal manner. If a conflict of interest does exist, the councilmember shall explain for the record his decision to abstain on any vote.
(Code 2004, § 2-42)
Sec. 2-61. - Agenda.
(a)
The mayor, with the assistance of the city manager, shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. An agenda work session shall be held by the city clerk to finalize the agenda. The chairman and all councilmembers may participate in the work session. Whenever a quorum of the council is present for an agenda work session, the meeting shall be open to the public; and all notice and recordkeeping requirements applicable to an open meeting must be met. The agenda shall be made available to the councilmembers at least one business day before every council meeting.
(b)
Members of the public may request that a particular subject be placed on the agenda for the following meeting. To be considered, this request must be submitted in writing to the city clerk and received at least three business days before the meeting.
(c)
The order of the agenda may be changed during a meeting by a majority vote of the council. A new subject that requires urgent attention may be added to the agenda during a meeting by a two-thirds vote of the council.
(d)
A copy of the agenda and a list of those members present shall be made available to the public for inspection within two business days of the adjournment of any meeting.
(Code 2004, § 2-43)
Sec. 2-62. - Consent agenda.
(a)
A consent agenda may be prepared by the city clerk for the council to unanimously adopt motions on routine items. Any items of business that are expected to receive unanimous approval and where no debate is expected may be placed on a consent agenda.
(b)
At the appropriate time of the meeting, the chairman shall read all of the items on the consent agenda. If a councilmember objects to an item being on the consent agenda, the chairman shall move that particular item to the regular agenda. Following the reading of the consent agenda, the chairman will ask for unanimous approval of the items on the consent agenda. If there are no objections, all the items on the consent agenda will be adopted by unanimous consent.
(Code 2004, § 2-44)
Sec. 2-63. - Minutes.
(a)
The city clerk shall promptly record the minutes for each council meeting. The minutes serve as the official written record of the council meeting and shall be open for public inspection once approved as official by the council, but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the council. The minutes shall specify the names of councilmembers present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made at the meeting, the councilmember who proposed each motion, the councilmember who seconded each motion, and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll call vote, the name of each councilmember voting for or against a proposal shall be recorded. It shall be presumed that a councilmember has voted in the affirmative unless the minutes show otherwise. More detailed information may be included in the minutes at the request of the council.
(b)
The council must approve the minutes before they can be considered as an official record of the council. A copy of the minutes from the previous meeting shall be distributed to the councilmembers at least one business day before the following meeting. The minutes of the previous meeting shall be corrected and approved by the council at the beginning of each meeting. A majority vote is required for approval. Conflicts about the content of the minutes shall be decided by majority vote. Upon being approved, the minutes shall be signed by the chairman and attested to by the city clerk.
(Code 2004, § 2-45)
Sec. 2-64. - Order of business.
The order of business at council meetings shall be as determined by the city council from time to time.
(Code 2004, § 2-46)
Sec. 2-65. - Public participation.
Public participation in meetings of the city council shall be permitted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(1)
Public comments. There will be an agenda item at each meeting or work session that shall be reserved for comments from the public. All members of the public who wish to address the council must submit their name, address and the topic of their comments to the city clerk prior to the meeting. These individuals will be allotted five minutes to make their comments, and their comments must be limited to their chosen topic. These limits can be waived by a majority vote of the council. Names will be called in the order in which each request was submitted.
(2)
Public participation on agenda items. By a majority vote, the council may allow public comment on an agenda item at the time the item is being considered by the council. These comments must be limited to the subject that is being debated and may not exceed five minutes per commenter. Anyone wishing to speak at any council meeting must be recognized by the presiding officer before addressing the council.
(3)
Decorum. Members of the public shall not make inappropriate or offensive comments at a meeting. Individuals who violate this provision may be ruled out of order by the presiding officer or on a point of order made by a councilmember. A majority vote of the council will rule on the point of order. An individual who violates the rules of decorum may be removed from the meeting at the direction of the presiding officer.
(4)
Public hearings. The council may schedule public hearings for the purpose of soliciting public comment on any subject of interest to the council. Hearings may be held immediately prior to or following a meeting of the council or at such other places and times as the council may determine. No official action shall be taken at any such public hearing.
(Code 2004, § 2-48; Ord. of 7-12-2007)
Sec. 2-66. - Amendments to rules.
Any amendments to the rules of order must be submitted by a councilmember in writing to the city manager three business days before a regular meeting of the council. The proposed amendment shall be included in the agenda for that meeting and distributed to all councilmembers. All amendments require a two-thirds vote of the council to be adopted.
(Code 2004, § 2-49)
Sec. 2-67. - Suspending the rules of order.
Rules of order may be suspended in the case of an emergency. A motion to suspend the rules requires a second, is debatable, and requires a two-thirds vote of the council. Rules governing quorum, voting methods and requirements, the notification to councilmembers of meetings, and rules necessary for compliance with state law cannot be suspended.
(Code 2004, § 2-50)
Sec. 2-68. - Visual and sound recordings.
Visual or sound recordings shall be permitted for all public meetings.
(Code 2004, § 2-51)
Secs. 2-69—2-94. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - LEGISLATION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Ordinances of city council not to bind succeeding councils, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-3; authority to adopt municipal ordinances, resolutions or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3(a).

Sec. 2-95. - Legislative authority generally.
The city council shall exercise the legislative functions of the city and may pass any ordinance or resolution that it deems best for the government of the city; however, such ordinance or resolution must not be in conflict with the Charter of the city, the constitution or the laws of the state, or the constitution or the laws of the United States.
(Code 2004, § 2-101)
Sec. 2-96. - Action requiring an ordinance; ordinance form; procedures.
(a)
Acts of the city council which have the force and effect of law shall be enacted by ordinance. Every proposed ordinance should be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be, "It is ordained by the city council of the City of Adairsville . . ." and every ordinance shall so begin.
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by the mayor or any member of the city council and be read at a regular or special meeting of the city council. Ordinances shall be considered and adopted or rejected by the city council in accordance with the rules which it shall establish; provided, however, that an ordinance shall not be adopted the same day it is introduced, except for emergency ordinances. Upon introduction of any ordinance, the clerk shall as soon as possible distribute a copy to the mayor and to each councilmember and shall file a reasonable number of copies in the office of the clerk and at such other public places as the city council may designate.
Sec. 2-97. - Ordinances, resolutions, contracts and interlocal agreements.
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, all ordinances, resolutions, contracts and interlocal agreements of the city shall be prepared, approved, introduced and adopted in the manner provided in this division.
(Code 2004, § 2-102)
Sec. 2-98. - Preparation of ordinances.
Whenever possible, all ordinances shall be prepared by the city attorney.
(Code 2004, § 2-103)
Sec. 2-99. - Action restricted; emergencies.
No ordinance shall be put on its final passage on the same day on which it is introduced; except that where an emergency exists and public health and safety require it, an ordinance containing a full statement of the facts and reasons for the emergency may be made effective upon its adoption if approved by the council.
(Code 2004, § 2-106)
Sec. 2-100. - Reading of ordinances.
Each ordinance shall be read at two consecutive meetings of the mayor and council. This section may be waived by two-thirds of those voting upon the question of waiver.
(Code 2004, § 2-107)
Sec. 2-101. - Subject matter of ordinances.
No ordinance shall relate to more than one subject, which shall be clearly expressed in its title; and no ordinance or section of such ordinance shall be amended or repealed unless the new ordinance contains the title of the ordinance or section amended or repealed. When practicable, all ordinances shall be introduced as amendments to this Code.
(Code 2004, § 2-108)
Sec. 2-102. - Adoption of ordinances, resolutions, contracts.
An ordinance, resolution or contract shall be deemed adopted, approved, and effective when it receives an affirmative vote of a majority of the whole council.
(Code 2004, § 2-109)
Sec. 2-103. - Emergency ordinances.
(a)
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property, or public peace, the city council may adopt an emergency ordinance, but such ordinance shall not levy taxes; grant, renew, or extend a franchise; regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services; or authorize the borrowing of money except for loans to be repaid within 30 days. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form prescribed for ordinances generally, except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing the emergency in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted, with or without amendment, or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of at least three councilmembers shall be required for adoption. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand repealed 30 days following the date upon which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
(b)
Such meetings shall be open to the public to the extent required by law and notice to the public of emergency meetings shall be made as fully as is reasonably possible in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 1-10-14-1 or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
Sec. 2-104. - Signing; authenticating; recording; codification; printing.
(a)
The clerk shall authenticate by the clerk's signature and record in full in a properly indexed book kept for that purpose all ordinances adopted by the city council.
(b)
The city council shall provide for the preparation of a general codification of all the ordinances of the city having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted by the city council by ordinance and shall be published promptly, together with all amendments thereto and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the city council may specify. Copies of the Code shall be furnished to all officers, departments, and agencies of the city and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price as fixed by the city council.
(c)
The city council shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to the city Charter to be printed promptly following its adoption, and the printed ordinances and Charter amendments shall be made available for purchase by the public at reasonable prices to be fixed by the city council. Following publication of the first Code under this section and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and Charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein. The city council shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with reproduction and distribution of any current changes in or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the Code.
Secs. 2-105—2-123. - Reserved.
