Chapter 26 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— The state Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions other than those functions for which military forces or state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, acts of domestic or international terrorism, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, radiological action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, protection against the effects of radiological, chemical and other special weapons to include weapons of mass destruction, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, consequence management functions to include victim services, emergency transportation, plant protection, shelter, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian population, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out the foregoing functions.
(Code 1985, § 12-1; Ord. No. 92-111, § 1, 3-10-1992)
Sec. 26-2. - Emergency management agency; emergency management director, duties.
(a)
The City of Albany, Georgia, shall be a part of the Albany-Dougherty County Emergency Management Agency.
(b)
The emergency management director, is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the city and county on matters pertaining to emergency management;
(2)
To assist city and county officials in organizing city and county departments for emergency operations;
(3)
To develop, in conjunction with city and county departments, the city-county plan for emergency functions set forth in section 26-1. Such plan will be in consonance with the Georgia Natural Disaster Operations Plan, Nuclear Emergency Operations Plan, and the state Hurricane Operations Plan, and shall be submitted to the governing officials of Dougherty County, Georgia and the city, therein for approval, and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval;
(4)
To maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the Albany-Dougherty County Emergency Management Agency, including the submission of required reports, to the state emergency management agency;
(5)
To submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.;
(6)
To obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the Albany-Dougherty County Emergency Operations Center; and
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the Albany-Dougherty Emergency Operations Center staff during periods of an emergency, and under the supervision of the Albany-Dougherty County governing officials.
(Code 1985, § 12-2; Ord. No. 92-111, § 2, 3-10-1992; Ord. No. 98-147, § 1, 11-10-1998)
Sec. 26-3. - Functional organization.
The Albany-Dougherty County Emergency Management Agency shall be established around existing city and county departments and the emergency functions described in section 26-1 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department/Agency Functions*
Mayor, chairman, board of commissioners of Dougherty County, Georgia Direction and control
Public Safety Communications Communications and warning
Police department sheriff's office Police services—evacuation
Emergency management agency Public information—state military support preliminary damage assessment and reporting, public property assistance, attack preparedness, specific hazard planning
Fire department Search, rescue and recovery—fire services—hazardous materials—radiological protection
Public works Engineering—petroleum and solid fuel services
Engineering department Engineering—infrastructure and traffic control services
WG and L Commission Utilities services
Albany Transit System Transportation services
American Red Cross Food services shelter
Health department Health and medical services
Clerk's office Administrative services
Department of family and children services Social services—shelter and temporary housing
  *As appropriate to the local organization, these functions can be assigned to existing departments or may be separate. Assignments should be consistent with the local Emergency Operations Plan.
Heads of city departments listed above are responsible for assisting county department heads in developing appropriate annexes to the local Emergency Operations Plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the emergency management coordinator for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Code 1985, § 12-3; Ord. No. 92-111, § 3, 3-10-1992; Ord. No. 98-147, § 1, 11-10-1998)
Sec. 26-4. - Emergency powers.
In the event of a manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, the mayor of the city, separately, or jointly with the chairman, board of commissioners of county or in their absences, the county administrator and the city manager, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and therefore shall have and may exercise for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources;
(2)
To seize, or take for temporary use, any private property for the protection of the public;
(3)
To sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies; and
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Code 1985, § 12-4; Ord. No. 92-111, § 4, 3-10-1992; Ord. No. 98-147, § 1, 11-10-1998)
Sec. 26-5. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as city and county officers and employees.
(Code 1985, § 12-5; Ord. No. 92-111, § 5, 3-10-1992)
Sec. 26-6. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished for committing a misdemeanor.
(Code 1985, § 12-6; Ord. No. 92-111, § 6, 3-10-1992)
Sec. 26-7. - Interpretation.
This chapter shall be construed liberally in order to effectuate its purpose.
(Code 1985, § 12-7; Ord. No. 92-111, § 7, 3-10-1992)
Secs. 26-8—26-36. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PRICE OVERCHARGING DURING EMERGENCIES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Unlawful, unfair, and deceptive trade practice for any person or business in any area in which a state of emergency has been declared to sell or offer for sale at retail any goods or services necessary to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or property at a price higher than the price at which such goods were sold or offered for sale immediately prior to the state of emergency, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-393.4.

Sec. 26-37. - Overcharging prohibited.
(a)
In order to preserve, protect or sustain the life, health or safety of persons, or their property, within the declared disaster area, it shall be unlawful, during the duration of the state of emergency or subsequent recovery period in which the city has been designated as a disaster area, for any person, firm or corporation located or doing business in the city to overcharge for any goods, materials, services, motel rooms, temporary lodging or houses, sold or rented, within the city.
(b)
Except that a retailer or installer of lumber, plywood, and other lumber products may increase the price of such products as may be necessary to replenish such retailer's existing daily stock at current market rates, maintaining the same markup percentage such retailer applied prior to the state of emergency.
(Code 1985, § 12-21; Ord. No. 94-140, § 1, 7-22-1994)
Sec. 26-38. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Overcharging means charging prices for goods, materials, services or housing which are substantially in excess of the customary charges or, in applicable cases, substantially in excess of the suppliers' or providers' costs for such goods, materials, services or housing. The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the merchandise or cost/rental of housing was offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in cost to the supplier directly attributable to the higher cost of material, supplies and labor costs resulting from the emergency.
State of emergency means as defined pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(7) as a condition declared by the governor when, in the governor's judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to a warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency declaration has been terminated.
(Code 1985, § 12-22; Ord. No. 94-140, § 2, 7-22-1994)
Sec. 26-39. - Penalties.
Violations of the provisions of this article upon conviction shall be punished according to the general penalties described in sections 1-17 and 1-18. Each sale or rental shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1985, § 12-23; Ord. No. 94-140, § 3, 7-22-1994)
