ARTICLE V. - EXCISE TAXES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-178. - Application of article.
The provisions of this article shall apply to all wholesalers of malt beverages, wines and distilled spirits selling to the retail trade within this city, regardless of the residence or place of business of such wholesaler.
(Code 1975, § 4-72; Code 1985, § 4-111)
Sec. 6-179. - Imposed.
(a)
There is hereby imposed, levied and assessed a special or excise tax upon the wholesale sale of malt beverages, wines and distilled spirits, at the following rates:
(1)
Wholesale dealers in distilled spirits, per liter: $0.0022.
(2)
Wholesale dealers in wines, per liter: $0.0022.
(3)
Wholesale dealers in malt beverages, commonly known as tap or draft beer, sold in or from a barrel or bulk container, per each container sold containing not more than 15½ gallons: $6.00.
(4)
Wholesale dealers in malt beverages sold in bottles, cans or other containers, except barrel or bulk containers, per 12 ounces: $0.0005.
(b)
The taxes assessed by subsection (a) of this section shall be in addition to any and all other taxes or licenses now imposed upon such wholesale dealers.
(Code 1975, § 4-71; Code 1985, § 4-112; Ord. No. 84-108, § 2, 2-14-1984)
Sec. 6-180. - Payment due.
The taxes imposed by this article upon wholesale sales shall be paid by the wholesale dealers to the city treasurer by the tenth of each month following the calendar month in which the beverages are sold or disposed of within the city, based upon the volume in gallons of beer, wine and liquor sold.
(Code 1975, § 4-73; Code 1985, § 4-113)
Sec. 6-181. - Delinquency.
If after 45 days an excise tax imposed by this article is not paid by a given wholesale dealer, the tax shall become wholly delinquent and all of the provisions of the Code relative to the collection of delinquent taxes shall be applicable for the collection of this tax.
(Code 1975, § 4-73; Code 1985, § 4-114)
Sec. 6-182. - Manner of collection.
Wholesale dealers in malt beverages, wines and distilled spirits are hereby required to collect the taxes imposed upon dealers in such malt beverages, wines and liquors by this article in accordance with the provisions of section 6-206, and to comply with all requirements of state law as they may exist from time to time with respect to the keeping of records and making of reports showing the collection of said taxes and for their services rendered in collecting and remitting to the treasurer the sum collected.
(Code 1975, § 4-74; Code 1985, § 4-115)
Secs. 6-183—6-202. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SALES OF DISTILLED SPIRITS BY THE DRINK

Sec. 6-203. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Agent means the person designated as such by a licensee in the licensee's application for a permit to sell distilled spirits by the drink in the city.
Drink means any distilled spirits served for consumption on the premises which may or may not be diluted by any other liquid.
Licensee means any person who holds a license from the city to sell distilled spirits by the drink.
Monthly period means the calendar month of the year.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, nonprofit corporation or cooperative nonprofit membership, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or any other group or combination acting as a unit, the plural as well as the singular number, excepting the United States of America, Georgia, and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the city is without power to impose the tax provided in this division.
Purchase price means the consideration received for the sale of distilled spirits by the drink valued in money, whether received in cash or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property or services of any kind or nature and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the licensee to the purchaser, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Purchaser means any person who orders and gives present or future consideration for any distilled spirits by the drink.
Tax means the tax imposed by this division.
(Code 1985, § 4-126; Ord. No. 81-161, § I(b)—(i), 6-9-1981)
Sec. 6-204. - Imposition and rate of tax.
There is hereby imposed and levied upon every sale of distilled spirits by the drink in the city a tax in the amount of three percent of the purchase price of such beverage.
(Code 1985, § 4-127; Ord. No. 81-161, § II, 6-9-1981)
Sec. 6-205. - Persons liable for tax.
Every licensee or licensee's agent is hereby authorized and directed to collect the tax imposed by this division from the purchasers of distilled spirits by the drink sold within such licensee's licensed premises. Such licensee or licensee's agent shall furnish such information as may be requested by the license inspector to facilitate the collection of this tax.
(Code 1985, § 4-128; Ord. No. 81-161, § III, 6-9-1981)
Sec. 6-206. - Determination; returns; payments.
(a)
Due date of taxes. All amounts of such taxes shall be due and payable to the license inspector monthly on or before the 20th day of every month next succeeding each respective monthly period as set forth in section 6-205.
(b)
Return; time of filing; persons required to file; contents. On or before the 20th day of the month following each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period shall be filed with the license inspector showing the gross revenues from sale of distilled spirits, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the related period, and such other information as may be required by the license inspector.
(c)
Collection fee allowed operators. Operators collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and payment of the amount due, if the amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be the same rate authorized for deductions from state sales and use taxes under O.C.G.A. § 48-8-50.
(Code 1985, § 4-129; Ord. No. 81-161, § IV, 6-9-1981)
Sec. 6-207. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Recomputation of tax; authority to make; basis. If the license inspector is not satisfied with the return of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the city by any person, the license inspector may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within his or her possession or that may come into his or her possession. One or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one or more monthly periods.
(b)
Interest on deficiency. The amount of the determination shall bear interest at the rate of three-fourths of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, from the due date of taxes.
(c)
Notice of determination; service. The license inspector shall give to the operator written notice of his or her determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail such service shall be addressed to the operator at his or her address as it appears in the records of the license inspector. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by addressee.
(d)
Time within which notice is to be mailed. Except in the case of failure to make a return, every notice of a deficiency determination shall be mailed within three years after the 20th day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period should last expire.
(Code 1985, § 4-130; Ord. No. 81-161, § V, 6-9-1981)
Sec. 6-208. - Determination if no return made.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts. If any person fails to make a return, the license inspector shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the person, or as the case may be, of the amount of the total sales in this city which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period in respect to which the person failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the license inspector. Written notices shall be given in the manner prescribed in section 6-207(c).
(b)
Interest on amount due. The amount of the determination shall bear interest at the rate of three-fourths of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, from the 20th day of the month following the monthly period, for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned, until the date of payment.
(Code 1985, § 4-131; Ord. No. 81-161, § VI, 6-9-1981)
Sec. 6-209. - Penalties and interest for failure to pay tax.
Any licensee who fails to pay the tax imposed by this division to the city, or fails to pay any amount of such tax required to be collected and paid to the city, within the time required, shall pay a penalty of ten percent of the tax, or amount of the tax, plus interest on the unpaid tax or any portion thereof.
(Code 1985, § 4-132; Ord. No. 81-161, § VII, 6-9-1981)
Sec. 6-210. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
(a)
Action for tax. At any time within three years after any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected becomes due and payable and at any time within three years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, the license inspector may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the city to collect the amount delinquent together with interest, court fees, filing fees, attorney's fees and other legal fees incident thereto.
(b)
Duty of successors or assignees of operator. If any operator liable for any amount under this chapter sells out his or her business or quits the business, such operator's successors or assigns shall withhold a sufficient amount of the purchase price to cover such amount until the former owner produces a receipt from the license inspector showing that he or she has been paid or a certificate stating that no amount is due.
(c)
Liability for failure to withhold. If the purchaser of a business fails to withhold purchase price as required, such purchaser shall be personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be withheld by him or her to the extent of the purchase price.
(d)
Tax credit. Whenever the amount of any tax or interest has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city under this division, it may be offset by the license inspector. If the operator or person determines that he or she has overpaid or paid more than once, which fact has not been determined by the license inspector, he or she will have three years from date of payment to file claim in writing stating the specific ground upon which claim is founded. The claim shall be audited. If the claim is approved by the license inspector, the excess amount paid the city may be credited on any amounts then due and payable from the person by whom it was paid, or such person's administrators or executors.
(Code 1985, § 4-133; Ord. No. 81-161, § VIII, 6-9-1981)
Sec. 6-211. - Administration of division.
(a)
Authority of license inspector. The license inspector shall administer and enforce the provisions of this division for the levy and collection of the tax imposed by this division.
(b)
Rules and regulations. The license inspector shall have the power and authority to make and publish reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with this division or other laws of the city and state, or the constitution of this state or the United States for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this division and the collection of taxes under this division.
(c)
Records required for operators, form. Every licensee for the sale of distilled spirits by the drink in this city to a person shall keep such records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent papers in such form as the license inspector may require.
(d)
Examination of records; audits. The license inspector or any person authorized in writing by the license inspector may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any licensee liable for the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the licensee, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(e)
Authority to require reports; contents. In administration of the provisions of this division, the license inspector may require the filing of reports by any person having in such person's possession or custody information relating to the sales of distilled spirits which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the license inspector when required by the license inspector and shall set forth the price charged for each sale, the date of sale and such other information as the license inspector may require.
(f)
Disclosure of business of operators, limitations on rule. The license inspector or any person having an administrative duty under this division shall not make known in any manner the business affairs, operations or information obtained by an audit of books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any licensee or any other person visited or examined in the discharge of official duty, or the amount of source of income, profits, losses, expenditures or any particular thereof, set forth or disclosed in any return, or to permit any return or copy thereof or any book containing any abstract or particulars thereof to be seen or examined by any person not having such administrative duty under this division, except in the case of judicial proceedings or other proceedings necessary to collect the tax hereby levied and assessed. Successors, receivers, trustee, executors, administrators and assignees, if directly interested, may be given information as to the items included in the measure and amount of unpaid tax or amounts of tax required to be collected, interest and penalties.
(Code 1985, § 4-134; Ord. No. 81-161, § IX, 6-9-1981)
Sec. 6-212. - Revocation of license.
The continuous failure to pay the above-prescribed tax shall render the dealer or person liable therefor subject to revocation of their alcoholic beverage license in accordance with the procedures set out in section 6-109.
(Code 1985, § 4-135; Ord. No. 81-161, § X, 6-9-1981)
Secs. 6-213—6-232. - Reserved.
