ARTICLE II. - PUBLIC DANCE PERMITS

Sec. 54-47. - Required; definition.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to operate or conduct a public dance in the city without having first obtained a permit therefor as is herein required.
(b)
For the purposes hereof, a public dance is defined as a gathering of people at a public place for the purpose of dancing, irrespective of whether admission is charged or irrespective of whether said dance is open to the general public or by invitation only.
(Code 1981, § 14-30; Ord. of 1-6-1975, § 1)
Sec. 54-48. - Application for permit.
(a)
Application for a permit for a public dance shall be made to the chief of police or the chief's delegate and shall contain the following information:
(1)
The full true name and any other names used by the applicant, as well as the name of the person or organization/business entity sponsoring the public dance.
a.
If the application is made on behalf of a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, other business entity or civic organization, the name of the corporation, partnership, limited liability company, other business entity or civic organization shall be set forth exactly as shown in its articles of incorporation or charter, together with the place and date of incorporation, place and date of registration, and the names and addresses of each of its current officers and directors. The corporation, partnership, limited liability company, other business entity or civic organization applying for a permit shall attach to the application a copy of its articles of incorporation or bylaws. The corporation, partnership, limited liability company, other business entity or civic organization applying for a permit shall designate one of its officers to act as its responsible managing officer. Such designated person shall complete and sign all application forms required of an individual applicant under this section, but only one application fee shall be charged.
b.
If the person, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, other business entity or civic organization on whose behalf the permit is being filed is doing business under a trade name, the applicant shall attach a copy of the registration statement, verified by affidavit, filed with the city clerk.
(2)
The present address and telephone number of the applicant and person or organization/business entity sponsoring the public dance.
(3)
Date of birth and social security number for the applicant and/or designated managing officer of the organization/business entity sponsoring the public dance.
(4)
Acceptable written proof that the applicant and/or designated managing officer of the organization/business entity sponsoring the public dance is at least 18 years of age.
(5)
Address of the premises where the public dance will be held, conducted or carried on.
(6)
The name and address of the owner and/or lessor of the real property upon which the public dance is to be held, conducted or carried on and a copy of the lease or rental agreement.
(7)
The true names and addresses of two responsible persons over the age of 21 who, on the date of the public dance for which a permit is requested, will remain on the premises of the location where the public dance will be held, conducted, or carried on, from the commencement of the public dance until its end thereafter.
(b)
Application must be made 30 days prior to the date of the proposed dance and shall be made on forms prepared by the city for that purpose.
(Code 1981, § 14-31; Ord. of 1-6-1975, § 2)
Sec. 54-49. - Investigation of applicant.
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to make or cause to be made an investigation into each application. In conducting the investigation, the chief of police may consider the following qualification standards:
(1)
The application meets all the requirements contained in this article;
(2)
The applicant has not made a material misrepresentation in the application;
(3)
The applicant, officers, directors or members of the organization/business entity sponsoring the public dance have been convicted of, pled guilty to or entered a plea of nolo contendre for acts involving moral turpitude where the underlying conduct relates to the applicant's fitness to operate or conduct a public dance involving a gathering of people at a public place;
(4)
The building or structure where the proposed public dance is to be held complies with all applicable ordinances and/or laws including, but not limited to, health, zoning, distance, fire and safety requirements and standards;
(5)
Whether a previous permit or license issued to the applicant, officers, directors or members of the organization/business entity sponsoring the public dance by any state or subdivision thereof or by the federal government has been revoked or suspended and the reasons therefor; and/or
(6)
The applicant, officers, directors or members of the organization/business entity sponsoring the public dance are, in the judgment and discretion of the city council, unfit to have a permit because the manner in which he/she or they have conducted prior or current business dealings has warranted unusual police observation and inspection in order to prevent the violation of any law or regulation relating to such business.
(Code 1981, § 14-32; Ord. of 1-6-1975, § 3)
Sec. 54-50. - Denial.
(a)
If, as a result of the investigation authorized by this article, the applicant's qualifications or business responsibility are found to be unsatisfactory, the police chief shall write on the application the reasons for such disapproval. Within 14 business days after the date upon which the application was filed, the police chief shall mail to the applicant a notice of denial stating the reasons for denial of the permit. The notice shall be deemed complete when mailed.
(b)
The chief of police, in denying an application for a permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of the public dance on a date, at a time, or in a location, different from that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall, within five days after notice of the action of the chief of police, file a written notice of acceptance with the chief of police. An alternate permit shall conform to the requirements of and shall have the effect of a permit issued under this article.
(c)
No application for a permit will be considered for any applicant who has submitted a prior application which has been denied, withdrawn or otherwise disposed of within the past 30 days.
Sec. 54-51. - Issuance.
Upon approval of the chief of police, the city clerk or chief of police shall be authorized to issue a permit for said dance to the person or persons requesting same. There shall be no charge for the issuance of said permit; however, no such permit shall be issued to a person who is not a person of good moral character, nor to a corporation or organization which is not represented by a person of good moral character.
(Code 1981, § 14-33; Ord. of 1-6-1975, § 4)
Sec. 54-52. - Revocation or suspension.
The city manager or the chief of police shall have the authority to revoke or suspend a permit issued under this article upon application of the standards for issuance as set forth in this article.
Sec. 54-53. - Appeal.
(a)
Any person aggrieved by an adverse permit decision of the chief of police may appeal to the city manager. Notification of appeal to the city manager must be in writing and must be submitted to the city clerk within ten days after notice of the denial was sent to the applicant. The city manager shall act upon the appeal within 14 days after the notification of appeal has been received.
(b)
Any person aggrieved by an adverse appeal decision of the city manager may appeal to the city council. Notification of appeal to the city council must be in writing and must be submitted to the city clerk within ten days after the adverse appeal decision of the city manager. The city council shall act upon the appeal within 30 days after the notification of appeal has been received.
Sec. 54-54. - Premises.
It shall be unlawful to conduct a public dance in any hall or place which is not equipped with sufficient and adequate exits of three feet or more in width; no hall or building which is not provided with at least two exits of three feet or more in width shall be used for such purposes.
(Code 1981, § 14-34; Ord. of 1-6-1975, § 5)
Sec. 54-55. - Auxiliary police.
Each such public dance shall be attended by at least two police officers, auxiliary or regular, whose duty it shall be to supervise and patrol at said dance. The person or organization sponsoring said dance shall be responsible for all expenses incurred in the hiring of said police officers.
(Code 1981, § 14-35; Ord. of 1-6-1975, § 6)
Secs. 54-56—54-83. - Reserved.
