ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-19. - Composition.
The city council shall consist of a mayor and five councilmembers, elected for such term as provided by the Charter.
(Code 1981, § 2-20; Ord. of 10-7-1974, § 1(a))
Sec. 2-20. - Regular meeting days and place.
The regular meeting of the council shall be held the first Monday of each month at the hour designated from time to time by the council by resolution, in the council room of the city hall; provided, that if such meeting date shall occur on a holiday the meeting shall be on the next Monday following.
(Code 1981, § 2-21; Ord. of 10-7-1974, § 1(b); Ord. No. 2008-12, 9-20-2004)
Sec. 2-21. - Calling special meetings.
Special meetings may be called by the mayor or any three councilmembers upon an 24-hour written notice to every member of the council; provided the requirement of notice shall not be binding in any special meeting at which all of the members of the council are present. Such notices may be served by any member of the police department or by any other person in the city; and it shall be the duty of the city clerk when given copies of such notices to serve the same or cause the same to be served immediately.
(Code 1981, § 2-22; Ord. of 10-7-1974, § 1(c))
Sec. 2-22. - Disturbing meeting.
It shall be unlawful for any person who, with the intent to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting, to substantially disturb, interrupt, obstruct, or interfere with any regular or special meeting of the council by physical action or verbal utterance. Any person violating any provision of this section may be summarily ejected from the council room and the city hall.
(Code 1981, § 2-23; Ord. of 10-7-1974, § 1(e))
Sec. 2-23. - Majority of council required for certain actions.
No ordinance, or proposition to create an office or position of employment, or to incur an expenditure, shall be passed except on the favorable vote of a majority of the full council, the results of which shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting.
(Code 1969, § 2-1; Code 1981, § 2-24; Ord. of 10-7-1974, § 1(g))
Secs. 2-24—2-49. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - COMMITTEES OF COUNCIL

Sec. 2-50. - Appointment of members.
At the first regular meeting of the city council for any calendar year, the city council shall appoint members of the council to serve for the ensuing year as members of committees for the following departments:
(1)
Police department.
(2)
Fire department.
(3)
Budget and general administration department.
(4)
Public works department.
(5)
Code enforcement department.
(Code 1969, § 2-2; Code 1981, § 2-25)
Sec. 2-51. - Member to be familiar with all aspects of departments.
Each committee member shall familiarize such person's self with the city Charter, and shall as nearly as possible commit to memory those portions of the Charter dealing specifically with such member's department. Such member shall first diligently read, inquire into, and fully understand each ordinance, resolution, rule and regulation as it relates to such member's department. Such member shall diligently study the budget and shall, not less than monthly, study and inquire into expenditures in such member's department.
(Code 1969, § 2-3; Code 1981, § 2-26)
Sec. 2-52. - Specific duties of members.
(a)
Department employees. Each committee member shall thoroughly familiarize such member's self with the name, general status, length of service, work habits, pay scale, and all other facts in connection with each employee in such member's department. Any committee member may at any time discuss any city problem with any city employee for the purpose of inquiry, but shall not at any time give any direct order to any city employee, either publicly or privately. No member of the council or any committee member shall direct or request the appointment of any person to or removal from office by the city manager, or in any manner take part in the appointment or removal of officers or employees in the administrative service of the city.
(b)
Budget. Each committee member shall carefully study and analyze the city's budget as respects such member's department. Such member shall, with the city manager and department head of such member's department, construct a budget for the next succeeding year and shall faithfully and diligently inquire into the city's needs as compared with receipts and revenues and shall, prior to presentation to the council of the annual budget, approve the budget for such department and be prepared to explain its needs and resources in detail. Each committee member shall, prior to each regular monthly council meeting, examine expenditures of such member's department to determine if the budget has been exceeded or if it is expected to be exceeded and shall report such findings to the council.
(c)
Ordinances, etc. Prior to each council meeting, each committee member shall prepare in writing, any ordinance, resolution or rule, that such member proposes to be adopted by the council and shall be prepared to explain such ordinance, resolution or rule in detail as it relates to the city budget, city employees, the public in general, and otherwise. At any such time, such member shall anticipate general questions and inquiry of the council and be prepared to answer the same.
(d)
Relationship with city manager. Each committee member is a representative of the legislative or law-making body of the city. The city manager is the chief administrative officer. Each committee member shall, when possible, set up regular weekly appointments with the city manager for the discussion of problems arising in such member's department, and for the purpose of a general discussion period. Such member shall at all times make such member's self available to the city manager for advice and consent. No committee member shall direct or request the appointment of any person to or removal from office by the city manager, or in any manner take part in the appointment or removal of officers and employees in the administrative service of the city, except the confirmation of appointments as provided in the Charter.
(e)
Promulgating rules and regulations. Within the framework of the city Charter and ordinances, resolutions and rules enacted by the council, each committee member may, in such member's discretion, lay down rules and regulations for the expansion or curtailment of service, method and procedures of regular maintenance and repairs.
(Code 1969, § 2-4; Code 1981, § 2-27)
Sec. 2-53. - Robert's Rules of Order.
The order and procedure of the council shall be governed by Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised, in all matters not provided for herein.
(Code 1981, § 2-28)
Secs. 2-54—2-79. - Reserved.
