Chapter 78 - SUBDIVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Recording of maps and plats, O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67 et seq.; subdivisions abutting state highways, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-150 et seq.; the Zoning Procedures Laws, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.; Georgia Land Sales Act, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION

Sec. 78-1. - Authority.
The provisions of this chapter are enacted in pursuance of the authority granted by the 1983 Constitution of Georgia, article IX, section II, paragraph IV.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 11)
Sec. 78-2. - Jurisdiction.
The provisions of this chapter shall govern all subdivision of land within the corporate limits.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 12)
Secs. 78-3—78-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PURPOSE AND SHORT TITLE

Sec. 78-21. - Purpose.
This chapter is enacted to encourage the development of an economically sound and stable community; to ensure the provision of required streets, utilities and other facilities and services to new land developments; to ensure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in new land developments; to ensure the provision of needed public open spaces and building sites in new land developments to the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational and other public purposes; to ensure, in general, the wise development of areas in harmony with the master plan of the community; and to secure equitable handling of all subdivision plans by providing uniform procedures and standards for observance both of the subdivider and the planning commission.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 21)
Sec. 78-22. - Short title.
This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the "Land Subdivision Regulations, City of Alma, Georgia."
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 22)
Secs. 78-23—78-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TERMS USED IN CHAPTER

Sec. 78-41. - General definitions.
(a)
Except as specifically defined herein, all words used in this chapter shall carry their customary dictionary meanings.
(b)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building. The word "building" includes the word "structure."
City means the City of Alma, Georgia.
Governing authority means the city council of the city.
Lot. The word "lot" includes the word "plot" or "parcel."
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural and words used in the plural include the singular.
Person. The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an individual.
Shall. The word "shall" is always mandatory.
Tense. Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
Used, occupied. The word "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied."
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 31)
Sec. 78-42. - Special definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the special definitions ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Cul-de-sac. A dead-end street where there is room for a vehicle to turn at a circular end.
Master plan. (Same as Comprehensive plan.) Any part or element of the overall plan for development adopted by the Planning Commission as provided by the 1983 Constitution of Georgia, article IX, section II, paragraph IV.
Street. The term "street" means, relates to and includes streets and avenues, boulevards, roads, highways, expressways, lanes, alleys, and other ways. For the purpose of this chapter, streets are classified by function as follows:
Collector street means those streets indicated as such on the zoning map which serve as feeders to a major street, as collectors of traffic from minor streets, and for circulation around a residential neighborhood.
Major street means those indicated as such on the zoning map, which serve primarily as major trafficways for travel through and within the city.
Minor street means those streets provided for the primary purpose of furnishing access to abutting properties.
Subdivider means an individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation, trust or any other legal entity (or agent therefor) that undertakes the activities covered by these regulations. Inasmuch as the subdivision plat is merely a necessary means to the end of ensuring a satisfactory development, the term "subdivider" is intended to include the terms "developer" and "builder" even though the persons involved in successive stages of the project may vary.
Subdivision. A subdivision shall be construed to be a division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or divisions for the sale, legacy or building development, and includes all division of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets, and includes resubdivision, and where appropriate to the context relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or areas subdivided; provided, however, that the following are not included within this definition:
(1)
The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the standards set forth in this chapter.
(2)
The division of land into parcels of five acres or more where no new street is involved.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 32)
Secs. 78-43—78-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - PREAPPLICATION CONSULTATION

Sec. 78-61. - Procedure.
Whenever the subdivision of a tract of land within the city is proposed, the subdivider is urged to consult early and informally with the planning commission. The subdivider may submit sketch plans and data showing existing conditions within the site and its vicinity, and the proposed layout and development of the subdivision. The purpose of the preapplication review is to facilitate the subsequent preparation of plans, and no fees are charged for this review.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), art. IV)
Secs. 78-62—78-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - PRELIMINARY PLAT

Sec. 78-81. - Submission of plat.
Following the preapplication consultation of a proposed land subdivision, the subdivider shall submit to the planning commission the following:
(1)
The preliminary plat and other documents as specified hereafter;
(2)
A letter requesting review and approval of the preliminary plat and giving the name and address of a person to whom the notice of hearing by the planning commission on the preliminary plat shall be sent; and
(3)
A preliminary plat filing fee of $150.00 unless the plat contains five or less lots in which case the fee shall be $15.00 per lot.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 51)
Sec. 78-82. - Review of preliminary plat.
The planning commission shall review the preliminary plat for conformance to the rules and regulations of this chapter, and the requirements of chapter 94, pertaining to zoning, and shall take into consideration the general requirements of the community and the best use of the land to be subdivided. The preliminary plat may be approved, disapproved or approved subject to modifications. The commission may indicate the specific changes required, and the public improvements which must be provided as required by this chapter, or the amount of the performance bond therefor which it will require as a prerequisite to the approval of the final plat.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 52)
Sec. 78-83. - Notice and hearing on preliminary plat.
The planning commission shall hold a hearing on the preliminary plat within 30 days of submission, notice of the time and place of which shall be sent by the secretary of the planning commission by registered or certified mail to the person designated in the letter requesting preliminary plat review and approval, not less than five days before the date fixed therefor. If action is not taken within 30 days of the date of submission, the preliminary plat shall be considered approved and a certificate of approval issued on demand. The subdivider may waive the 30-day time limit and consent to an extension of time.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 53)
Sec. 78-84. - Tentative and conditional nature of preliminary plat approval.
Tentative and conditional approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute approval of the final plat. Rather, it shall be deemed an expression of approval of the layout submitted on the preliminary plat as a guide to the preparation of the final plat which will be submitted for approval of the planning commission and for recording upon fulfillment of the requirements of these regulations and the stipulations in the conditional approval, if any.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 54)
Sec. 78-85. - Expiration of tentative approval of preliminary plat.
The tentative approval shall expire after one year unless an extension of time is granted by the planning commission.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 55)
Sec. 78-86. - Preliminary plat specifications.
The preliminary plat shall meet the following requirements.
(1)
Number of copies. Three copies of the preliminary plat shall be furnished by the subdivider; one copy to be retained in the files of the planning commission, one copy to be reviewed by appropriate city and county officials and the postmaster, and one copy to be returned to the subdivider.
(2)
Form. The preliminary plat shall be drawn clearly and legibly at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet or larger. The sheet size shall be not less than 16 inches by 24 inches. If the complete plat cannot be shown on one sheet, it may be shown on more than one sheet with an index map on a separate sheet of the same size.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 56)
Sec. 78-87. - Data required on preliminary plat.
The preliminary plat shall contain the following information:
(1)
Proposed subdivision name or identifying title and acreage to be subdivided.
(2)
Name and address of owner of record, subdivider and owners of adjoining property.
(3)
Date, graphic scale and north point.
(4)
Contours at an interval of not greater than five feet and such street cross sections and profiles as may be required by the planning commission. Where the land is relatively flat, spot elevations at intervals sufficient to show the drainage pattern shall be plotted. Elevations or monuments or other permanent fixed points shall be noted.
(5)
Exact boundaries of the tract to be subdivided, by distances and bearings.
(6)
Existing and proposed easements and their approximate location, width and distance.
(7)
Names and dimensions of existing and proposed streets and alleys on and adjacent to the tract.
(8)
Location and type of existing and proposed sewerage and storm drainage and water supply facilities and other utilities on or adjacent to the tract, showing proposed connections.
(9)
Lot lines with approximate dimensions and lot numbers.
(10)
Sites, if any, and their acreages, to be reserved or dedicated for public use.
(11)
Present zoning classification.
(12)
Vicinity map showing location of subdivision and its relationship to the rest of the city and surrounding countryside. This may be shown at a smaller scale.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 57)
Secs. 78-88—78-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND DESIGN STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS

Sec. 78-101. - General regulation.
Subdividers shall observe the general requirements and design standards of land subdivision in this article.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), art. VI)
Sec. 78-102. - Conformance to major street plan.
All streets and other features of the major street plan shall be platted by the subdivider in the location and to the dimensions indicated on the major street plan adopted by the planning commission.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 61)
Sec. 78-103. - Public sites and open space.
(a)
When a proposed school site or other public building site, park or other land for public uses is located in whole or in part in the subdivision, the planning commission may require that, as a prerequisite to plat approval, such sites shall be dedicated or reserved by the subdivider for acquisition by the appropriate public agency.
(b)
Areas for parks, playgrounds or other public uses shall be of reasonable size. No arbitrary percentage of areas shall be insisted upon by the planning commission but, in general, developers should set aside not less than five percent of the area for these purposes.
(c)
Whenever a plat proposes the dedication of land to public use that the planning commission finds not required or suitable for such public use, the planning commission shall refuse to approve the plat.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 62)
Sec. 78-104. - Subdivision names.
The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate or too closely approximate the name of any other subdivision within the city.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 63)
Sec. 78-105. - Suitability of land.
Land subject to flooding and land deemed by the commission to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential occupancy, nor for such other uses as may increase danger to health, life or property, or aggravate the flood hazard, but such land within the plat shall be set aside for such uses as shall not be endangered by periodic or occasional inundation or shall not produce unsatisfactory living conditions.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 64)
Sec. 78-106. - Large parcels.
In case a tract is subdivided into larger parcels than ordinary building lots, such parcels shall be arranged so as to allow the opening of future streets and logical future resubdivisions.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 65)
Sec. 78-107. - Lots.
Lots shall front upon a public street. Lot lines shall be generally perpendicular or radial to street lines. Lot dimensions shall meet the requirements of the comprehensive zoning ordinance codified in chapter 94 for the district or districts in which the subdivision is located. Corner lots shall be increased in size wherever necessary so as to provide that any structure to be placed thereon shall conform to the minimum setback line of each street as required in the comprehensive zoning ordinance codified in chapter 94.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 66)
Sec. 78-108. - Blocks.
The length shall not exceed 1,200 feet or be less than 400 feet and the width sufficient to provide for two tiers of lots, but irregularly shaped lots indented by cul-de-sac streets and containing interior parks will be acceptable when properly designed, and provisions made for maintenance of interior parks.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 67)
Sec. 78-109. - Streets.
(a)
Conformance to major street plan and other elements of the master plan. The arrangements of streets in the subdivision shall provide for the continuation of the principal streets in adjoining subdivisions or for their proper projection when adjoining property has not yet been subdivided, and in general, conform to the master plan.
(b)
Street names. Street names shall require the approval of the planning commission. Streets that are obviously in alignment with streets already existing and named shall be given the name of the existing street. Names of new streets shall not duplicate or closely approximate those of existing streets.
(c)
Street jogs. Street jogs with centerline of offsets of less than 125 feet shall not be permitted.
(d)
Existing street jogs. Where development is proposed on an existing street which jogs or offsets less than 125 feet, such street shall be realigned before development is permitted.
(e)
Dead-end or cul-de-sac streets. Dead-end or cul-de-sac streets shall not be greater in length than 500 feet. They shall be provided at the closed end with a turn-around having a property line radius of at least 50 feet, with an outside pavement radius of at least forty 40 feet.
(f)
Alleys. Alleys may be required at the rear of all lots used for multifamily, commercial or industrial developments, but shall not be provided in one- and two-family residential developments unless the subdivider provides evidence satisfactory to the planning commission of the need for alleys.
(g)
Reserve strips. Reserve strips controlling access to streets, alleys and public grounds shall not be permitted unless the control is placed in the hands of the city council under conditions approved by the planning commission.
(h)
Street intersections. Street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles as possible. No street intersection shall be at an angle of less than 60 degrees unless required by unusual circumstances.
(i)
Curb radii. Curb radii at street intersections shall be at least 25 feet. Where the angle of street intersection is less than 90 degrees, a radius of at least 30 feet shall be required.
(j)
Easements. Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall be provided where necessary for utilities or drainage.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 68)
Sec. 78-110. - Geometric standards and other requirements of streets.
EXPAND
Major Streets* Collector Streets Minor Streets
Minimum right-of-way width 80 ft. 60 ft. 50 ft.
Maximum street grade 6% 10% 12%
Minimum street grade 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
Horizontal curvature (minimum radii) 800 ft. 200 ft. 100 ft.
Minimum tangent length between reverse curves 200 ft. 100 ft. 100 ft.
Minimum sight distance at 4 ft. above ground level 500 ft. 300 ft. 300 ft.
Minimum paving width between curbs 60 ft. 40 ft. 32 ft.
  *Major streets shall meet all requirements shown on the major thoroughfare plan.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 69)
Secs. 78-111—78-130. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS IN SUBDIVISIONS

Sec. 78-131. - Preliminary plat approval.
Construction of improvements shall not commence until the preliminary plat has been approved.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), art. VII)
Sec. 78-132. - Improvements installed by subdivider.
The subdivider shall be required to install or have installed at his expense the following improvements:
(1)
Monuments. Two concrete monuments at least 36 inches in length and four inches square with a suitable center point at each street intersection on the right-of-way line, and iron pin monuments three-fourths of an inch in diameter and 24 inches long at all points on boundary lines of lots where there is a change in directions and at all lot corners.
(2)
Streets. At least 1½ inches of hot plant mix asphalt on a base of at least six inches thickness of compacted class "A" or "B" sand-clay or topsoil, or equivalent as specified by the Georgia State Highway Department. No final grading or paving of the street, or construction or installation of utilities in the bed of a street shall be permitted until the grade has been officially established. No paving shall begin until the compacted base has been inspected and approved by the official representative of the city, and underground utilities installed and approved.
(3)
Water mains. Where a public water main is within 1,500 feet of the subdivision at its nearest point, the subdivider shall connect with such water main. In such cases, mains of at least six inches shall be required. The subdivider shall be responsible for the costs of all taps and extensions to existing municipal facilities. Where a public water main is not reasonably accessible as determined by the planning commission, the subdivider shall provide an individual water supply according to the standards of the City of Alma or the Bacon County Health Department, and the most restrictive standard shall apply.
(4)
Sanitary sewers. Wherever a public sanitary sewer is within 1,500 feet of the subdivision at its nearest point and connection by gravity flow is feasible, the subdivider shall connect with such sanitary sewer and provide a connection for each lot. The size of the mains shall be at least eight inches. The subdivider shall be responsible for the costs of all taps, lift pump stations, manholes and extensions to existing municipal facilities. Where sanitary sewers are not available, an oxidation pond, septic tank, or other disposal device designed and installed according to standards of the City of Alma or the Bacon County Health Department may be permitted, and the most restrictive standards shall apply.
(5)
Storm sewers. Storm sewers, catchbasins, and traps shall be provided in each subdivision. They shall be designed to carry not less than the stormwater from a rainfall expected to occur once in ten years with a runoff factor depending on the topography of the ground for other areas. Storm drainage design shall be based on Talbot's Formula.
(6)
Curbs and gutters. Curbs and gutters shall be required in all subdivisions. Paved valley gutters may be permitted on grades over six percent.
(7)
Variances or other improvements. Where the subdivider can show that a provision of these regulations would cause unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to, and where, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site, in the opinion of the planning commission, a departure may be made without destroying the intent of such provisions, the planning commission may authorize a variance. Likewise, if because of peculiar conditions or circumstances relative to a particular subdivision, the planning commission may require the installation of sidewalks, street trees or other improvements. Any variance thus authorized or additional improvement thus required is to be stated in writing in the minutes of the planning commission with the reasoning on which the variance or addition was justified set forth.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 71)
Sec. 78-133. - Improvements to be installed by the city.
(a)
Street name markers. Street name markers shall be provided at the corners of all street intersections.
(b)
Fire hydrants. One fire hydrant shall be provided within 500 feet of each residence or other structure measured over streets, and at any other locations designated by the chief of the fire department.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 72)
Secs. 78-134—78-150. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. - FINAL PLAT

Sec. 78-151. - Filing of certificates.
After tentative approval of the preliminary plat and before approval of the final plat, there shall be filed with the planning commission by the code enforcement officer and all other departments of the city and county concerned with the requirements of subdivisions, certificates as to the satisfactory completion of all improvements required, and for any requirements not so completed, a certificate by the city attorney as to the sufficiency of the bond offered in lieu thereof.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), art. VIII)
Sec. 78-152. - Procedure for final plat approval.
The subdivider shall submit to the planning commission the following:
(1)
The final plat and other documents as specified hereafter.
(2)
A letter requesting review and approval of the final plat and giving the name and address of a person to whom the notice of a hearing by the planning commission on the final plat shall be sent.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 81)
Sec. 78-153. - Review of final plat.
The planning commission shall review the final plat for conformance with the tentatively approved preliminary plat and with the rules and regulations of this chapter. The final plat may be approved, disapproved, or approved subject to modification.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 82)
Sec. 78-154. - Notice of hearing on final plat.
The planning commission shall hold a hearing on the final plat within 30 days of submission, notice of the time and place of which shall be sent by the secretary of the planning commission by registered or certified mail to the person designated in the letter and on the plat, requesting review and approval, not less than five days before the date fixed therefor. After the hearing, notation of the action taken shall be made on each of three required copies of the final plat. If action is not taken within 30 days of the date of submission, the final plat shall be considered approved and a certificate of approval issued on demand. The subdivider may waive the 30-day limit and consent to an extension of time. The ground of disapproval of any plat shall be stated in the records of the planning commission.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 83)
Sec. 78-155. - Recording of final plat.
Upon approval of the final plat, with the signature of the secretary thereon, the developer shall have the plat recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county. The subdivider shall have responsibility for payment of the recording fee.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 84)
Sec. 78-156. - Final plat specifications.
The final plat shall conform to and meet the specifications of the preliminary plat and certain additional specifications as follows:
(1)
Exact location and description of monuments.
(2)
Exact locations, widths and names of all streets and alleys within and immediately adjoining the plat.
(3)
Street centerlines showing angles of deflection, angles of intersection, radii and lengths of tangents.
(4)
Lot lines with dimensions to the nearest one-tenth foot and bearings.
(5)
Lots numbered in numerical order and blocks lettered alphabetically.
(6)
Locations and dimensions of all improvements constructed or installed.
(7)
Private covenants or restrictions, if any, shall either be recorded on the final plat or on an identified document attached to the final plat.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 85)
Secs. 78-157—78-180. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IX. - ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES

Sec. 78-181. - Plat approval.
After the ordinance from which this chapter is derived shall have been put into effect, any subdivision that fails to meet the requirements of this chapter shall be disapproved by the planning commission.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 91)
Sec. 78-182. - Recording of plats.
No plat of a subdivision lying within the corporate limits of the city shall be recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county unless it has been given final approval by the planning commission and the description by metes and bounds on the instrument of transfer or other document shall not exempt the transaction from such requirements. The recording of a plat of a subdivision that has not been given final approval by the planning commission shall be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 92)
Sec. 78-183. - Acceptance of streets.
No public authority shall accept, improve or maintain any street not shown on an approved and recorded final plat unless such street has received the legal status of a public street.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 93)
Sec. 78-184. - Street access for issuance of building permit.
No building permit shall be issued and no building or other structure shall be erected on any lot within the city unless the street giving access to said lots is a public street. Any building erected in violation of these provisions is an unlawful structure and the code enforcement officer, city attorney or other agent of the city shall enjoin such erection or cause the building to be vacated or removed.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 94)
Secs. 78-185—78-210. - Reserved.
ARTICLE X. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 78-211. - Conflict with other laws.
When the provisions of this chapter specify more restrictive standards than required by any other statute, the requirements of this chapter shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other statute require more restrictive standards, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 101)
Sec. 78-212. - Separability.
Should any section, part of a section, or any provision of this chapter be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 102)
Sec. 78-213. - Repeal of conflicting ordinances.
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are repealed.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 103)
Sec. 78-214. - Effective date.
This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after its adoption, the public welfare demanding it.
(Ord. of 10-30-1972(2), § 104)
