ARTICLE VIII. - UTILITIES AND IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 85. - City-owned facilities—Authority generally, including eminent domain.
The city shall have the power and authority to operate, enlarge, expand, extend, improve, construct, lay, maintain, remove, repair, and replace electric and natural or other gas lines, sewer and sanitary systems and facilities, within and without the city, and to charge, contract for and receive compensation for such service or services, and on such terms and conditions as may be approved by ordinance, and for such purposes the city shall have the power of eminent domain which it is hereby authorized to exercise to acquire by condemnation or negotiation, any lands, easements, rights-of-way and other properties or rights therein deemed needful or convenient for any purposes when necessary to acquire same for city owned facilities.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 4.01)
Sec. 86. - Same—Extending, etc.; purchasing services; charging for; promulgating rules.
The city shall have the power and authority to extend, construct, maintain, and operate its water, sewerage, electric light and power lines and systems, and other public utilities, in all directions beyond the corporate limits of said city, as the same now exist or may hereafter be established; and the city shall have authority to furnish water, light, power, and sewerage connections to persons, firms and corporations within and without the corporate limits of said city, and to charge for the same; to purchase electrical current from any source, either within or without the city limits; to make rules and regulations and the city may make different charges for the use of such utilities within and without the corporate limits of said city.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 18.02)
Sec. 87. - Same—Enlarging, etc.; referendum on sale.
The city shall continue to supply water and sewerage and should the city acquire other public utilities, the mayor and council shall be invested with all the authority to enlarge such systems of public utilities as they may deem necessary, and they may have authority to prescribe by ordinances for the government and regulation of all public utilities. Provided, that before said mayor and council shall dispose of any one or all of the herein named public utilities by absolute sale in fee simple, an election shall be called submitting the matter to the qualified voters of said city for their approval or disapproval. Said election to be called, held, and the result determined under the election laws now in force, or that may be hereafter prescribed for creating a bonded indebtedness against said city.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 18.01)
Sec. 88. - Same—Disposal of water or sewerage facilities; referendum.
No sale, conveyance or disposition by the city of its water system or of its sewer system, or of any interests therein shall ever be of any force or effect unless or until approved by the duly qualified voters of the city voting at an election specially called for this purpose; a notice of which election shall be published once a week in the official newspaper of the city for four (4) weeks next preceding such election, which notice shall state the name of the proposed buyer, the terms and conditions of the proposed sale, the date of the election, the location of the voting precincts, and such other information as the city council may order, revenue certificates excepted.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 5.02)
Sec. 89. - City water, gas, electricity, parks and recreation facilities.
The city shall have the right, power and authority to own, maintain and operate a system of waterworks, a natural or other type gas system, an electric plant and distribution system, and to purchase, generate and sell the products thereof, and to sell water, gas and electric energy and to fix rates for all the aforementioned, and to develop, maintain, and operate parks and recreation facilities, all subject to other provisions of this charter.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 4.02)
Sec. 90. - Acquiring property for water and sewerage facilities.
The city is hereby authorized and empowered to acquire, by contract, purchase, or condemnation, rights-of-way, easements, and privileges for water and sewerage systems within the corporate limits of the city and without the corporate limits of the city in any direction beyond the corporate limits of the city as the same now exist or may be hereafter established.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 18.03)
Sec. 91. - Referendum required for city gas and electric utilities.
The city shall not at any time purchase, construct, or attempt to operate any gas or electrical utilities without first holding a referendum thereon of the voters of the city.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 4.03)
Sec. 92. - Contracting to furnish services.
The mayor and city council shall have power and authority to make or cause to be made contracts to furnish customers with electric energy, lights, water and gas within and without the territorial limits of the city when this can be done without adversely affecting the inhabitants of the city, or holders of pertinent franchises.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 4.04)
Sec. 93. - Jurisdiction of city over lands and facilities.
The city shall have complete power, authority and jurisdiction for all purposes over all of the lands on, over, or through, which trunk or intercepting sewer, gas, water, or electric transmission lines or facilities have heretofore been or may hereafter be constructed and maintained by the city or over which an easement is secured by the city and which it is the duty of the city to inspect, improve, and maintain within or without the limits of the city; said power, authority, and jurisdiction shall extend the full distance of said lines or facilities and a specified number of feet, to be determined by the mayor and council, in all directions from same as well as over the land purchased by said city for the location and maintenance of such facilities or other purposes, and all such lands are hereby incorporated in and made a part of said city, except such as are located within the corporate limits of another municipality, subject to rights of pertinent franchise holders, and authority granted by such other municipality.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 5.00)
Sec. 94. - Lien for charges.
For electricity, water, and gas furnished, and for all sewerage and sanitary services rendered by the city, said city shall have a lien against the property served by said utilities and services; said lien shall run from the date the contract is made or the services commence up to and until all charges therefor shall have been paid in full.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 5.01)
Sec. 95. - Bond issues authorized.
The city may, in the manner prescribed by law, provide by ordinance for the issuing of bonds for enlarging or extending the public utilities of the city, including waterworks, sewerage, electric lights, natural gas, street, and other public improvements.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 17.01)
Sec. 96. - Conveyance of franchise.
No franchise granted by said city may be sold, transferred, leased, or assigned to or used by anyone other than the grantee without adequate compensation, and written consent of the city council.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 1.07)
