ARTICLE VI. - JUDICIAL AND LEGAL

Sec. 66. - Court—Establishment; jurisdiction; presiding officer; prosecuting officer.
A city court, presided over by a recorder as may be prescribed by ordinance, may be established by a majority vote of the council, which court shall have jurisdiction over violations of this Act and ordinances of the city. The [recorder's] court shall have concurrent jurisdiction with that of a [state court] over offenses against the criminal laws of the state committed within the city. The recorder shall have authority to impose fines, costs, forfeitures, and imprisonment in a jail or workhouse, as provided in this Act and by ordinance, and except as provided in this Act his authority and powers and the procedure in the city court shall be the same as provided by state law for a justice of the peace. Appeals from the [municipal] court shall be to the [superior] court. Warrants, subpoenas and other processes of the [municipal] court shall be executed by police officers of the city, who for such purposes shall have the same powers and authority of a sheriff in executing process of a [superior] court.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 9.01; 1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1329), p. 3751, § 4(8.02))
Editor's note— The term "court" as it appears in this provision was originally entitled "city court" although it was not a "city court;" "city courts" were previously state courts, and have now been named "state court." Originally the term "circuit" court appeared where now the term "superior" court appears.
Sec. 67. - Same—Appointment, compensation and removal of recorder; disqualification of recorder; personnel.
The mayor and council at the first meeting in July of each year, or soon thereafter as practicable, shall appoint and fix the salary of the recorder for a term of one year and until his or her successor shall have been elected and qualified. The salary of the recorder shall not be changed during his term of office. The council may impeach and remove the recorder for neglect or refusal to enforce the laws of the state and ordinances of the city, or for other misconduct in office or neglect of duty, but any person so removed may appeal to the superior court and thence to the supreme court of the state. The council shall fill a vacancy in this office by appointment for the unexpired term. The recorder shall excuse himself from a case in which (a) he is interested, (b) he is related to the defendant by blood or marriage within the third degree, or (c) for any reason he believes that he will be prejudiced, and such a case as well as cases during the absence or disability of the recorder, shall be heard and decided by the mayor or by an acting recorder appointed by the mayor. The compensation of an acting recorder shall be fixed by ordinance. The council may authorize a court clerk and other personnel, to assist and to be appointed and removed by the recorder and to perform such duties as may be prescribed by ordinance or by the recorder.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 9.02; 1986 Ga. Laws (Act No. 546), p. 5758, § 1; Ord. No. 1985-4, § 1, 4-22-1985)
Sec. 68. - Same—Recorder's authority.
The recorder's court, in and for said city, shall have jurisdiction over the trial of all offenders against the laws and ordinances of said city, to be heard by the recorder, mayor, or acting recorder as the case may be, in the court room in the city hall of said city as often as necessary. Said court shall have power to preserve order, and to compel the attendance of witnesses, and to punish for contempt by imprisonment not exceeding fifteen (15) days, or fine not exceeding twenty-five dollars ($25.00), either or both, in the discretion of the court. Said recorder shall have full power and authority upon conviction to sentence any defendant to labor upon the streets or other public works in said [city] a period not exceeding one year or to impose a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or to sentence said offender to be confined and imprisoned in city prison or other places of confinement in said city for a period not exceeding one year; either one or more said penalties may be imposed in the discretion of said recorder. The recorder shall have the right to issue criminal warrants, to hold preliminary trials and to fix bonds of all persons tried before him to answer for their appearance at Bacon County Superior Court for a violation of the criminal laws of said state, or in default of such bond, commit such offenders to jail for safekeeping.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 9.03)
Sec. 69. - Police authority to arrest without warrant and detain; summoning assistance.
It shall be lawful for the chief of police or any special policeman lawfully appointed to arrest, without warrant, any and all persons violating the ordinances and laws of said state and city, in the city limits, when said violation takes place in the presence of said officer, and to confine such person or persons so arrested in the city prison, until a hearing can be had before the proper officer. Said chief of police or policeman shall have power and authority to call to his assistance to arrest and detain such offenders any bystander, and such person when summoned shall be bound to aid and assist said officers; should such person fail to do so, he shall be liable to prosecution pursuant to section 7 herein. The chief of police or policeman may call sheriffs and their deputies, constables, and other state or county officers for assistance, in the arrest, detention, investigation, and conviction of offenders, when not contrary to state law.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 14.01)
Sec. 70. - Appearance bonds.
The mayor and city council may provide by ordinance for the taking of appearance bonds, to be made by persons charged with the violation of any of the laws or ordinances of the city. They may prescribe by ordinance for the taking of cash collateral bond or have bonds issued by personal solvent securities and they may provide for the summary forfeiture of all cash bonds and for the summary forfeiture of all other appearance bonds by order of the recorder's court, or mayor's court which order when entered may be enforced by executions therefor, issued by the city clerk.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 14.02)
Sec. 71. - Subpoena power generally.
The city council, mayor's court, recorder's court, all boards, commissions, committees or other agencies of the city charged with the administration of the affairs of the city, excluding individual officers, except in cases in which they are specially authorized by law or ordinance, shall have power and authority to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of relevant and admissible documents in proper cases, and any person failing or refusing to attend as a witness or to produce relevant and pertinent documentary evidence within his power, custody or control when duly notified or called upon to do so in a proper case shall be subject to punishment prescribed by ordinance of the city.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 3.03)
Sec. 72. - Executions—Issuance, levy and sale; taxes excepted.
All executions for the enforcement or collections of fines, assessments, forfeitures, public improvement costs or other claims, demands, or debts, except ad valorem taxes, shall be issued by the city clerk and bear teste in the name of the mayor or mayor pro tempore, unless otherwise provided, and shall be directed to the chief of police, all police officers of the city, and to all and singular the sheriffs and constables of this state, and shall state the purpose or purposes for which issued, and shall be made returnable to the city council ninety (90) days after the date of its issue; and it shall be the duty of the city marshal or other levying officer into whose hands such executions are placed to levy the same, to advertise the sale of the property so levied upon, and to sell the same in the same manner as sheriff's sales of real estate and constable's sales of personal property, are levied, advertised, and sold under common law executions, as nearly as is practicable. In such cases, the defendant in execution shall have the right to file an affidavit of illegality if such execution shall have issued illegally or if it is proceeding illegally in either of which cases such execution shall be returned by the levying officer to the Superior Court of Bacon County for trial as in other cases of affidavit of illegality; provided bond shall be made as in other cases of illegality. Such sale shall have the same force and effect as a sheriff's or constable's sale or similar property, and the officer making such sale shall have the same power as a sheriff to put purchasers in possession. Whenever at any such sale no one present shall offer as much for the property levied upon as the amount of such execution together with all interest and costs thereon, after such property shall have been offered a reasonable time the city, through its authorized agent, shall bid on such property and shall purchase the same on behalf of the city for not more than the amount of such execution and costs, if the value of such property is sufficient to cover such principal, interest, and cost, and the marshal or other officer making the sale shall make and deliver to the city a deed to the property so sold, and the title thus acquired by the city shall be and become perfect and valid when the owner's right of redemption, if any he has, shall have expired, and the officer making the sale shall put the city in possession, and the city council shall have no right or authority to divest or alienate the title of the city to the property so purchased, except by public sale for cash to the highest bidder in the manner prescribed by law or by ordinance of the city, after legal advertising of such sale.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 3.04)
Sec. 73. - Same—Taxes; issuance, levy and collection.
In all cases where any taxes, fines, or license fees are not paid when due, the tax collector shall issue executions against the delinquents, which executions shall be directed to the chief of police of said city and his deputies, and it is hereby made the duty of the chief of police and his deputies to proceed to levy and collect all such fi. fas., as in the case of fi. fas. issued for the state and county taxes. To any execution issued by the city, the defendant shall have the right to file an affidavit denying for any reason that the whole or any part of the amount for which the execution issued is due, stating the reason why the same is not due by and from the defendant, and stating what amount is admitted to be due, if any; and said amount admittedly due shall be paid before the affidavit shall be received for the balance; and said affidavit so received shall be returned to the Superior Court of Bacon County, and there be tried and the issue determined as in cases of illegality for delay.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 19.09)
Sec. 74. - Same—Forms.
The forms of execution for taxes, costs of construction of streets, street curbing, sidewalks, and sewers, and for repairs or improvements thereof, and for fines and forfeitures in the recorder's court, or mayor's court of the city, and for any other expenses, costs, charges, licenses or assessments shall be prescribed by ordinance, provided this section shall not invalidate any for same now in use by the city.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 257), p. 2643, § 3.05)
Sec. 75. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 75 of this compilation (§ 26.01 of the 1967 Charter Act) provided for notice of claims against the city for damages. This section has been superseded and made obsolete by O.C.G.A. § 36-33-5 (Demand prerequisite to suit for injury to person or property; suspension of limitations).
