ARTICLE IX. - LICENSED ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CATERERS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Sales off premises for catered functions, O.C.G.A. § 3-11-1 et seq.

Sec. 4-239. - Licensed alcoholic beverage caterers.
(a)
License requirements; resident caterers.
(1)
Any caterer who possesses a valid city license to sell or otherwise dispense malt beverages, wine or distilled spirits by the drink for consumption on the premises within the city may apply for an off-premises license that permits sales of the same off premises at authorized catered events or functions.
(2)
Any caterer who possesses a valid city license to sell malt beverages, wine or distilled spirits by the package for consumption off the premises within the city may apply for an off-premises license that permits sales of the same class of alcoholic beverages by the drink off premises at authorized catered events or functions.
(3)
Each off-premises catering license authorized herein shall be valid through December 31 of the year for which it is issued. The fee for each license shall be set by resolution of the city council, and this fee shall remain in effect until modified or amended by subsequent resolution.
(4)
In order to distribute or sell malt beverages, wine or distilled spirits at an authorized catered function, a licensed alcoholic beverage caterer shall file an application for an off-premises event permit with the director of community development at no additional fee. The application shall include the name of the caterer, the date, address and time of the event, the caterer's license number and any other information the city deems necessary to review a request for such permit.
(5)
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, carry on or conduct the sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages off premises and in connection with the catered event or function without first having obtained a license and event permit as provided herein.
(b)
Permit requirements; nonresident caterers.
(1)
A nonresident alcoholic beverage caterer shall submit an application for an off-premises event permit to the director of community development or his designee. The fee for each such permit shall be $50.00, as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 3-11-3 (or such fee as may be authorized by any future amendment or revision thereto).
(2)
An application for an off-premises event permit shall include the name of the caterer, the licensed alcoholic beverage caterer's state and local license number and expiration date, the date, address, time, and name of the event and the quantity and type of alcoholic beverages to be transported from the licensee's primary location to the location of the authorized catered event or function.
(3)
The original off-premises permit shall be kept in the vehicle transporting the alcoholic beverages to the catered event or function.
(4)
It shall be unlawful for a licensed alcoholic beverage caterer to distribute, sell, or otherwise dispense alcoholic beverages off premises except as authorized by the off-premises event permit.
(c)
A licensed alcoholic beverage caterer may sell or otherwise dispense only that which is authorized by his alcoholic beverage license. For example, if the alcoholic beverage caterer possesses a valid license to sell malt beverages, he may sell or otherwise dispense only malt beverages at the authorized catered event or function.
(d)
Sunday sales. An alcoholic beverage caterer wishing to cater an event or function on a Sunday must possess a valid Sunday sales license and comply with the requirements of state law with respect to the service of alcoholic beverages on Sunday.
(e)
Excise taxes are imposed upon the sale of alcoholic beverages by resident caterers as provided in this chapter. Excise taxes are imposed upon the total of individual alcoholic beverages served by a nonresident caterer in the amount set forth in this chapter, and shall be paid within 30 days after the conclusion of the catered event or function.
(Code 1989, § 3-110; Ord. No. 679, § 16, 7-15-2013; Ord. No. 784 , § 1(Exh. A), 8-26-2019)
Secs. 4-240—4-256. - Reserved.
