ARTICLE VII. - BREW PUBS

Sec. 4-188. - Exception for brew pubs.
A limited exception to the provisions of this chapter which implement and enforce the three-tier system for the manufacture, distribution and sale of malt beverages established under state law shall exist for owners and operators of brew pubs, subject to the following terms and conditions:
(1)
No individual or person shall be permitted to own or operate a brew pub without first obtaining a proper brew pub license from the city council pursuant to the procedures set forth in article I of this chapter, and each brew pub licensee shall comply with all other applicable state and local license requirements;
(2)
A brew pub license authorizes the holder of such license to:
a.
Manufacture on the licensed premises not more than 10,000 barrels of malt beverage in a calendar year solely for retail sale;
b.
Operate an eating establishment that shall be the sole retail outlet for such malt beverages;
c.
Operate an eating establishment that may offer for sale for consumption on the premises any other alcoholic beverages produced by other manufacturers which are authorized for retail sale under this chapter, including wine, distilled spirits, and malt beverages, provided that such alcoholic beverages are purchased from a licensed wholesaler; and, provided further, that in addition to draft beer manufactured on the premises, each brew pub licensee shall offer for sale commercially available canned or bottled malt beverages from licensed wholesalers; and
d.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, sell up to a maximum of 5,000 barrels annually of such malt beverage to licensed wholesale dealers. Under no circumstances shall such malt beverages be sold by a brew pub licensee to any person holding a retail consumption dealer's license or a retailer's license for the purpose of resale;
(3)
Possession of a brew pub license shall not prevent the holder of such license from obtaining a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the package, excluding distilled spirits, for the same premises;
(4)
A brew pub license does not authorize the holder of such license to sell alcoholic beverages by the package for consumption off the premises; and
(5)
A brew pub licensee shall:
a.
Pay all state and local license fees and excise taxes applicable to individuals or persons licensed as manufacturers, retailers, and, where applicable, wholesalers under this title; and
b.
Measure malt beverages manufactured on the premises and otherwise comply with applicable rules and regulations respecting excise and enforcement tax determination of such malt beverages as required by state and local law.
(Code 1989, § 3-90; Ord. No. 373, 3-25-1996; Ord. No. 722, § 6, 3-21-2016)
Secs. 4-189—4-214. - Reserved.
