ARTICLE XII - R-IV, ESTATE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Section 1201. - Purpose and intent.
The Single-Family Residential District is intended to establish and preserve quiet, stable single-family residential neighborhoods at low densities (up to approximately 1 unit per acre) free from other uses except those which are compatible with the convenient to the residents of such a district.
Section 1202. - Permitted uses.
1.
Single-family detached dwellings not including mobile or manufactured homes.
2.
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the principal residential use of the property, including guest houses (not accessory apartments) home gardens, non-commercial greenhouses, and shelters or enclosures for household pets. Non-commercial livestock is a permitted accessory use on lots with a minimum area of three (3) acres, provided than any buildings or enclosures for the maintenance or shelter of animals shall be set back a minimum of one hundred fifty (150) feet from any property line and/or three hundred (300) feet from any surrounding or adjacent building
3.
Churches, temples, synagogues and places of worship, and their solely owned and operated customary accessory facilities, including cemeteries, provided such uses are located on a lot with a minimum area of two (2) acres, principal buildings are set back a minimum of fifty (50) feet from any property line, and parking areas are located outside of the required front yard and separated from any side or rear property line by a minimum six (6) foot high, opaque fence or wall, or a densely planted landscape strip of at least ten (10) feet in width.
4.
Parks, playgrounds, community centers, tennis courts, swimming pools, golf courses and other recreational facilities, operated on a non-profit basis.
5.
Public and semi-public buildings and uses, as defined in Article III.
6.
Schools, public elementary, middle and secondary.
7.
Schools, parochial and private offering courses in general education substantially similar to that of a public school, not offered for profit.
Section 1203. - Conditional uses.
1.
Accessory apartments, as defined in Article III, subject to compliance with Section 719.
2.
Home occupations, subject to the requirements of Section 713.
Section 1204. - Area, height, density and placement requirements.
As specified in Article XXII.
Section 1205. - Uses permitted by special use permit (SUP).
The following uses may be permitted as a Special Use provided the applicant for such use is granted a Special Use Permit by the Mayor and Council after a public hearing:
(a)
Such other uses as the Town Council determines are consistent and compatible with the uses stated in Section 1202 of this ordinance and that are consistent and compatible with and promote the goals and purposes set forth in Section 1201 of this ordinance.
