ARTICLE XV - CBD, CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT

Section 1501. - Purpose and intent.
The Central Business District is intended to provide for small businesses (less than 10,000 square feet) which reflect the best use of the downtown area of the Town. It is also intended to protect and promote the educational, cultural, and general welfare of the public through the preservation and protection of old historic, architecturally worthy structures in historic areas which exhibit a distinct aspect of the community and which serve as visible reminders of the history and cultural heritage of the community. This district assures that new structures and uses will be architecturally in keeping with the character to be preserved or enhanced.
The district is intended to protect and promote the educational, cultural, economic and general welfare of the public through the preservation and protection of the old, historic, architecturally worthy structures in historic areas or neighborhoods which exhibit a distinct aspect of the community and which serve as visible reminders of the history and cultural heritage of the community, state or nation.
This district is also intended to assure that new structures and uses within such district will be architecturally in keeping with the character to be preserved or enhanced. The goal of these provisions is to allow greater flexibility of use of existing older structures and to encourage their continued viability by permitting new structures whose design is compatible with the existing character of the district.
Special procedures for the review of building and site design and uses are recognized as essential for the establishment and maintenance of the character of the district.
Section 1502. - Permitted uses.
1.
Antique and art shops.
2.
Art galleries and museums.
3.
Art and school supply stores.
4.
Bake shops and bakeries
5.
Banks and financial institutions, including ATM, but no drive through facilities.
6.
Barber shops, beauty shops and tanning salons.
7.
Bed and breakfast establishments and Inns.
8.
Book, card or stationery stores.
9.
Clubs, lodges, fraternal institutions and other places of public assembly for groups.
10.
Clothes pressing, repair, sale and rental.
11.
Convenience food and retail stores without gasoline sales.
12.
Dressmaking, millinery, sewing and tailor shops.
13.
Drug stores, but no drive in or drive through facilities.
14.
Dry cleaners and laundromats.
15.
Electronic equipment sales.
16.
Finance, insurance and real estate establishments.
17.
Food and grocery stores.
18.
Food catering establishments.
19.
Florist shops.
20.
Gift shops.
21.
Hardware stores.
22.
Hobby shops.
23.
Ice Cream and Yogurt shops.
24.
Instructional studios.
25.
Interior decorating shops.
26.
Jewelry stores.
27.
Libraries.
28.
Locksmith shops.
29.
Music stores, instrumental or recorded music sales.
30.
Offices, business, medical, professional, and general.
31.
Photocopying and reproduction services.
32.
Photography studios.
33.
Public and semi-public uses.
34.
Residential use intended for second and third story development of buildings who's primary first floor use is related to retail or commercial service industries.
35.
Restaurants, sandwich, coffee, snack shops and cafes, but no drive in or drive through facilities.
36.
Sporting goods stores and trophy shops.
37.
Theaters and playhouses.
38.
Toy stores.
39.
Travel agencies.
40.
Watch and clock repair.
Section 1503. - Conditional uses.
1.
Loft or upper story residential dwellings. SEE Item Section 1503 item 34 Above for Application
2.
Farmers' markets, co-ops, roadside fruit or vegetable stand and other similar seasonal or temporary activity.
Section 1504. - Uses permitted by special use permit (SUP).
The following uses may be permitted as a Special Use provided the applicant for such use is granted a Special Use Permit by the Mayor and Council after a public hearing:
(a)
Such other uses as the Town Council determines are consistent and compatible with the uses stated in Section 1502 of this ordinance and that are consistent and compatible with and promote the goals and purposes set forth in Section 1501 of this ordinance.
Section 1505. - Off-street parking and loading requirements.
Off-street parking and loading shall be provided to the side or rear of the building or structure.(or where there is more than one building or structure, to the side or rear of the building closest to the right-of-way line.) All parking facilities shall be constructed of either a paved impervious material or pervious material such as gravel, pavers, etc. All parking and loading areas shall be designed in the manner that will maintain and channel storm water into the Town's drainage system. No storm water shall be allowed to impact any neighboring property.
Section 1506. - Requirements for new construction and renovations.
No construction of new structures or renovations of existing structures shall take place without review and recommendation of the Planning Commission, if established, and approval of the Alto Town Council. Prior to any requested review, compliance with the following conditions must be met. Decisions on new construction and renovations shall be made at regularly scheduled commission and council meetings or at special called meetings. All materials must be submitted according to the procedures outlined in these regulations.
Section 1506.1. - New construction requirements.
1.
A site plan drawn to scale by a registered engineer, architect, land surveyor or landscape architect shall be required for all new construction. The plan shall include the following: north arrow, lengths and bearing of all property lines, street right-of-way, proposed building site, driveways and parking and loading areas, utility locations including drainage facilities, buffers or screening to protect neighboring properties, landscaping, name of the development, name, address and telephone number of the developer(s).
2.
All exterior materials and finishes for new structures, including windows and doors, shall be those common to existing surrounding structures found within the historic district.
3.
New structures shall utilize the shapes and proportions common to those found with existing structures within the historic district. This includes the rhythm or pattern of placement of windows, doors, chimneys, gables, dormers, offsets in the walls, pitch of roof surfaces, symmetry about the ridge and overhangs.
4.
A minimum of ten (10) percent of the lot area shall be designated for open space or green space. Areas set aside for buffers, screening and landscaping may be counted towards this space.
5.
Parking areas for proposed commercial uses must be screened from any neighboring residential uses.
6.
To prevent glare visible from a public street or adjoining property, the beam of any exterior light used to illuminate a parking lot or a building or for other purposes shall be directed and shielded so as not to be visible beyond the property line.
Section 1506.2 - Requirements for renovated structures.
1.
A written plan or report shall be filed explaining and illustrating all improvements and renovations proposed to place on the existing structure(s).
2.
All exterior materials and finishes for existing structures, including windows and doors, shall be those common and as close as possible to the existing structure found within the historic district.
3.
Renovations and improvements shall utilize the shapes and proportions common to those found with the existing structure within the historic district. This includes the rhythm or pattern of placement of windows, doors, chimneys, gables, dormers, offsets in the walls, pitch of roof surfaces, symmetry about the ridge and overhangs.
4.
Parking areas for proposed commercial uses must be screen from any neighboring residential uses.
5.
To prevent glare visible from a public street or adjoining property, the beam of any exterior light used to illuminate a parking lot or a building or for other purposes shall be directed and shielded so as not to be visible beyond the property line.
Section 1507. - Requirements for demolitions or relocations.
1.
A location map of the proposed demolition or relocation.
2.
Submittal of a detailed, written report that addresses the reasons for the demolition or relocation. Such report shall include, but are not limited to: why the proposed replacement structure is more appropriate and compatible with the historic character of the district than the structure proposed for demolition or relocation; proof that there is no economically viable use of the existing structure; that the existing structure poses an imminent threat to public health or safety (this portion of the report must be performed by a licensed architect or engineer); and, the impact the proposed demolition or relocation will have on the historic district.
3.
A detailed plan or plans discussing the post-demolition or post-relocation for use of the existing site, including architectural drawings and landscaping plan.
4.
Any conditions proposed to be placed voluntarily on the replacement structure that would mitigate the loss of the contributing structure.
