ARTICLE II. - AD VALOREM TAXES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Ad valorem taxation of property, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-1 et seq.

Sec. 46-23. - Date due and payable; collection and payment; execution; levy.
(a)
All ad valorem taxes on tangible property other than motor vehicles shall be payable in two installments. Such taxes due the city and the independent school system of the city, which are levied upon tangible property other than motor vehicles, shall become due and payable on September 1 and December 20 of each year. Notice of the amount due for such respective due dates shall be mailed to each taxpayer on or about July 1 of each year for the September 1 installment and on or about October 20 of each year for the December 20 payment, shall be the equivalent of at least one-half of such taxes due upon such property for the immediately preceding year. The amount of such tax due on December 20 shall be the difference between the amount due and payable on September 1 and the total amount of such tax as levied upon said property for the then-current tax year.
(b)
Every taxpayer who shall neglect or refuse to pay such taxes by the dates upon which they are due and payable as herein provided shall be placed upon the digest as a defaulter, and the finance director shall forthwith as early as practicable issue an execution against such taxpayer for unpaid taxes, which execution shall bear teste in the name of the city council and be directed to the finance director.
(c)
Upon the issuance of the execution authorized in subsection (b) of this section, the finance director shall be authorized to add thereto the cost for recording the execution on the general execution docket of the clerk of superior court of the county and also the cost of satisfying said execution on said general execution docket, said authorized costs to be in the same amount as is charged by the clerk of superior court of the county for recording and satisfying such executions as authorized by law.
(d)
Nothing herein shall relieve any property owner who is required to make a return to the commissioner of the state department of revenue from that responsibility; nor shall anything herein abrogate or lessen the authority of said commissioner or his agent to issue execution for taxes due as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-512.
(Code 1962, § 22-13; Code 1986, § 10-23; Ord. No. O-88-11-38, 11-28-1988; Ord. No. O-96-11-49, 11-21-1996; Ord. No. O-04-12-33, 12-16-2004)
Sec. 46-24. - Insolvent tax docket; responsibility of finance committee, finance director.
It shall be the duty of the finance committee on or about April 1 of each year to thoroughly examine the tax digest and tax executions that have not been paid, with a view of ascertaining the solvency of said executions and the amount of said uncollected taxes, and to submit, in writing, a report showing the result of said examination and inquiry, together with such recommendations to the city council as to the disposition of such as may be insolvent as said committee may deem advisable. After the making of said report as herein provided, unless specific action is taken by the city council as to said insolvent executions of taxes, it shall be the duty of the finance committee to charge off said insolvent tax executions on what is known as the "insolvent tax docket," which shall be kept by the finance director.
(Code 1962, § 22-5; Code 1986, § 10-25; Ord. No. O-04-12-33, 12-16-2004)
Sec. 46-25. - Judicial in rem tax foreclosure for delinquent real property taxes.
(a)
The city shall be authorized, from and after December 1, 1995, the effective date of the ordinance from which this section is derived, to utilize the procedures provided for judicial in rem tax foreclosure as contained in O.C.G.A. § 48-4-81, said state statutes being incorporated into this section by specific reference thereto.
(b)
Such procedures may be used for the collection of any and all ad valorem taxes assessed against real property within the city that remain unpaid for a period of 12 months following the date that the taxes initially become delinquent.
(c)
Any proceedings filed in accordance with this section shall be designed solely to enforce the lien for ad valorem taxes against the property subject to taxation, and such proceedings shall not constitute an action for personal liability for such taxes against the owner of the subject property.
(d)
For the purposes of proceedings filed in superior court pursuant to this section, the city tax collector shall be defined as the finance director.
(e)
Prior to any proceeding being filed in the superior court pursuant to this section, the tax collector shall cause the city attorney to check the title to the property which is subject to the ad valorem tax levy and report to the tax collector the name of the owner of the subject property and any other interested parties as defined by state law. The city attorney shall also provide to the tax collector a legal description of the subject property.
(f)
Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the city from proceeding to collect delinquent ad valorem taxes in another manner or pursuant to another city ordinance or state statute as the methods for collection of such ad valorem taxes provided in this section are not exclusive, but are merely cumulative of the methods by which the city may collect such taxes pursuant to state law.
(Code 1986, § 10-28; Ord. No. O-95-11-37, 11-30-1995; Ord. No. O-04-12-33, 12-16-2004)
Secs. 46-26—46-53. - Reserved.
