ARTICLE IV. - JUDICIAL BRANCH
CHAPTER 1. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 4-101. - Municipal court creation; name.
There shall be a court to be known as the Municipal Court of the City of Americus.
Sec. 4-102. - Judge of municipal court.
(a)
Municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge and such part-time, full-time, or stand-by judges as shall be provided by ordinance. The method of selection and terms of such judge or judges shall be provided by this Charter.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the municipal court unless he or she shall have attained the age of 21 years, shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia, and shall have been engaged in the practice of law for at least two years prior to the date of appointment. All judges shall be appointed by the city council annually for a term beginning on January 1 of each year. Such judge or judges may be appointed to succeed themselves in the discretion of the mayor and city council.
(c)
The compensation of the judge or judges shall be fixed by ordinance.
(d)
Any judge or judges shall serve at the pleasure of the city council and may be removed by a majority vote of the members of the city council.
(e)
Before assuming office, each judge shall take an oath, given by the mayor, that he will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability and without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the city council as provided in this Charter.
Sec. 4-103. - Convening.
The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals as may be established by order of the chief judge thereof.
Sec. 4-104. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violations of this Charter, all city ordinances, and such other violations as provided by law.
(b)
The municipal court shall have the authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed a fine of $200.00 or ten days in jail.
(c)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of $1,000.00 or imprisonment for six months or both such fine and imprisonment or may fix punishment by fine, imprisonment, or alternative sentencing as now or hereafter provided by law.
(d)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and the city shall be entitled to reimbursement of the actual cost of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violation of state law.
(e)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for his appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, his bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time and an execution shall be issued thereon by serving the defendant and his sureties with a rule nisi at least two days before a hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial, and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge declared forfeited to the city, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(f)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments, and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(g)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summonses, subpoenas, and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this Charter or by law.
(h)
Each judge of the municipal court shall be authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged with offenses against any ordinance of the city, and each judge of the municipal court shall have the same authority as a magistrate of the state to issue warrants for offenses against state laws committed within the city.
(i)
The municipal court is specifically vested with all the jurisdiction and powers throughout the geographic area of this city granted by law to municipal courts and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances and prosecution of traffic violations.
(j)
Wherever, upon the trial of any case in the municipal court, it is determined by the judge that any pistol, shotgun, rifle, or other firearm has been used by the owner thereof, or with the owner's consent, illegally, and that the firearm is not needed as evidence in any other court, the judge is authorized and empowered, in his or her sole discretion, either to order the firearm impounded for a definite or indefinite time, as he or she may prescribe, or to adjudge the firearm to be a nuisance and to condemn it as such, as being opposed to the peace, good order, and safety of the city and its citizens. All firearms which are ordered impounded by the judge shall be held in safekeeping by the city police department to await the further order of the judge. In all cases in which firearms are condemned by the judge, the judge is authorized to dispose of the firearms in any manner authorized by ordinance.
(k)
Whenever, upon the trial of any case in the municipal court, it is determined by the judge that moneys or other things of value have been used, or were intended to be used, for illegal gambling purposes, then the judge of municipal court shall have the power and authority, and it shall be the judge's duty, to forfeit such moneys or things of value as being used contrary to the peace, order, and good morals of the city and shall order the same to be vested in the city, and such shall be paid to the finance director of the city by the chief of police to be placed in the general fund of the city.
(l)
A judge of the municipal court shall have the power and authority to revoke or suspend any privileged license as provided in the license and tax ordinance of the city, whenever, upon the trial of any case in the municipal court, it is determined by the judge of the court that a violation of any regulation or ordinance of the city has occurred.
(Ord. No. O-04-12-33, 12-16-2004)
Sec. 4-105. - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases and ordinance violation cases, and such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of a judge of the Superior Court of Sumter County, under the laws of the State of Georgia regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
Sec. 4-106. - Rules for court.
The judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the city council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations applicable to superior courts. The rules and regulations made or adopted shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection, and, upon request, a copy shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings.
