Chapter 54 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 54-1. - Bail bond or confinement in jail; failure to appear; forfeiture procedure; surrender of principal.
(a)
The chief of police, any police officer or the judge of the municipal court may take bond with security or bond without security or a cash bond at their discretion, payable to the city, in a sum not exceeding $1,200.00 for the appearance of any person accused or suspected of being guilty of a violation of this Code or other ordinance of the city to stand to and abide trial in the municipal court of the city, and also as a witness to testify in any case pending or about to be commenced in the municipal court.
(b)
If any party or witness shall fail or refuse to give the bond and security, as required, such person so failing or refusing may be confined in the jail of the county, to be kept under a guard, so as to be present to abide the trial or to testify, as the case may be.
(c)
All bail taken under this chapter shall be special bail, and the power of the security over the principal, shall be the same as in special bail. Upon the failure to appear of any principal in any bond or recognizance given by a person charged with a violation of this Code or any other ordinance of the city, or by witness to appear to testify, the recorder shall pass a rule requiring the principal and securities on such bond to show cause on any day therein named, not to be less than ten days from the passage of such rule why they should not be required to pay the amount of such bond.
(d)
A copy of said rule shall be served upon the principal and security by the finance director or any officer or member of the police force, if the principal is to be found in the city or within the county, at least five days before the time therein set for hearing of the same.
(e)
If no sufficient cause is shown, the municipal judge shall proceed to enter judgment against such principal and securities for the amount of said bond, and the finance director shall issue execution for the amount of such judgment and shall proceed to collect the same by levy and sale as in the case of tax executions.
(f)
Any surety upon a bail bond of any person charged with a violation of this Code or any other city ordinance, may surrender the principal at any time, to any member of the police force, who shall confine such principal in the jail of the county until discharged by the order of the municipal court, or by giving other and good security. The delivery of the principal as aforesaid, shall discharge the surety of all further liability upon such bond; provided, that such delivery shall be before any judgment of forfeiture upon said bond shall have been entered.
(Code 1962, §§ 19-2—19-5; Code 1986, §§ 8-3—8-6; Ord. No. O-03-09-23, 9-18-2003; Ord. No. O-04-12-33, 12-16-2004)
State Law reference— Authority to provide for bond forfeitures, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-4.
Sec. 54-2. - Additional penalties.
(a)
In every case in which the municipal court shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of this state, or against an ordinance of this city, there shall be imposed by the judge of the municipal court at the time of sentencing an additional penalty in the amount set by ordinance.
(b)
The sums provided for in subsection (a) of this section shall be assessed and collected by the officer or agent of the court charged with the duty of collecting monies arising from such fines, and such funds shall be paid over to the city treasury at such time as may be required by the finance director.
(c)
An amount equal to all funds remitted to the city treasury as provided for in this section for the immediately preceding calendar year shall be appropriated to fund the acquisition, maintenance, and operation of information technology equipment and services to be used in the city police department. Such funds shall be exclusively expended for such purposes, and any funds not so expended in any calendar year shall not lapse, but shall be available for use for the same purposes in the next succeeding city fiscal year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, such funds, and the information technology equipment and services for which such funds are to be expended, shall be included as items in the city police department section of the annual operating budget of the city as approved by the city council on an annual basis.
(Code 1986, § 8-9; Ord. No. O-04-03-06, 3-18-2004)
