Chapter 18 - ELECTIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.; officers generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-4; powers enumerated, O.C.G.A. § 36-24-2.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 18-1. - Adoption of state rules and regulations.
The rules and regulations promulgated by the state election board which pertain to municipal elections, together with the provisions of the Georgia Election Code, are hereby adopted as the rules, regulations, and provisions that shall govern the conduct of municipal general and special elections in the city.
(Code 1992, § 2-101)
Secs. 18-2—18-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - REGISTRATION

Sec. 18-21. - Registrars and deputy registrars.
(a)
Appointment. The city administrator or his designee shall act as registrar, whose duty it is to register qualified city voters. The registrar shall administer the oath required of voters and enter on the official voting list the name and address of the voter, provided all qualifications are met.
(b)
Deputy registrars. The city council shall appoint such deputy registrars as are necessary to assist the registrar in conducting an election. Compensation shall be as the city council deems appropriate.
(c)
Qualifications. Registrars and deputy registrars shall be electors of the municipality and shall be able to read, write, and speak the English language. Such appointees, while serving as registrars or deputy registrars or within a period of six months after so serving, shall not be eligible for any nomination or office to be voted for at a primary or election.
(d)
Oath. Prior to entering upon his duties, each registrar and deputy registrar shall swear to faithfully perform his duties, such oath to be administered by an officer authorized by law to administer the oath.
(e)
Term of office. Persons appointed to the position of registrar or deputy registrar shall serve for a term of one year and until their successors are appointed and qualified, except in the event of resignation or removal as hereinafter provided.
(f)
Powers. The registrars and deputy registrars shall exercise those powers and duties and shall be subject to such regulations as are set forth under state law.
(g)
Resignation or removal. Any registrar or deputy registrar shall have the right to resign at any time by submitting a resignation to the city council. The city council shall have the right at any time to remove one or more of such registrars for cause after notice and hearing. If any registrar resigns or is removed for cause, his duties and authority as such shall terminate instantly. In the event of death, resignation, or removal of a registrar or deputy registrar, the city council shall appoint a successor who shall serve out the unexpired term. Each such appointment shall be entered on the minutes of the city council meeting to which the appointment is made.
(Code 1992, § 2-201)
State Law reference— Registrar appointments, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-212; election officers, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-214.
Sec. 18-22. - Registration lists and records.
The city shall maintain its own registration system. The form of the registration cards shall conform to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 21-2-217. The completed registration cards and other papers of the registrars shall be kept in the main office of the board of registrars in the city hall and shall be open to public inspection during usual business hours.
(Code 1992, § 2-203)
Sec. 18-23. - Challenge of registration list.
Any elector of the municipality shall have the right to challenge the registration of any person whose name appears on the registration list in the manner set forth below.
(1)
Appeal to registrar. Any challenge of a person's right to register shall be made in the first instance to the registrar, who shall, upon hearing the evidence, decide whether to affirm or reverse the original decision.
(2)
Appeal to city council. Any person asserting a challenge under this section, or any person whose name was omitted from the registration list by the registrar, shall have the right to appeal from the decision of the registrar to the city council. If the city council should decide, after hearing the evidence of such person and that of the registrar, that the registrar erred in his decision, such body shall direct the registrar to correct the error.
(Code 1992, § 2-204)
Sec. 18-24. - Permanency of registration.
Registration of an elector will remain permanent if the elector votes in at least one election every three years. If such person does not vote in at least one general or special election or primary in a three-year period and does not specially request continuation of his registration, then the elector's name will be removed from the registration list, and he shall be required to re-register in the manner provided for original registration.
(Code 1992, § 2-205)
Sec. 18-25. - Absentee registration.
Municipalities that elect to maintain their own registration lists shall provide for absentee registration pursuant state law.
(Code 1992, § 2-206)
Sec. 18-26. - Preparation and disposition of voting lists.
As soon as possible after the registration deadline has passed, the registrar shall compile voter lists and make them available at all polling places and file an official permanent list in the city hall.
(Code 1992, § 2-207)
Sec. 18-27. - Ballots.
The registrar shall prepare and distribute the ballots.
(Code 1992, § 2-208)
Secs. 18-28—18-57. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CANDIDATES

Sec. 18-58. - Campaign financing disclosure.
All candidates for municipal public office shall keep all such records and file such reports as are required by the Georgia Campaign and Financial Disclosure Act, O.C.G.A. § 21-5-30 et seq.
(Code 1992, § 2-303)
State Law reference— Georgia Campaign and Financial Disclosure Act, O.C.G.A. § 21-5-30 et seq.
Secs. 18-59—18-89. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - VOTING

Sec. 18-90. - Polling places.
The polling place within the city shall be the city hall, or at such other locations as shall be designated by ordinance.
(Code 1992, § 2-403)
State Law reference— Polling places to be selected by governing authority of municipality, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-265.
Sec. 18-91. - Vote required for election.
Candidates for nomination for any public municipal office in any primary, and candidates for any public municipal office in any election, shall be nominated or elected by a plurality of the votes cast to fill such nomination or public office.
(Code 1992, § 2-407)
State Law reference— Vote requirements, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-501.
