Chapter 34 - PUBLIC PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS AND RECREATION CENTERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Power to provide parks, recreation areas, programs, and facilities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(5); authority of municipality to construct and operate parks, swimming pools, golf courses, recreation, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; establishment of recreation systems authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.

Sec. 34-1. - Regulations governing use of public parks and facilities.
(a)
Use of grounds and facilities in general. Each person using the public parks and grounds shall clean up all debris, extinguish all fires when such fires are permitted, and leave the premises in good order and the facilities in a neat and sanitary condition.
(b)
Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person using such parks, grounds, or facilities to either perform or permit to be performed any of the following acts:
(1)
Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, or displace or remove any buildings, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces, railings, paving or paving material, waterlines or other public utilities or parts or appurtenances thereof, signs, notices, or placards, whether temporary or permanent, monuments, stakes, posts, or other boundary markers, or other structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances whatsoever, either real or personal.
(2)
Throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay, or other body of water in or adjacent to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer, or drain flowing into such waters any substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or may result in the pollution of said waters.
(3)
Damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any tree or plant or any part thereof.
(4)
Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, chase, tease, shoot, or throw missiles at any animal, reptile, or bird; or remove or have in his possession the young of any wild animal, or the eggs, nest, or young of any other animal.
(5)
Bring in or dump, deposit, or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, refuse, or other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in or contiguous to any park, or left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be placed in the proper receptacles where these are provided; and where receptacles are not so provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for the presence of same, and properly disposed of elsewhere.
(6)
Disturb the peace, or use any profane or obscene language.
(7)
Endanger the safety of any person by any conduct or act.
(8)
Commit any assault or battery, or engage in fighting.
(9)
Carry, possess, or drink any alcoholic beverage in the park.
(10)
Violate any rule made or approved by the park and recreation board for the use of the park.
(11)
Prevent any person from using any park, or any of its facilities, or interfere with such use in compliance with this section and with the rules applicable to such use.
(12)
Swim, bathe, or wade in any waters or waterways in or adjacent to any park, except in such waters and at such places as are provided therefor, and in compliance with such regulations as are herein set forth or may be hereafter adopted.
(13)
Dress or undress on any beach, or in any vehicle, toilet, or other place, except in such bathing houses or structures as may be provided for that purpose.
(Code 1992, § 23-101)
