Chapter 70 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The city has entered into an agreement with the Solid Waste Management Authority of Crisp County regarding the collection, hauling and disposal of solid waste within the city. A copy of the agreement, which is dated July 26, 1996, is on file in the city clerk's office.
Cross reference— Disposition of dead rabid animals, § 14-179; buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 38; health and sanitation, ch. 50; utilities, ch. 86.
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local, multijurisdictional and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; scrap tire disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1; yard trimmings disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.2; Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-60 et seq.; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries without permission, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249; transportation of biomedical waste, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-253.1; solid waste management education program, establishment of Georgia Clean and Beautiful Advisory Committee and Interagency Council on Solid Waste Management, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-7.3; authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 70-1—70-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SOLID WASTE ORDINANCE

Sec. 70-31. - Definitions.
For the purpose of these regulations the following words and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
Collector means a person who under formal agreement, verbal or written, with or without remuneration, does the work of collecting and/or hauling solid wastes.
Disposal area means the designated public landfill.
Garbage means food waste, including waste accumulation of animal or vegetable matter used for or intended for food, or that attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or storing of meat, fowl, fruit, or vegetables.
Hazardous waste means material in a solid or semi-solid state resulting from the manufacture or use of pesticides or drugs other than normal household use, pathological wastes, chemical wastes, flammable or explosive material, and similar waste material in a solid or semi-solid state, that the administrative officer may consider a likely hazard to the public health or safety, except radioactive waste materials, as provided in the rules of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources—Rules and Regulations of Solid Waste Management, Chapter 391-1-1.
Industrial waste or industrial solid waste means the solid waste materials from factories, processing plants, and manufacturing enterprises, and including food processing wastes, meat and poultry processing wastes, condemned food, ashes and cinders from power plants, agriculture products wastes, land clearance wastes, and similar wastes.
Premises means land, buildings, or other structures, vehicles, water craft, or parts thereof, upon or in which solid waste is stored.
Rubbish means a variety of combustible waste not subject to rapid decomposition derived from places of residence, commercial areas, and institutions and shall include paper, rags, plastics, cartons, boxes, tree and yard trimmings, furniture, appliances, metals, minerals, cans, bottles, glass, crockery, excelsior, bedding, rubber, discarded clothing, and similar materials.
Scavenging means uncontrolled picking from discarded solid waste materials.
Solid waste means putrescible and nonputrescible waste, except human body waste, and including garbage, rubbish, paper, cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture, appliances, metals, tin cans, glass, crockery, tunnage, ashes, street refuse, dead animals, waste materials generated in industrial operations, residue incineration, food processing wastes, demolition wastes, construction wastes, and any other wastes in a solid or semi-solid state not defined in this section.
Waste means unwanted or discarded material except human body waste.
Sec. 70-32. - Service established.
The city council, in order to protect the health and safety of the people in the city, authorizes and directs the city manager, by implementing and enforcing the provisions of these regulations, to control the storage, collection, and disposal of solid waste in the city. The city manager, with approval of the mayor and city council, may plan, procure equipment and personnel, and manage a publicly owned and operated solid waste collection and disposal service and/or establish criteria for the evaluation of private collection and disposal services, and may make recommendations to the mayor and council regarding contracts for solid waste collection and/or disposal site owners and/or operation of public or private solid waste collection and/or disposal systems, methods, and sites.
Sec. 70-33. - Functions of the mayor and city council.
Collection, transportation, and disposal of solid waste shall be under the supervision and control of the mayor and city council. The mayor and city council shall have authority to establish routes and days of collection, types and locations of solid waste storage containers, and such other matters pertaining to collection, transportation, and disposal of solid waste as they may find necessary and to change and modify the same after notice as required by law, provided such measures are not contrary to the provisions of these regulations.
Sec. 70-34. - Appeals.
Any person aggrieved by a requirement of or fee charged for any city utilities services shall have the right of appeal to the city council which may confirm, modify, or revoke any such requirement or fee.
Sec. 70-35. - Containers.
(a)
All garbage, ashes, and rubbish shall be placed in a container. Such container shall be provided by the customer and shall be approved by the city.
(b)
Containers failing to comply with these provisions or with sharp or jagged edges or with defects liable to hamper or injure the person collecting the contents thereof shall be promptly replaced.
(c)
Disposable paper or plastic bags of a type, size, and material designed for solid waste storage and disposal shall be used to contain garbage and rubbish for storage and collection. Disposal bags shall be unbroken and securely sealed and loaded in a manner that normal handling will not cause the bag to open.
Sec. 70-36. - Pre-collection practices.
Garbage and rubbish shall be drained of excess liquid before being placed for collection.
Sec. 70-37. - Waste storage.
(a)
No person shall place any solid waste in any street, public place, roadway, or private premises except when it is in proper containers for collection or under the express prior approval of the mayor and city council. No person shall place any solid waste in any stream, lake, or other body of water.
(b)
Any unauthorized accumulation of solid waste on any premises is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. Failure to remove any existing accumulation of solid waste within such reasonable time as may be fixed by written notice of the city manager shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and may be abated as provided in section 70-33, hereof.
Sec. 70-38. - Scavenging.
No person other than the owner thereof, an agent or employee of the city, or any employee of a person holding a contract with the city for collection of solid waste shall interfere with any container placed for the purpose of storing solid waste pending collection, or remove or take any of the contents thereof, or remove any such container from the location where same shall have been placed by the owner thereof.
Sec. 70-39. - Pick-up schedule.
(a)
In residential and commercial areas not more than ten days and not less than seven days shall elapse between one collection and the next, and routes of collection shall be arranged so that collections shall be made on the same day of each succeeding week.
(b)
Collections shall not be made on city holidays as named in the City Code of Ordinances, unless otherwise specified by the city manager.
Sec. 70-40. - Private collectors—License required.
No person shall contract for the collection, transportation, or disposal of solid waste who does not possess a current license for such business operation in the city. Applications for licenses shall be written and shall be considered after evidence has been presented to show that the applicant has received a current permit, appropriate to the type of business concerned, as required under Solid Waste Regulations of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources—Rules and Regulations for Solid Waste Management, Chapter 391-1-1.
Sec. 70-41. - Same—Contract collectors.
(a)
Subject to city council approval, any person may contract with the city to engage in the business of collecting, transporting, or disposing of solid waste, provided such persons have applied for and obtained an appropriate solid waste permit in accordance with regulations of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources Rules and Regulations for Solid Waste Management, Chapter 391-1-1.
(b)
Persons contracting for solid waste collection shall, before engaging in such business, be licensed by the city and shall conform to all regulations providing for safe and sanitary collection and transportation of waste to a point of disposal, and shall execute a bond to the city in the sum of not less than $25,000.00 with a responsible surety company duly authorized to do business in the state, to be approved by the city council, which shall establish conditions for the full and faithful performance of all agreements and covenants in such contract.
Sec. 70-42. - Cleanliness of vehicles; construction, covering, etc.
Vehicles to be used on streets and roadways for solid waste collection, transportation, or disposal shall be kept clean and shall be certified in regard to highway safety by the Motor Vehicle Division of the Georgia Department of Public Safety. Such vehicle bodies shall be in good condition and repair, covered and constructed in such manner that the contents thereof cannot be spilled, leaked, or blown from the vehicle. The outside of the body shall be painted and identified by the name, telephone number, and permit of the person owning the collection business in letters and numbers not less than three inches high and easily legible.
Sec. 70-43. - Solid waste classified for disposal.
(a)
Acceptable solid waste: The following classes of solid waste shall be acceptable for disposal at publicly owned and operated disposal sites.
(1)
Garbage, as defined in section 70-31 hereof.
(2)
Ashes, the residue from burning of combustible materials for fuel.
(3)
Rubbish, as defined in section 70-31 hereof.
(b)
Unacceptable solid waste: The following classes of solid waste shall not be acceptable for disposal at public expense on publicly owned and operated disposal sites:
(1)
Limbs, cuttings, and other yard trimmings not in the container normally used for the normal and ordinary collection of solid waste by the household.
(2)
Building waste, large quantities of materials resulting from the construction of demolition of building, such as plaster, mortar, broken masonry, scrap lumber, roofing, or similar materials.
(3)
Industrial waste, solid or semi-solid waste resulting from industrial processes.
(4)
Dead animals over 30 pounds.
(5)
Hazardous waste as defined in section 20 hereof.
Sec. 70-44. - Private disposal sites—Permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or permit to be deposited on land under such person's ownership and control any solid waste without having first obtained a disposal area permit as required by regulations of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources—Rules and Regulations for Solid Waste Management, Chapter 391-1-1.
Sec. 70-45. - Same—Inspection.
The mayor or an authorized representative of the state department of natural resources shall be permitted to enter private disposal sites at any time during normal business hours for free and unhindered inspections to determine compliance with these and all other pertinent laws and regulations.
Sec. 70-46. - Service charges.
(a)
The City Council of the City of Ashburn shall adopt from time to time a fee for residential and commercial customers.
(b)
The owner or occupant of each residential or commercial unit shall be billed for the fee collected under this article. The occupant shall be billed monthly by the city showing the amount due and payable. The bill for solid waste services, together with the bill for other utility services, shall constitute the utilities bill for the city.
