CHAPTER 9-1. - PREAMBLE, PURPOSE, AND REPEALER CLAUSE
Sec. 9-1-1. Preamble.
Sec. 9-1-2. Purpose.
Sec. 9-1-3. Short title.
Sec. 9-1-4. Enactment and effect.
Sec. 9-1-5. Repealer.
Sec. 9-1-6. Severability.
Sec. 9-1-7. Effective date.

Sec. 9-1-1. - Preamble.
This article establishes comprehensive zoning regulations for Athens-Clarke County, Georgia.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1)
Sec. 9-1-2. - Purpose.
Pursuant to the 1983 Constitution of the State of Georgia, Article IX, Section II, Paragraph IV, the mayor and commission of Athens-Clarke County hereby enact into law the following zoning ordinance of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, for the purposes of promoting the health, safety and general welfare of the present and future inhabitants of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia; improving Athens-Clarke County's appearance; lessening congestion in the streets; furthering traffic safety; securing safety from fire, panic and other dangers; providing adequate light and air; preventing the overcrowding of land; avoiding both undue concentration of population and urban sprawl; facilitating the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements; protecting property against blight and depreciation; encouraging the most appropriate use of land, buildings and other structures throughout Athens-Clarke County; securing economy in government expenditures; and for other purposes, all in accordance with the adopted Comprehensive Plan, dated June 1999, as amended July 2008, and as amended from time to time, pursuant to the Official Code of Georgia, Title 36, Chapter 70, Article I.
In recognition of the changing needs and dynamic economy of a growing community, the mayor and commission of Athens-Clarke County finds that periodic updates of this zoning ordinance will be necessary to maintain a proper relationship between the provisions of the article and various community plans. In order to fulfill the above-stated purposes to the best of its abilities, the Athens-Clarke County Commission commits not only to the enforcement of this zoning ordinance, but to its maintenance and updating as the community's normal planning and review process may dictate.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1; Ord. of 11-7-2012, § 1)
Sec. 9-1-3. - Short title.
This article shall be known as "The Zoning Ordinance of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia."
Sec. 9-1-4. - Enactment and effect.
A.
This title, and its provisions, shall apply to all applications received on or after its effective date. Any application received prior to its effective date shall be processed under the provisions of any ordinances in effect on the date that the application was received and deemed complete. However, for any application pending at the time of the effective date of this title, the Athens-Clarke County Planning Director will change the zoning classification applied for to the most appropriate zoning classification under the new ordinance based on a comparison of the permitted uses associated with the two zoning classifications.
B.
Structure permit. Nothing contained in this title shall require any change in plans, construction, alteration, or designated use of a structure for which a complete application for a building permit has been filed with the appropriate Athens-Clarke County authorities prior to the effective date of this title.
C.
Any preliminary plat for a subdivision approved prior to the effective date of this title will be null and void 18 months following the effective date of this title, unless approval of a final plat for any portion of the subdivision is secured.
D.
Any planned development approved prior to the effective date of this title will be subject to prompt rezoning by Athens-Clarke County two years following the effective date of this title pursuant to section 9-14-4. Athens-Clarke County will make application to rezone the subject property to the underlying zoning classification of the planned development or to another appropriate zoning classification, unless a building permit has been obtained for any portion of the approved planned development.
E.
The conditions for approval of any rezoning, variance, or conditional use approved by the commission under any prior ordinance shall remain in full force and effect and enforceable under the procedures of this title.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1; Ord. of 11-6-2002, § 1)
Sec. 9-1-5. - Repealer.
Upon the effective date of this title, that certain ordinance known as "The Zoning Ordinance of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia," 1992, as amended, shall be expressly repealed. There is expressly saved from repeal the following:
A.
Except for the zoning classifications provided for therein, all binding zoning master site plans, binding zoning master plan reports and binding conditions of zoning associated with all planned developments existing prior to the date of adoption of this title and indicated on the official zoning map;
B.
Except for the zoning classifications provided for therein, all binding site plans, binding written reports and binding conditions of zoning associated with conditional uses existing prior to the date of adoption of this title and indicated on the official zoning map;
C.
Except for the zoning classifications provided for therein, all binding conditions of zoning contained in ordinances rezoning certain parcels of land existing prior to the adoption of this title and indicated on the official zoning map;
D.
The "Protected Environmental Areas" ordinance, chapter 8-6;
E.
The "Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control" ordinance, chapter 8-3 of the Athens-Clarke County Code;
F.
The "Floodplain Protection" ordinance, chapter 8-2 of the Athens-Clarke County Code;
G.
All chapters in title 7 ("Buildings and Construction") of the Athens-Clarke County Code; and
H.
The "Stormwater Management Ordinance," chapter 5-4 of the Athens-Clarke County Code.
Except as expressly repealed or expressly saved from repeal herein, all ordinances and parts thereof in conflict with this title are hereby repealed.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1)
Sec. 9-1-6. - Severability.
In the event any one or more of the provisions of this title shall for any reason be held to be illegal or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, it is the intention of the mayor and commission of Athens-Clarke County that such illegality or invalidity shall not affect any other provision hereof, but this title shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal or invalid provision had not been contained herein.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1)
Sec. 9-1-7. - Effective date.
This title shall become effective after adoption upon signature by the mayor pursuant to the provisions of the Charter of Athens-Clarke County section 2-204.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1)
