CHAPTER 3-8. - AMUSEMENT DEVICES[7]
Sec. 3-8-1. Definition.
Sec. 3-8-2. Alcoholic beverages.
Sec. 3-8-3. Age and time restrictions.
Sec. 3-8-4. Posting of requirements.

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Charter reference— Power of Athens-Clarke County to levy, assess and collect occupational and business taxes, § 8-114(3).
Cross reference— Business license tax generally, Ch. 6-1; license for amusement devices, § 6-1-22.
State Law reference— Replays on coin-operated devices, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35.

Sec. 3-8-1. - Definition.
As used in this chapter, the term "amusement machine" shall mean a coin-operated machine or device which, whether mechanical, electrical or electronic, shall be ready for play by the insertion of a coin and may be operated by the public for use as a game, entertainment or amusement, the object of which is to achieve either a high or low score, which, by comparison to the score of other players whether playing concurrently or not, demonstrates relative skill or competence, or indicates in any other way competitive advantage of one player or team over another, regardless of skill or competence. It shall include devices such as pinball machines or any device which utilizes a video tube to reproduce symbolic figures and lines intended to be representative of real games or activities. The term "amusement machines" does not include vending machines in which are not incorporated gaming or amusement features, nor does the term include any coin-operated mechanical musical device.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 3)
Sec. 3-8-2. - Alcoholic beverages.
The sale, use, consumption or possession of alcoholic beverages is prohibited on those premises of any establishment having amusement machines unless the establishment has an alcoholic beverage license issued by Athens-Clarke County.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 3)
Sec. 3-8-3. - Age and time restrictions.
(a)
Use of amusement machines by persons under the age of 16 years shall not be permitted during normal school hours on any day Clarke County schools are in session.
(b)
No person under the age of 16 years shall be allowed to operate any amusement machine after the hour of 11:00 p.m.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 3)
Sec. 3-8-4. - Posting of requirements.
Readily visible signs shall be posted indicating that the use of amusement machines by persons under 16 years of age shall not be permitted during the normal school hours and after the hour of 11:00 p.m.
(Ord. of 4-7-92, § 3)
