ARTICLE IV. - ADMINISTRATION
Chapter 1. Officers
Section 4-101. Manager; appointment; qualifications; compensation.
Section 4-102. Manager; powers and duties.
Section 4-103. Attorney; appointment; term; qualifications; duties; compensation.
Section 4-104. Internal auditor; appointment; term; duties; qualifications; compensation.
Section 4-105. Sheriff.
Section 4-106. Judge of the Probate Court.
Section 4-107. Clerk of Superior Court.
Section 4-108. Tax commissioner.
Section 4-109. Coroner.
Section 4-110. Clerk of commission; duties.
Chapter 2. Administrative and Service Departments
Section 4-201. Creation and functions; generally.
Section 4-202. Administrative reorganization.
Section 4-203. Appointment of directors of departments.
Section 4-204. Departments under state law.
Chapter 3. Merit System of Personnel Administration
Section 4-301. Establishment of merit system.
Chapter 4. Boards, Commissions and Authorities
Section 4-401. Certain boards, commissions and authorities continued.
CHAPTER 1. - OFFICERS

Section 4-101. - Manager; appointment; qualifications; compensation.
(a)
The manager shall be the full-time administrative officer of the unified government. The manager shall be recommended by the Mayor and confirmed by a majority vote of the entire Commission on or before the first voting meeting in June of the year the term expires with the appointment to be effective July 1 of said year; shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years, beginning on July 1, 2009, except that the existing term of the Manager which expires on March 31, 2009 shall be extended through June 30, 2009; may succeed himself or herself; and at any time may be removed from office by a majority vote of the entire Commission. Whenever the office of the Manager is vacant, the Mayor may recommend a person to serve as acting Manager for the remainder of the term of office of the Manager or until a new Manager is appointed, whichever event occurs first, subject to approval by a majority vote of the entire Commission and subject to reappointment thereafter. The acting Manager at any time may be removed by a majority vote of the entire Commission.
(b)
No person holding an elective office in Athens-Clarke County shall be eligible for appointment until two (2) years after leaving elective office. The manager shall be prohibited from engaging in any political activity, and the manager shall not be eligible to qualify as a candidate for an elective office in Athens-Clarke County for one (1) year after leaving office. The manager need not be a resident of Athens-Clarke County at the time of his or her appointment but shall establish residence therein within six (6) months of such appointment and continue to reside therein throughout such appointment.
(c)
The qualifications and compensation of the manager shall be fixed by ordinance.
(Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1; Ord. of 12-4-2001, § 4; Ord. of 10-5-2004, § 1; Ord. of 5-6-2008, § 1)
Section 4-102. - Manager; powers and duties.
(a)
The manager shall be responsible for:
(1)
The management and coordination of the operations and activities of the various departments and agencies of the unified government;
(2)
The appointment and removal of department heads;
(3)
The preparation of the proposed annual budget with the assistance of all department heads for approval by the mayor;
(4)
Keeping the commission at all times fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the unified government;
(5)
Conducting studies and investigations and making reports thereon to the commission concerning the operations of the departments, offices and agencies of the unified government;
(6)
Requiring any department, board, commission or agency under the manager's jurisdiction to submit written reports and to provide other information deemed necessary;
(7)
Prescribing, requiring, publishing and implementing standards of administrative, management, and operating practices and procedures to be followed and adhered to by all offices, departments, boards, commissions, authorities and other agencies of the unified government which are subject to the manager's supervision and jurisdiction;
(8)
Acting as the purchasing agent of Athens-Clarke County as provided for in section 8-105 of this Charter.
(b)
Except for the purpose of inquiry and investigation, the mayor and commission shall deal with employees of the unified government who are subject to appointment and removal by the manager solely through the manager and shall not give orders or directions to any such employee, either publicly or privately, directly or indirectly.
(Ord. of 12-5-91, § 6; Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1; Ord. of 7-5-2000, § 2)
Section 4-103. - Attorney; appointment; term; qualifications; duties; compensation.
(a)
The Mayor shall make nonbinding recommendations to the Commission for the "attorney" of the unified government (referred to at times in this Charter as the "attorney"). The attorney shall be appointed by a majority vote of the entire Commission on or before the first voting meeting in June of the year the term expires with the appointment to be effective July 1 of said year; shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years, beginning on July 1, 2009, except that the existing term of the attorney which expires on March 31, 2009 shall be extended through June 30, 2009; may succeed himself or herself; and at any time may be removed by a majority vote of the entire Commission.
(b)
The attorney shall be an active member of the State Bar of Georgia in good standing and shall satisfy any other qualifications established by ordinance.
(c)
The attorney shall be the legal counsel to the unified government and shall perform such other duties as may be required by this Charter or by ordinance.
(d)
The compensation of the attorney shall be as prescribed by a duly adopted ordinance.
(Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1; Ord. of 10-5-2004, § 2; Ord. of 5-6-2008, § 2)
Sec. 4-104. - Internal auditor; appointment; term; duties; qualifications; compensation.
(a)
The Mayor shall make nonbinding recommendations to the Commission for the "internal auditor" of the unified government (referred to at times in this Charter as the "internal auditor"). The internal auditor shall be appointed by a majority vote of the entire Commission on or before the first voting meeting in June of the year the term expires with the appointment to be effective July 1 of said year; shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years, beginning on July 1, 2009; may succeed himself or herself; and at any time may be removed by a majority vote of the entire Commission.
(b)
The qualifications, duties and compensation of the internal auditor shall be as prescribed in a duly adopted ordinance.
(Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1; Ord. of 10-5-2004, § 3; Ord. of 5-6-2008, § 3; Ord. of 4-7-2015(1) , § 1)
Section 4-105. - Sheriff.
The sheriff of Clarke County in office on the effective date of this Charter shall be the Sheriff of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia. The sheriff shall serve for the same term as provided by law, and the compensation shall be fixed as provided by law. Subsequent elections for sheriff shall be on the same basis as provided by law for the election of sheriffs generally. The sheriff shall be responsible for the operation of the jail, the transport of prisoners, the service of process and such other duties being provided on the effective date of this Charter. The sheriff shall have such other or different powers and duties as provided by the constitution and laws of Georgia.
Section 4-106. - Judge of the Probate Court.
The judge of the Probate Court of Clarke County in office on the effective date of this Charter shall be the judge of the Probate Court of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia. The judge of Probate Court of Athens-Clarke County shall serve for the same term as provided by law, and the compensation shall be fixed as provided by law. Subsequent elections for the judge of the Probate Court shall be on the same basis as provided by law for the election of probate judges generally. The judge of the Probate Court shall perform the same duties and exercise the same powers as conferred on probate judges generally by the constitution and laws of Georgia.
Section 4-107. - Clerk of Superior Court.
The clerk of Superior Court of Clarke County in office on the effective date of this Charter shall be the clerk of Superior Court of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia. The clerk of Superior Court shall serve for the same term as provided by law, and the compensation shall be fixed as provided by law. Subsequent elections for the clerk of Superior Court shall be on the same basis as provided by law for the election of clerks of superior court[s] generally. The clerk of Superior Court shall perform the same duties and exercise the same powers as conferred on clerks of superior court[s] generally by the constitution and laws of Georgia.
Section 4-108. - Tax commissioner.
The tax commissioner of Clarke County in office on the effective date of this Charter shall be the tax commissioner of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia. The tax commissioner shall serve for the same term as provided by law, and the compensation shall be fixed as provided by law. Subsequent elections for tax commissioner shall be on the same basis as provided by law for the election of tax commissioners generally. The tax commissioner shall perform the same duties and exercise the same powers as conferred on tax commissioners generally by the constitution and laws of Georgia.
Section 4-109. - Coroner.
The coroner of Clarke County in office on the effective date of this Charter shall be the Coroner of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia. The coroner shall serve for the same term as provided by law, and compensation shall be fixed as provided by law. Subsequent elections for coroner shall be on the same basis as provided by law for the election of coroners generally. The coroner shall perform the same duties and exercise the same powers as conferred on coroners generally by the constitution and laws of Georgia.
Section 4-110. - Clerk of commission; duties.
The clerk of commission shall be responsible for:
(1)
Maintaining all required records of the operations and activities of Athens-Clarke County, including the minutes of all meetings of the Athens-Clarke County Commission;
(2)
Certify[ing] ordinances upon adoption for presentation to the mayor for approval or veto and certify to the authenticity of ordinances which have become law;
(3)
Attesting the mayor's signature on deeds, contracts, agreements and any other obligations on the part of government and the signature of any other officer pursuant to section 7-501 on any such document;
(4)
Keep[ing] and affix[ing] the seal;
(5)
Providing administrative support to the commission, the mayor and the manager of Athens-Clarke County and to carry out such other duties as may be directed by the commission.
(Ord. of 12-5-91, § 8; Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1; Ord. of 7-5-2000, § 3; Ord. of 12-4-2001, § 5)
CHAPTER 2. - ADMINISTRATIVE AND SERVICE DEPARTMENTS

Section 4-201. - Creation and functions; generally.
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by law, the administrative and service departments of the unified government shall be created and established by ordinance and shall perform such functions, duties, services and responsibilities as enumerated therein and as prescribed by administrative regulations.
Section 4-202. - Administrative reorganization.
The commission may, by ordinance, reorganize, combine, consolidate or discontinue any department or agency of the unified government subject to the jurisdiction of the commission and may, by ordinance, prescribe the functions and duties thereof and may establish, abolish or alter all nonelective offices and positions of employment as necessary for the proper administration of the unified government.
Section 4-203. - Appointment of directors of departments.
All directors of departments under the supervision and direction of the manager shall be appointed by the manager. The directors of all such departments shall serve at the pleasure of the manager.
Section 4-204. - Departments under state law.
All departments, which are created pursuant to state or federal law and which administer various state and federal programs and services, shall continue their operations without interruption resulting from the adoption of this Charter.
CHAPTER 3. - MERIT SYSTEM OF PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION

Section 4-301. - Establishment of merit system.
(a)
The commission shall establish, by ordinance, a merit system of personnel administration for Athens-Clarke County, Georgia. All positions in the service of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, shall be in the classified (merit system) service except the following which are declared to be in the unclassified service:
(1)
Officers elected by the people and persons appointed to fill vacancies in elective offices;
(2)
Members of boards and commissions;
(3)
Directors of departments;
(4)
Persons temporarily employed in a professional or scientific capacity or to conduct a special inquiry, investigation, examination or installation;
(5)
Temporary and part-time employees; and
(6)
The clerk of commission and such other employees as may be excluded from coverage under the merit system as provided by ordinance or other applicable law.
(b)
The merit system of personnel administration shall provide for classification of positions, the manner and method of publicizing vacancies, employing and appointing personnel, the qualifications of employees, employee performance evaluations, salaries, hours of employment, vacations, sick leave, special workers' compensation, job security, promotion, demotion, disciplinary procedures, transfer, layoff, removal, welfare of employees, retirement policy, payment of premiums of employee insurance benefits, grievance procedures, service awards, training leave and any other measures that promote the hiring and retaining of capable, diligent and honest career employees, all of which shall be in accordance with the concept of affirmative action as provided by federal law.
(c)
For employees hired after July 1, 2002, whether to continue to offer a program of health care benefits, the nature and structure of such a program, the benefits provided in such a program, and the premiums to be paid by employees for their participation or the participation of their families or dependents, if offered, shall be subject to change from time to time in the sound discretion of the mayor and commission.
(Ord. of 12-4-2001, § 6; Ord. of 6-4-2002, § 1)
CHAPTER 4. - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES

Section 4-401. - Certain boards, commissions and authorities continued.
All existing boards, commissions and authorities are continued without interruption on the effective date of this Charter. As used in the acts and amendments creating the existing boards, commissions and authorities, the terms Athens City Council and Clarke County Board of Commissioners shall mean the commission of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, and the terms mayor of the City of Athens and chairman of the Clarke County Board of Commissioners shall mean the mayor of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia.
(Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1)
