CHAPTER 9-2. - DEFINITIONS
Sec. 9-2-1. General.

Sec. 9-2-1. - General.
For the purpose of this title, those certain words and terms defined herein shall be defined and interpreted as follows. All other words and terms not expressly defined herein shall have their general meaning, as interpreted by the planning director. Appeals of staff interpretations of this title shall be heard as a Type IV Procedure.
24-hour distribution center: A distribution facility, frequented by one or more trucks a week between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
Acceleration/deceleration: One or more paved traffic lanes traversing the frontage of a property for the purpose of allowing traffic to accelerate or decelerate outside of higher speed traffic lanes.
Access: The ability and right to enter a property.
Accessory dwelling unit: A detached residential unit, other than a Class "A" or Class "B" manufactured home, designed for one family only. The structure must be accessory and subordinate to a single-family dwelling (see definition of "dwelling, single-family"), and conform to the standards for the district in which it is located.
Accessory structure: A structure on the same lot with, and of a size and nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure. Examples of accessory structures include, but are not limited to, the following: detached garages and/or carports; storage structures and/or barns; freestanding greenhouses; aboveground swimming pools and pool houses; tennis courts; satellite dish antennas; freestanding workshops; freestanding decks and gazebos; radio and/or TV antenna structures not attached to the principal structure; paved areas other than driveways and walkways; and property identification signs not associated with or attached to a mailbox.
Accessory use: A use on the same lot with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use.
Active recreation space: A common area designated on the final plans of a development that is set aside for leisure activities that are usually formal in nature and intended for group participation. Such activities typically require equipment and take place at prescribed places, sites, or fields, including, but not limited to, swimming pools, tennis, volleyball, and basketball courts, and baseball, soccer, or other playing fields. Areas with slopes greater than five percent, wetlands, stormwater detention areas, and/or dense vegetation are not suitable for use as active recreation areas.
Administrative or research facilities: A facility used for the management of an enterprise or research and development activities such as improving technologies, developing products and scientific research.
Advertising sign (billboard): Any structure or portion thereof on which lettered, figured, or pictorial matter is displayed for advertising purposes, except for the name and occupation of the user of the premises or the products primarily sold or manufactured on the premises or noncommercial messages, and having an area of 100 square feet or more. Any signboard carrying a message excepted in this definition which also carries extraneous advertising of 100 square feet or more shall be considered a billboard.
Agricultural structures: Structures intended primarily or exclusively for support of an agricultural function, and exemplified by, but not restricted to, barns, silos, water towers, windmills, greenhouses.
Agriculture: The production, raising, breeding or maintenance of plants and animals including, but not limited to: forage and sod crops; grain and seed crops; dairy animals and dairy products; poultry and poultry products; livestock, including beef cattle, sheep, swine, horses, or goats, game animals, exotics, fish, and any mutations or hybrids thereof, including the breeding and grazing of any or all such species; bees and apiary products; fur animals; trees and forest products; fruits of all kinds, including grapes, nuts, and berries; vegetables; nurseries; florals; ornamental and greenhouse products; or lands devoted to a soil conservation or forestry management program. This does not include the commercial slaughter of poultry, livestock, or other animals. Nothing herein shall preclude any person from growing, maintaining or harvesting trees, fruits, vegetables, or florals or other ornamental plants, or the keeping of bees or fish, or the keeping of chickens in accordance with the provisions of Section 9-15-25 as accessory uses to a permitted principal use and for only non-commercial purposes on property in a zoning district in which agriculture is prohibited.
Alley: A narrow street, 20 feet or less in width, through a block primarily for vehicular service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on another street.
Alter: To modify or change, generally without creating something entirely different.
Apartment, studio or efficiency: One room which is designed or intended for occupancy by, or which is occupied by, one family doing its cooking therein or by one or more related persons doing their or their own cooking therein. For zoning purposes, a studio or efficiency apartment shall be regarded as a dwelling unit and a structure containing three or more such apartments shall be regarded as a multiple dwelling.
Architectural projection: Eaves, decorative extensions, bay windows having no floor space, or other portions of a structure having no living space nor key structural value.
Athens-Clarke County: The Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County.
Athens-Clarke County Facility: A public service or facility provided, owned and controlled by Athens-Clarke County.
Attached single-family: See "dwelling, single-family attached."
Auto wrecking yards: See "junk yards, salvage yards, and auto wrecking yards."
Automobile and RV sales: A structure and/or lot dedicated to the retail sale of new or used motor vehicles.
Bakery: A place for baking or selling baked goods.
Bar: An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption by guests on the premises and in which the serving of food is only incidental to the consumption of those beverages, including, but not limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail lounges, and cabarets.
Basal area: The combined cross-sectional area of the trunks of all trees on an acre at 4.5 feet above the ground.
Basic utilities: Infrastructure services and the structures necessary to provide those services including electricity, natural gas, telephone, water, or sewer. The gross area of these services and associated structures shall not exceed 5,000 square feet. Telecommunications towers, or any structure associated with the operation of a telecommunications tower, are not included under this definition.
Battery exchange station: A facility where an electric vehicle with a swappable battery can enter and exchange its depleted battery with a fully charged battery through a fully automated process.
Bed and breakfast facilities: A detached dwelling in which rooms are rented to transient guests on an overnight basis. No more than 15 bedrooms may be rented on an overnight basis and no more than 30 guests are allowed at one time. Meals may be served only to overnight guests. Additionally, such facilities must meet the criteria outlined in this title.
Bedroom: Any room other than a living room, family room, dining room, kitchen, bathroom, closets, or utility room, for the purpose of this title, shall be considered a bedroom. Dens, studies, etc. with or without closets and similar areas which may be used as bedrooms shall be counted as bedrooms for the purposes of this title.
Block: The land surrounded by streets and other right-of-way other than an alley, or land which is designated as a block on any recorded subdivision map.
Board: The hearings board of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia.
Boarding house or rooming house: Any residential structure, supervised or not, used as living and sleeping arrangements for more than four unrelated individuals and up to 15 for periods of one week or more. Tenants may share the common areas of the home and provision for meals may be made, provided cooking is done in a central kitchen and not in individual rooms or suites. For purposes of zoning, a rooming and boarding house shall not be a fraternity or sorority house. If the accommodations are for more than 15 persons, see "dormitory." The landlord shall not provide supervision of person, supervision of medications, assistance with activities of daily living, or nursing services. Otherwise, the home would fall under the requirements for a personal care home or community living arrangement and require a permit by the State of Georgia.
Bottling plant: A manufacturing facility for the bottling of liquids such as water, soft drinks, wine, beer, etc.
Breezeway: A roofed passageway for the purpose of connecting the principal structure to another building or structure.
Broadcasting or production studios: A structure designed for making and transmitting programs for radio or television or for the production/editing of films, videos, commercials, etc.
Buildable area: The portion of a lot remaining and available for construction of a structure or related facilities after required setbacks, yards, and buffers have been provided. Buildable area cannot contain any setback areas, easements, and similar building restrictions, and cannot contain any land that is identified as floodplain areas, riparian buffer areas, except as otherwise provided in this title.
Building envelope: An area within the property boundaries of a lot or space within which a permitted manufactured housing or structure can be placed.
Building official: The official appointed by the Athens-Clarke County Manager and charged with the responsibility of permit and certificate of occupancy issuance.
Business or trade school: A secondary school offering instruction in a professional, vocational, or technical field.
Business sign: An identification sign containing the name of the business or other accessory information located on the same premises.
Caretaker quarters: A dwelling unit which houses an individual or family who is employed by the primary user of the property to guard and protect the property and structure(s) from fire, vandalism, theft, etc. Such structure is not to be used for dwelling purposes other than as a caretaker unit.
Carport: A partially enclosed structure used for the housing of motor vehicles, the property of, and for use only by the occupants of the lot upon which such structure is located. For purposes of zoning, a carport attached to a principal structure shall be regarded as part of that principal structure and not as an accessory structure. A detached carport shall be classified as an accessory structure.
Cemetery: Place or area set apart for interment of the dead; includes not only lots for depositing remains of the deceased, but also pedestrian and vehicular thoroughfares, landscaping, and structures associated with the operation and maintenance of the cemetery.
Certificate of occupancy: A permit issued by the building official indicating that a structure has been constructed in accordance with all codes and that the structure or land is in conformity with provisions of this title or that there has been a legal variance granted as provided by this title.
Church: A structure consecrated to the honor of God or other supreme being or beings for religious purposes; or an assembly of persons united by the profession of the same religious faith, meeting together routinely for religious worship.
Clustering: The process of arranging the total number of residential units permitted on a given property onto 50 percent or less of the gross area of the property.
College or university: An institution of higher learning providing facilities for teaching and research and authorized to grant academic degrees.
Commercial or commercial use: Any activity involving the sale of goods or services for profit.
Commercial incinerator: Establishments primarily engaged in the collection and disposal of refuse by processing or destruction for profit. Examples would be furnaces or similar devices for the burning to ash of trash.
Commercial outdoor recreation: Outdoor commercial uses which by their nature are recreational such as golf courses, driving ranges, miniature golf courses, outdoor swimming pools, tennis courts, basketball courts, and recreational camps.
Commercial parking lots: An area devoted to the standing, maneuvering, and circulation of motor vehicles in commercial areas.
Commission: The mayor and commission of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia.
Community garden: A principal use of a parcel of land involving the cultivation and harvesting of food crops and/or non-food ornamental crops, such as flowers, by an organized neighborhood or non-profit group for personal use, consumption, donation or occasional sale, and meeting the standards outlined in section 9-15 of this title.
Community service: A structure or group of structures for a community's governmental, social, educational, and/or recreational activities. Community service facilities include federal, state, county, and local government activities.
Conditional zoning: The granting or adoption of zoning for a property subject to compliance with restrictions as to use, size, project design or timing of development stipulated by the Athens-Clarke County Commission to mitigate adverse impacts that could be expected without the imposition of such conditions.
Condominium: A type of ownership of attached or detached dwelling units, offices, or other space within a structure, as defined by the provisions of Title 44, Chapter 3, Article III, of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated (O.C.G.A. § 44-3-70 et seq.) in which each unit is independently owned and financed by the occupant but in which all lands are commonly owned.
Conservation subdivision: Subdivision of more than two lots in which a minimum of 50 percent of the acreage is retained as "open space" and the remaining 50 percent or less is subdivided into individual lots.
Construction materials sales: A business involved in the sale of structure supplies and services including lumber, plywood, drywall, siding, windows, molding, cabinets, insulation, etc.
Convenience store: A retail store with a floor area of less than 2,500 square feet that sells groceries and may also sell gasoline and/or provide electric vehicle charging stations; does not include automotive service stations or vehicle repair shops. Any retail store that exceeds 2,500 square feet and also sells gasoline shall be considered as a "quick vehicle servicing" use as defined in this chapter.
Corner lot: See "lot, corner."
Coverage, lot or site: Total area of all structures, paved driveways, or other soil disturbances that will not allow normal water infiltration. The coverage is expressed as a percentage of such area in relation to the total gross area of the lot or site. Landscaping shall not be deemed part of the lot or site coverage.
Critical root zone: The circular area above and below the ground around the trunk of a tree with a radius equivalent to the distance to the dripline, or 1.5 feet for every inch in trunk diameter at 4.5 feet above the ground, whichever is greater.
Day care: A public or private facility operated for the supervision and care of three or more unrelated individuals less than 24 hours per day, without transfer of legal custody, whose parents or guardians do not reside at the place of business.
Decibel (dB): The physical unit commonly used to measure noise levels; the unit of level such as the sound pressure level.
Deed restrictions/private covenants: Private stipulations usually pertaining to residential subdivisions which govern lot size, minimum floor area, uses permitted and, in some instances, architectural design. These may be stricter than provisions included in this title.
Dense evergreen foliage: A large quantity of vegetation per unit of area which retains its leaves throughout the year and of such opacity as to block one's vision through it.
Density: The quantity of an item per unit area; for example, the number of dwelling units per gross area or, for certain multi-family uses within this title, the number of bedrooms in a multi-family dwelling per gross area.
Diameter breast height (dbh): The outside diameter of the trunk of a tree, measured four and one-half feet above ground level.
Disc antenna: A device incorporating a reflective surface that is solid, open mesh, or bar configured and is the shape of a shallow dish, cone, horn, or cornucopia. Such devices may be used to transmit and/or receive radio or electromagnetic waves between terrestrially and/or orbitally based uses. This definition includes, but is not limited to, satellite earth stations and microwave antennas.
District: An area, region, or section with a distinguishing character; i.e., a zoning district.
Dormitory: A building or space in a building in which group sleeping accommodations are provided for more than 15 unrelated persons in one room or a series of closely associated rooms under joint occupancy and single management, with or without meals, but without individual cooking facilities. If the accommodations are for fewer than 15 persons, see "boarding house and rooming house."
Double frontage lot: See "lot, double frontage."
Drainage systems: Physical provisions to accommodate and regulate stormwater runoff to preclude excessive erosion and sedimentation and to control and regulate the rate of flow.
Dripline: A line extending down to the ground from the greatest horizontal extent of a tree's branches, more or less forming a circle around the tree.
Drive-through use: A facility or structure that is designed to allow drivers to remain in their vehicles before and during an activity on the site. Drive-through facilities are a type of site development that is usually found in conjunction with a quick vehicle servicing use or other retail sales and service use. Examples include, but are not limited to, drive-through windows, menu boards, car wash facilities, and quick lube or quick oil change facilities.
Driveway: An access way serving a single dwelling unit or parcel of land, and no greater than 50 feet travel distance in length. A flag drive serving a flag lot shall not be a driveway. Single dwelling or parcel accesses greater than 50 feet in length shall be considered as a flag drive, and subject to all of the development requirements thereof.
Driving surface: A paved access capable of supporting up to 44,000 pounds gross vehicle weight. Surface to be of minimum width as required by ordinance. Width shall be increased on turns where necessary to ensure fire apparatus remain on a paved surface during travel.
Drug rehabilitation center or other facility for treatment of drug dependency: A structure or land used for therapy or rehabilitation for substance-dependent individuals.
Duplex: See "dwelling, two-family."
Dwelling: A structure or portion thereof which is designed or used exclusively for residential purposes, including single-family, two-family, multifamily dwellings, rooming and boardinghouses, fraternities, sororities, dormitories, manufactured homes, and modular dwellings, but not including hotels or motels.
Dwelling loft: A residential unit located on the second floor or higher of a structure whose first and primary use is nonresidential. A loft shall contain no more than two units and shall be treated as a multifamily unit for purposes of parking and minimum floor area.
Dwelling, manufactured home: A structure transportable in one or more sections that is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling unit with or without permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and has plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein. When a manufactured home is erected in a manufactured housing park, it may be a Class "A" or "B" manufactured home but when erected on any other site it must be a Class "A" manufactured home.
Dwelling, manufactured home, "Class A": A dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site facility for installation or assembly at the structure site, bearing a label certifying it is constructed in compliance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards and meeting other development standards outlined in this title.
Dwelling, manufactured home, "Class B": A dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site facility for installation or assembly at the structure site, bearing a label certifying it is constructed in compliance with Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, but does not satisfy the criteria necessary to qualify the house as a Class "A" manufactured home.
Dwelling, modular: A modular home is a factory-fabricated, transportable structure consisting of units designated to be incorporated at a structure site on a permanent foundation into a structure to be used for residential purposes. For purposes of this title, a modular home is permitted anywhere a detached single-family structure is permitted.
Dwelling, multifamily: A structure or portion thereof providing complete independent living facilities for three or more dwelling units, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
Dwelling, single-family: An attached or detached residential unit other than a Class "A" or Class "B" manufactured home, hotel or motel, located on a single lot functioning as the only residential unit and designed for and occupied by one family only.
Dwelling, single-family attached: A single family dwelling attached to at least one other single family dwelling by a common vertical wall functioning as the property line, with each dwelling located on a separate lot.
Dwelling, townhouse: A type of dwelling that is one or more stories in height which has outside, individual front and rear entrances, is separated from other dwellings by fire-rated common walls extending from the foundation to the roof decking, and is part of a contiguous group of at least three but not more than ten such townhouses, and shall be considered a multifamily structure.
Dwelling, townhouse, fee simple: A townhouse unit, as defined above, that has the common wall or walls between it and the adjoining townhouse unit or units as its property line, that has individual meters for all utilities, that has access to a public street, and meets the standards outlined in this title.
Dwelling, two-family: A detached residential structure containing two dwelling units, designed for occupancy by not more than two families living independent of each other.
Dwelling unit: One room, or rooms connected together, constituting a separate, independent housekeeping establishment, containing independent cooking, sleeping and toilet facilities and which are physically separated from any other dwelling units which may be in the same structure.
Easement: A grant of the right to use a strip of land for specific purposes.
Electric vehicle charging station: A public or private parking space that is served by electric vehicle supply equipment that has as its primary purpose the transfer of electric energy (by conductive or inductive means) to a battery in an electric vehicle.
Elementary school: A school established for grades 1-5 but that may also include a kindergarten.
Equestrian facilities: A structure or area for horseback riding activities including boarding, training, lessons, and shows.
Fabricating: The process of assembling using standardized parts.
Family: Two or more persons residing in a single dwelling unit where all members are related by blood, marriage, or adoption up to the second degree of consanguinity, or by foster care. For the purposes of this definition, "consanguinity" means only the following persons are related within the second degree of consanguinity: Husbands and wives, parents and children, grandparents and grandchildren, brothers and sisters, aunts and uncles, nephews and nieces, and first cousins. For the purposes of this definition, a person shall be considered to reside in a dwelling unit if he or she stays overnight in a dwelling unit for more than 30 days within a 90-day period. The term "family" does not include any organization or institutional group. For regulations see section 9-15-18.
Any nonconforming use created by the adoption of this definition of "family" which was a legal use at the time of adoption shall be permitted to continue through July 31, 2002. After which date, the use of such dwelling shall be in compliance herewith. Any use established prior to or subsequent to the adoption of this definition of "family," which use did violate and continues to violate the standards of this chapter, is illegal, not nonconforming, and shall be handled in accordance with section 9-22-8 (Enforcement—Penalties).
Family day care homes: A place in which care is given in a family home for three to six children, which number would include the operator's own preschool age children, for more than four hours and less than 24 hours per day. Outdoor play area shall be enclosed on all sides to a height of at least four feet by a fence. The principal structure of such use shall meet yard requirements (setbacks, lot size) in the district in which it is located.
Fast food restaurant: A drive-through restaurant serving food from an ordering counter. Food can either be consumed on or off of the premises.
Fence height: The height of a fence measured from the finish grade to the highest point of the fence structure.
Fence, semi-open: A fence that is 40 to 80 percent permeable to light and air when viewed perpendicular to the plane of the fence.
Flag lot: See "lot, flag."
Floor area: The floor area is the gross horizontal area of the one or more floors of a structure, excluding interior parking spaces. Residential floor space shall be exclusive of carport, basement, attic, patios and open porches. Same as "gross leasable floor space."
Floor area ratio (FAR): The ratio which is the result of dividing the total floor area of a structure by the area of the lot on which it is located. For example, a structure with a floor area of 20,000 square feet, located on a lot of 40,000 square feet has a floor area ratio (FAR) of 0.5.
Food processing facilities: Industrial operations in which raw food is made suitable for consumption, cooking or storage. Such facilities include commercial slaughterhouses for poultry, livestock, or other animals, and egg farms.
Forested area: An area which contains more than 100 trees of greater than six inches dbh per acre, and which is more than 70 percent covered in tree canopy at full leaf-out.
Forested buffer: An area that is characterized by the dense growth of mature evergreen or deciduous trees. The density of this growth is such that views through the buffer area are obscured by the trees and/or understory growth.
Fraternity or sorority: Establishments chartered by national, state or local organizations and affiliated currently or in the past with an educational or other institutions to which they relate. Such establishments provide social and recreational facilities primarily for members (with visits by alumni) and may provide lodging and meals. For regulatory purposes, student centers operated under the auspices of church, other charitable institutions, or other student organizations shall be construed to fall under the same zoning controls as fraternities and sororities.
Frequency: Number of complete oscillations or cycles per unit of time. The unit of frequency often used is the hertz (Hz).
Front lot line: See "lot line, front."
Front yard: See "yard, front."
Future development map: That certain land use plan as described in Section 8-1-4 of the Code of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia. For the purposes of this title, this phrase is intended to be synonymous with the phrase "Future Land Use Map" as found in the rules and regulations of the Georgia Department of Community Affairs, Chapter 110-12-1 of the Official Compilation of the Rules and Regulations of the State of Georgia.
Future street right-of-way: Proposed or potential rights-of-way that need protection from future development so as to allow the widening of a road without destroying the principle structure or use of the property. The widths of such future rights-of-way shall be determined by either the transportation plan or an approved right-of-way plan. If not indicated on either one, widths shall be determined by the table listed within each zoning classification.
Garage, private: A structure for the private use of the owner or occupant of a principle structure for the storage of motor vehicles with no facilities for mechanical service or repair of a commercial or public nature.
Garage sale: A temporary activity conducted on the premises of a private residence for the purpose of disposal of goods or belongings of the residents of the dwelling. Such activity shall have a duration of not more than two days, nor shall it occur more than twice within any 365-day period. Such activity shall not be accompanied by any off-premises signage. For the purposes of this title, "garage sales" shall not be considered a commercial activity.
General business: Commercial uses providing a wide range of retail goods and services to meet the needs of a large segment of the community.
Grade or ground level: The average of the finished ground level at the center of all walls of the structure. In case a wall is parallel to and within five feet of a sidewalk, the ground level shall be measured at the sidewalk.
Gravel pit: An open land area where sand, gravel, and/or rock fragment are mined or excavated for sale or off-site use. Gravel pit includes sifting, crushing, and washing as part of the primary operation. To excavate the rock, blasting also may be necessary.
Grocery store: A retail store that sells food, beverages, and other household implements and supplies, but does not sell gasoline.
Gross acreage: The total acreage of a lot prior to making site improvements.
Gross leasable floor space: The floor area is the gross horizontal area of the one or more floors of a structure, excluding interior parking spaces. Residential floor space shall be exclusive of carport, basement, attic, patios and open porches. Same as "floor area."
Ground coverage: The area of a lot occupied by all structures and parking expressed as a percentage of the gross area of the lot. Driveways should not be included in the percent coverage but parking pads or areas, porches, decks, patios, pools, tennis courts, sheds, walkways and other accessory uses shall be included.
Ground level: See "grade or ground level."
Group home: See definition of "personal care home."
Guest house: Accessory structure to a single-family dwelling provided there are no kitchen cooking facilities in the guesthouse.
Half street: See "street, half."
Halfway house: A group facility occupied and used for the business purpose of providing transitional offender rehabilitation or similar purposes, whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether or not required to have a state or federal permit, provided that the majority of the residents shall meet one of the following criteria:
(1)
On parole or probation, or has been ordered to reside in such type of facility as a condition of parole or probation; or
(2)
Has been convicted of a felony and has completed his or her sentence; or
(3)
Has been convicted of a criminal offense and has been ordered to reside in such type of facility as part of the criminal sentencing.
Heavy manufacturing: Uses engaged in the basic processing and manufacturing of materials or products predominately from extracted or raw materials, or a use engaged in storage of or manufacturing processes using flammable or explosive materials, or storage or manufacturing processes that potentially involve hazardous or commonly recognized offensive conditions that include, but are not limited to, smoke, steam, noise, soot, dirt, vibration, odor, or any other by-product of the manufacturing process that is known to be detrimental to the human or natural environment. These activities may involve outdoor operations as part of their manufacturing process. Heavy manufacturing uses include, but are not limited to, storage of petroleum products, concrete or cement fabrication where raw materials and finished products are stored outside, pulpwood processing, asphalt manufacturing, landfills, recycling processes, outdoor storage of solid waste, and other uses similar in nature.
Height of structure: See "structure, height of."
Heritage trees: Trees greater than 150 years of age as determined by planting or other records or an arborist's or forester's opinion. In general, the following size specifications apply when identifying heritage trees: trees greater than 18 inches in diameter for small-sized trees, 24 inches in diameter for medium-sized trees, and 36 inches in diameter for large trees. Heritage trees may also be those of an unusual or exceptional species, form, or character; trees that are part of an historic or neighborhood-wide planting project that affect the greater landscape beyond the property on which they grow; or tree associated with an historic event, person, or community landmark.
Hertz: Unit of frequency equal to one cycle per second.
High school: A school established for grades 9—12 or 10—12.
Home occupation: An occupation commonly carried on within a residential dwelling by the residents occupying the dwelling, secondary to the residential use, and subject to the requirements of this title.
Homeowners' association: A homeowners' association is an organization formed for the maintenance and operation of the common areas of the development. The membership in the association must be automatic with the purchase of a dwelling unit or other property in the planned development. The association's principal source of funds shall be an assessment levied against each dwelling unit or other property, which assessment shall be enforceable as a lien against the property.
Horticulture: The cultivation of row crops, a garden, or an orchard for noncommercial purposes.
Hospital: An establishment which provides sleeping and eating facilities to persons receiving medical, obstetrical, or surgical care and nursing service on a continuous basis.
Hostel: Any establishment having beds rented or kept for rent on a daily basis to travelers for a charge or fee paid or to be paid for rental or use of facilities and which are operated, managed or maintained under the sponsorship of a non-profit organization which holds a valid exemption from federal income taxes under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended.
Hotel: A facility offering transient lodging accommodations to the general public at a daily rate or weekly rate for a period of continuous guest occupancy not to exceed 30 days, and providing additional services, such as restaurants, meeting rooms, and recreational facilities. Guest quarters are accessible through a main entrance and by hallways.
Indoor recreation: Indoor commercial uses which by their nature are recreational. Examples include bowling alleys, skating rinks, health clubs, racquetball courts, indoor swimming pools, video arcades, pool halls, etc.
Industrial or industrial use: An activity related to the manufacture, production or storage of products to be transported elsewhere for retail sale.
Inoperative vehicle: Any motorized vehicle incapable of immediately being driven.
Institutional or institutional use: A non-profit or quasi-public use, such as a religious institution, private school, hospital, medical center, nursing home, cemetery, as well as the ancillary uses directly affiliated with these institutional uses.
Interior lot: See "lot, interior."
Intermediate care facilities: A convalescent home or other recuperative facility for use by persons subsequent to hospital confinement, who are not yet ready to resume home life.
Junk yards, salvage yards, and auto wrecking yards: A place where waste, discarded or salvaged metals, structure materials, paper, textiles, used plumbing fixtures, used vehicles or equipment in inoperative condition, or similar items are bought, sold, exchanged or stored, baled or cleaned.
Kennels: Facility for the boarding (overnight) of domestic animals, usually limited to dogs and cats. Breeding and training of dogs and cats and the sale to the public of puppies and kittens is classified as a kennel activity.
Land disturbing activity: Alteration of the land surface by:
(1)
Any grading, scraping, excavating, dredging, transporting or filling of land;
(2)
Any clearing of vegetation;
(3)
Any construction, rebuilding, or alteration of a building, road, driveway, parking area, or other structure, not including routine maintenance such as painting, repair, or reconstruction of existing structures or surfaces;
(4)
Any substantial activity or use which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into waters or lands protected by this title;
(5)
It shall not include activities such as ordinary maintenance and landscaping operations, individual home gardens, repairs, additions or minor modifications of an existing single-family dwelling, and the cutting of firewood for personal use.
Land use plan: The Future Land Use Map adopted by the Athens-Clarke County Commission in conjunction with the Athens-Clarke County Comprehensive Plan. For purposes of this title, this phrase is intended to be synonymous with the phrase "future development map."
Landscaping: A planted area containing trees, shrubs, and groundcovers providing a transition between structures on a site and the property line, adjacent structures, and/or street rights-of-way.
Laundry facilities: A commercial laundering establishment which cleans clothing, carpeting, drapes, and other cloth or synthetic fiber materials using a chemical process. Such establishments may also include self-service laundering facilities.
Light manufacturing: Enterprises engaged in the processing, manufacturing, compounding, assembly, packaging, treatment, or fabrication of materials and products, from processed or previously manufactured materials, or materials fully encapsulated in a sealed container, including but not limited to, jars, cans, drums, or other container of a similar nature, to be stored inside. Light industry is capable of operation in such a manner as to control the external effects of the manufacturing process, such as smoke, steam, noise, soot, dirt, vibration, odor, or any other by-product of the manufacturing process that is known to be detrimental to the human or natural environment. Light manufacturing uses include, but are not limited to, machine shops, manufacturing of apparel, electrical appliances, electronic equipment and computer components, camera and photographic equipment, ceramic products, cosmetics and toiletries, business machines, food, paper products (excluding the manufacture of paper from pulpwood), medical appliances, tools or hardware, plastic products (excluding the processing of raw materials), pharmaceuticals or optical goods, and any other product of a similar nature.
Livestock: Establishments that are primarily engaged in the fattening of livestock in a confined area for at least 30 days, either for their purposes or on a fee or contractual basis for the expressed purpose of slaughter, sale or increasing the value of the livestock. Poultry facilities and egg producing facilities shall be included in this definition.
Loading space, off-street: Space logically and conveniently located for bulk pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used, design standards for which are contained in this title.
Lot: A unit of land created by a subdivision, which complies with all applicable laws at the time such lots were created.
Lot area: The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot, said area to be exclusive of street right-of-way.
Lot, corner: A lot abutting the intersection of two or more streets other than an alley.
Lot depth: The horizontal distance from the midpoint of the front lot line to the midpoint of the rear lot line except on flag lots, where the depth shall be measured at the midpoint of the main body of the lot and does not include the pole or access portion.
Lot, double frontage: A lot having frontage on two nonintersecting streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
Lot, flag: Any lot not having standard legal access to an Athens-Clarke County street, and which is provided with access by a driveway parallel to the lot line of a lot having standard access.
Lot frontage: That portion of a lot adjacent to a street.
Lot, interior: A lot other than a corner lot or a through lot.
Lot line: A boundary of a lot. "Lot line" is synonymous with "property line."
Lot line, front: In the case of an interior lot, the lot line separating the lot from the street other than an alley. A corner lot shall have one street line considered the front lot line. The narrower street frontage shall be the front lot line except when the planning director determines topographical or access problems make such a designation impractical.
Lot line, rear: A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front lot line, and in the case of an irregular, triangular, or other shaped lot, a line ten feet in length within the lot parallel to and at a maximum distance from the front lot line.
Lot line, side: Any lot line not a front or rear lot line.
Lot of record: An individual lot or a lot which is a part of a subdivision, the map of which has been legally recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia; or a parcel of land the deed of which has been recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of Athens-Clarke County.
Lot, reversed corner: A corner lot, the side street line of which is substantially a continuation of the front line of the first lot to its rear.
Lot, through: An interior lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately parallel streets other than alleys. Such a lot shall have one front yard fronting on the primary public street.
Lot width: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, ordinarily measured parallel to the front lot line. The lot width shall be measured beginning at the front lot line, except for lots entirely fronting turnaround areas of cul-de-sacs, where the lot width shall be measured at the minimum required front setback line.
Major event entertainment: A structure or area with a capacity of greater than 1,000 seats for public performances and sporting events. Major event entertainment facilities include movie theaters, concert halls, stadiums, and arenas.
Manufacture of non-odiferous foods: Industrial operations for the manufacturing of non-odiferous foods.
Manufactured home: See "dwelling, manufactured home."
Manufactured home development: A tract of land that is used, designated, maintained, or held out for rent to accommodate four or more manufactured homes. Manufactured homes located in a manufactured home park are used only to provide living, cooking, and sleeping accommodations; a manufactured home park does not include an automobile or manufactured home sales lot on which unoccupied manufactured homes are parked for inspection or sale.
Map: A diagram or drawing of a partition or subdivision or any other land use or land development matter.
Mechanical equipment: Equipment or devices installed for a use appurtenant to the primary use. Such equipment shall include heating and air conditioning equipment, solar collectors, parabolic antennas, disc antenna, radio or TV receiving or transmitting antennas, and any power generating devices. The following equipment or devices are exempt:
(1)
Private, non-commercial radio and television antennas not exceeding a height of 70 feet above grade or 30 feet above an existing structure, whichever height is greater. No part of such antenna shall be within the yards required by this chapter. A structure permit shall be required for any antenna mast, or tower over 50 feet above grade or 30 feet above an existing structure when the same is constructed on the roof of the structure.
(2)
Parabolic antennas under three feet in diameter.
Medical center: A walk-in facility for medical, obstetrical, or surgical care limited to day use only.
Middle school: A school established for grades 6—8 or 6—9.
Mine:
(1)
A cavity in the earth from which minerals and ores are extracted; and
(2)
The act of removing minerals and ores.
Minimum structure separation: A required open space between any two structures on the same lot or adjacent lots which are used for nonresidential and multifamily residential purposes.
Mining: The extraction of minerals or earth products, including solids, such as coal and ores; liquids, such as crude petroleum; and gases, such as natural gases. The term mining includes quarrying; ground-water diversion; soil removal or dredging; milling, such as crushing, screening, washing, and flotation; and other preparation customarily done at the mine site as part of a mining activity.
Modular dwelling: See "dwelling, modular."
Mortuary: A place in which dead bodies are kept until burial.
Motel: A structure or group of structures on the same lot containing individual guest units for rental to transients, with separate exterior entrances, and consisting of individual sleeping quarters, detached or in connected rows, with or without cooking facilities.
Multifamily: See "dwelling, multifamily."
Node: Crossing or convergence of intersecting roadways, concentrations of a particular use in close proximity to one another in a well-defined geographic area, or other significant destination along a given roadway.
Nonconforming use or structure: Any structure or use of land lawful at the time of passage or amendment of this title which does not conform, after the passage or amendment of this title, with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
Nursery: See "day care."
Nursing home: A home for the aged, chronically ill, or incurable persons who are unable to care for themselves and in which three or more persons not of the immediate family are kept or provided with food and shelter or care for compensation; but not including hospitals, clinics, or other similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of the sick or injured.
Off-street loading space: See "loading space, off-street."
Official map: A map officially adopted by the governing body of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia.
Official zoning map: A map officially adopted by the governing body of Athens-Clarke County that illustrates the various zoning districts of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia.
Open space: A common area designated on the final plans of the development, permanently set aside for the common use of the residents of the development and, if so designated, for the use of the community as a whole. The open space may be landscaped and/or left with natural vegetative cover, and in which area no thoroughfares, parking areas, or improvements other than recreational facilities or specifically permitted underground utilities are located. This definition shall apply to all developments except conservation subdivisions, which shall use the definition for "Open space, conservation subdivision" provided herein and in Chapter 9-14A.
Open space, conservation subdivision: As required in conservation subdivision development, open space is defined as the portion of the conservation subdivision that has been set aside for permanent protection for the common use of the residents of the development and, if so designated, for the use of the community as a whole. The land designated as open space shall be in single ownership, and shall not be divided among any number of the constituent developable lots of the subdivision. Activities within the open space are restricted in perpetuity through the use of an approved legal instrument and are subject to the terms of this chapter. The permitted and prohibited uses, and permanent protection and management, of this open space shall comply with the terms of Chapter 9-14A.
Outdoor storage: The storage of especially large quantities of materials or products associated with an industry or business. Such storage will often require a structure designed for and/or devoted to the containment of the item, such as oil storage tank or grain elevator.
Parking, principal use: A lot of record devoted to the parking of motor vehicles as its main or primary use. Such use may include electric vehicle charging stations.
Parking space: A rectangle not less than 18 feet long and nine feet wide together with access and maneuvering space sufficient to permit a standard automobile to be parked within the rectangle without the necessity of moving other vehicles, said rectangle to be located off of the street right-of-way.
Parking tandem: Parking spaces that are arranged one behind another. Each parking space shall meet the dimension requirements of a full-size car on a one-way aisle.
Parks and open areas: An area free of structures, parking, paved areas, and other uses, the purpose of which is to provide a balanced relationship between buildable area and lot size. Such area can be utilized for active or passive recreational pursuits or for the enhancement of lot aesthetics. Includes botanical and zoological gardens.
Passive recreation space: A common area designated on the final plans of a development permanently set aside for the use by the residents and/or the public that accommodates activities such as walking, jogging, biking, sitting, picnicking, and any activity that does not require improved structures or formal recreation fields. Areas with slopes greater than 15 percent, wetlands, stormwater detention areas, and/or dense vegetation are not suitable for use as passive recreation areas.
Peak particle velocity: Unit of measurement that identifies, in inches per seconds, the rate of speed in which particles suspended in water are moving.
Pedestrian path: A graded, cleared way for individuals who travel on foot. When located along any improved street or parking area, these paths shall be adjacent to the curb at curb level.
Pedestrian way: A right-of-way for pedestrian traffic.
Permitted use: That use of a lot which is among the uses allowed as a matter of right under the zoning classifications.
Person: An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate, receiver, syndicate, branch of government, social or fraternal organization, or any other group or combination acting as a legal entity, and including any trustee, assignee, or other representative thereof.
Personal care home: A profit or nonprofit facility, home, or structure for the protective care of two or more persons, who need a watchful environment, but do not have an illness, injury, or disability, which requires chronic or convalescent care, including medical and nursing services. Protective care and watchful oversight includes, but is not limited to, a daily awareness by management of the residents' whereabouts, the asking and reminding of residents of their appointments for medical checkups, the ability and readiness of management to intervene if a crisis arises for a resident, and supervision by management in areas of nutrition, medication, and actual provision of transient medical care, with a 24-hour responsibility for the well-being of residents of the facility. For regulations governing "personal care homes" see section 9-15-19 of this title. Personal care homes shall be classified in one of the following ways:
(1)
Individual: Two to three clients
(2)
Family: Four to six clients
(3)
Group: Seven to 15 clients
(4)
Congregate: Sixteen or more clients
Planned development: A development on land under unified control according to comprehensive plans and a single development plan for uses and structures related to the character of the district with a program for operation and maintenance of common areas.
Planning action: Any action requiring review in accordance with the provisions of section 9-4-2 of this title.
Planning commission: The Athens-Clarke County Planning Commission.
Planning staff: The staff of the Athens-Clarke County Planning Department.
Plat: A diagram, drawing or re-plat containing all the descriptions, locations, specifications, dedications, provisions and information concerning a subdivision.
Prescribed grazing: The application of sheep or goats as a landscape management technique to control invasive or unwanted plant species at a specific location and specific intensity for a defined length of time. For purposes of this section, goats and sheep used for prescribed grazing purposes are not considered to be livestock or agriculture uses.
Principal structure: See "structure, principal."
Printing/publishing: An establishment where printed material is produced, reproduced and/or copied by either a printing press, photographic reproduction techniques, or other similar techniques.
Private access drive: A drive serving as the exclusive access for not more than two landlocked parcels of land, which is not owned or maintained by Athens-Clarke County. Private easements cannot be used to meet the right-of-way requirement.
Private garage: See "garage, private."
Private street: A street which serves several lots over which the general public has no right of use as opposed to a driveway which is meant to serve one lot.
Private way: A private easement or ownership established by deed for vehicular access to property.
Professional services and offices: Offices used for the conduct of business-related activities, excluding the sale of merchandise or storing of merchandise on the premises.
Public street: A street which is owned and/or maintained by Athens-Clarke County.
Quarry: A mine where rock, ore, stone, and similar materials are excavated for sale or for off-site use. Quarry includes rock crushing, asphalt plants, the production of dimension stone, and similar activities.
Quick vehicle servicing: A business providing service to the motoring public. Such uses can include gasoline sales, electric vehicle charging stations, battery exchange stations, light repair, tune-ups, and oil changes to automobiles or light trucks. No overnight outside storage of any automobiles or materials, such as tires, auto parts, etc., is allowable. The sale of motor vehicles shall be prohibited.
Rear lot line: See "lot line, rear."
Rear yard: See "yard, rear."
Recreational vehicle: A motorized vehicle, designed and/or maintained for use as a temporary dwelling or sleeping place for travel or recreation purposes exclusively, having no foundation other than wheels or jacks.
Recreational vehicle park: A parcel of land which is used solely for the rental or lease of lots for transient campers, trailers, motor homes, or temporary parking of any other recreational vehicle that is not a manufactured home.
Reserve strip: A nonpermanent dead-end street intended to be extended in conjunction with the subdivision and development of the adjacent undeveloped land. Also known as a street stub or a street plug.
Residential or residential use: Any activity, as contrasted with commercial and industrial activities, which involves the peaceful, private conduct of pursuits related to the living environment.
Restaurant: An establishment that prepares and serves food to customers at least one meal per day and which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross food and beverage sales from the sale of prepared meals or food. For the purposes of this title, this definition may include sit-down, fast food, drive-through, and drive-in facilities.
Retail sales and service: A business established for the sale of goods or services to consumers, usually in small quantities (as opposed to wholesale). Gasoline sales are not included is this definition.
Retaining wall: A wall or terraced combination of walls used at a grade to change or hold soil or other earth material at a higher position. Retaining walls may be attached to or independent from other structures, but do not include the foundations of structures or buildings.
Reversed corner lot: See "lot, reversed corner."
Right-of-way: Access over or across a particularly described property for a specific purpose.
Rural events facility: A facility located on land zoned AR (Agricultural Residential) that provides a commercial facility for use by various private groups, not exceeding 300 persons, for meetings, weddings, receptions, and other similar events.
Sales of products grown on-site: Roadside stands or other temporary structures constructed for the sale of agricultural or horticultural products raised substantially on the premises.
Salvage yards: See "junk yards, salvage yards, and auto wrecking yards."
Sand pit: A surface mine or excavation used for the removal of sand, gravel, or fill dirt for sale or for use off-site.
Sanitary landfills: A system of trash and garbage disposal in which the waste is buried between layers of earth.
Satellite earth stations: Are considered to be accessory structures and are defined as a combination of:
(1)
An antenna or dish antenna whose purpose is to receive communication or other signals from orbiting satellites and other extraterrestrial sources;
(2)
A low-noise amplifier (LNA) which is situated at the focal point of the receiving component and whose purpose is to magnify and transfer signals;
(3)
A coaxial cable whose purpose is to carry the signals into the interior of the structure; and
(4)
The station must be located to the side or rear of the structure unless a usable satellite signal cannot be obtained; in which case, the property owner may request a variance from the requirement through the hearings board. Ground-mounted stations shall be no more than ten feet above the maximum height requirement of the district in which they are located.
Scrap metal processor: One who, from a fixed location, utilizes machinery and equipment for processing and manufacturing iron, steel or nonferrous metallic scrap into prepared grades and whose principal product is scrap iron, scrap steel, or nonferrous metallic scrap for sale for remelting purposes.
Screening: The establishment of an opaque fence or barrier for the purpose of obscuring from sight a use.
Self-service storage: A structure or portion thereof used for dead storage, mainly of the excess personal property of an individual or family, but also of small amounts of goods or merchandise for businesses or individuals.
Semi-public halls, clubs or lodges: A structure or facility owned or operated for special educational or recreational purposes, but not primarily for profit or to render a service that is customarily carried on for gain, not including fraternity or sorority.
Setback line: The minimum required distance from the street right-of-way line or any other property line that the principal structure must observe.
Shopping center: A group of commercial establishments planned, developed, and managed as a unit, related in location, size and type of shops to the trade area that the unit serves, and providing on-site parking.
Side lot line: See "lot line, side."
Side yard: See "yard, side."
Signs: Any device designed to inform or attract the attention of the public.
Single-family dwelling: See "dwelling, single-family."
Sorority house: See "fraternity or sorority house."
Special use: A use which is not automatically permitted by right, but which may be permitted within a zoning district subject to meeting specific conditions contained in this title.
Stable, private: A stable with a capacity of not more than two horses, mules or other draught animals.
Stable, public: A stable, other than a private stable, with a capacity of more than two horses or mules or other draught animals.
Stand inventory: An inventory of trees in a forest stand or woodland to determine their frequency (number of trees) by species and dbh (by two-inch classes); inventory methods may include measuring only a sample (a certain percentage of the trees) or all trees (100 percent inventory). When only a sample is taken the total number of trees by species and diameter is calculated by expanding the sample data statistically to estimate the total per acre and then multiplying by the number of acres in the stand or woodland.
Stand table: A table summarizing information obtained during a stand inventory regarding the total number of trees in the forest stand or woodland by species, diameter, and basal area. For Athens-Clarke County purposes, a stand table shall be prepared by a registered landscape architect or a registered forester and shall include an estimate of the number of trees by species and by two-inch dbh (diameter at breast height) classes using standard, professionally accepted sampling methods.
State waters: Includes any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state, which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
Story: That portion of a structure included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no floor above it, the space between the floor and the ceiling above it; provided, that a room, suite, or story with more than one-half of its height below grade shall not be considered a story for the purposes of height regulations.
Street: A public right-of-way for roadway, sidewalk, and utility installation including the terms "road", "highway", "land", "place", "avenue" "alley", or other similar designations. The entire width between the right-of-way lines of every way which provides for public use for the purpose of vehicular and pedestrian traffic. Various classifications of streets shall be defined as follows:
(1)
Arterial: A street which is used as a direct connection between nodes.
(2)
Major collector: A street which carries traffic from activity centers and minor collector streets to arterial streets and streets of higher classification.
(3)
Minor collector: A street which carries traffic from residential collectors and local streets to major collectors and arterial streets.
(4)
Residential collector: Principal entrance streets to subdivisions and the main streets for circulation within a subdivision which serve a network of four or more local streets. Residential collector streets are designed so that traffic circulation in a subdivision would cause such a street to be used as a link between local streets and major collector or arterial streets.
(5)
Local: A street used primarily in residential subdivisions for access to abutting properties as opposed to the collection and dispersion of traffic.
Street, cul-de-sac: A short dead-end street terminated by a vehicle turnaround.
Street, half: A portion of the width of a street, usually along the edge of a subdivision, where the remaining portion of the street could be provided in another subdivision.
Street, marginal access: A minor street parallel and adjacent to a major arterial street providing access to abutting properties but protected from through traffic.
Street frontage. That portion of a lot contiguous to a street.
Structure: Any structure attached to the ground which has a roof and which is designed for the shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or property of any kind. That which is built or constructed; an edifice or structure of any kind or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner and which requires location on, in, or above the ground or which is attached to something having a location on, in or above the ground.
Structure envelope: An area, within the property boundaries of a parcel, within which a permitted structure can be placed.
Structure, overall height of: The vertical distance between the proposed average finished grade and the proposed average roof elevation. The average roof elevation shall be measured at the highest point of the coping of a flat roof or the deck line of a mansard roof, or at the midpoint between the highest eave and the highest ridgeline elevations for pitched or hipped roofs. The proposed average finished grade shall be measured as the arithmetic mean of the finished grade elevations taken at each corner of the building footprint. Any height limitation of this title shall not apply to church spires, belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human habitation, monuments, water towers, silos, chimneys, rooftop mechanical equipment, elevator equipment housing, flag poles, except as may be limited in the "A" Airport overlay zone.
Structure, true elevation height of: The vertical distance between the proposed average finished grade and the highest point of the vertical plane. When used to determine a setback, the architectural elevations facing an associated lot line shall be used to determine the setback from that lot line. The proposed average finished grade associated with the architectural elevation being measured shall be measured as the arithmetic mean of the finished grade elevations taken at each corner of that architectural elevation. Any height limitation of this title shall not apply to church spires, belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human habitation, monuments, water towers, silos, chimneys, flag poles, except as may be limited in the "A" Airport overlay zone.
Structure line: A line on a plat indicating the limit beyond which structures or structures may not be erected. Similar to building envelope.
Structure, principal: A structure in which is conducted the main or principal use of the lot upon which such structure is situated. Structures which are attached to the principal structure, either directly by complete and heated enclosure or by a breezeway not to exceed 15 feet in length, shall be considered part of the principal structure.
Structural alteration: A change to the supporting members of a structure including foundations, bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or the roof.
Subdivide land: To divide an area or tract of land into lots.
Subdivision: An act of subdividing land or a tract of land into lots.
Surface mining: Includes, but is not limited to, any activity consisting all or parts of a process for the removal of minerals, ores, earth products, and other solid matter for sale or for processing or for consumption in the regular operation of a business.
Swale: A broad linear depression, ditch-like, grassed, and designed to carry runoff water.
Temporary structure: A structure without any foundation or footings which is attached to the ground or other structure in some nonpermanent fashion. Temporary structures shall require a permit from the building inspection department and shall be removed from the site when the designated time period, activity, or use for which the temporary structure was established has ceased, but not exceeding 90 days in duration unless an extension is obtained from the building inspection department upon just cause. For the purposes of this title, temporary structures shall not be classified by definition as accessory structures. Temporary structures shall be approved by staff permit, with such conditions as the planning staff deems necessary in light of the standards associated with the underlying zoning.
Temporary special events: A temporary public performance, festival, meeting, sporting event, or similar activity, which is not part of the normal use of the subject property and which is not otherwise permitted on the site.
Temporary use: A short-term, seasonal, or intermittent use. Such use shall be approved by staff permit, with such conditions as the planning staff deems necessary in light of the standards associated with the underlying zoning. Temporary uses are granted for 90 days, with the option for a one-time renewal not to exceed an additional 90 days. This definition shall apply to all temporary uses except "Temporary special events" provided herein.
Theaters: A structure, portion of a structure, or area devoted to the presentation of motion pictures, concerts, dramatic, dance, musical, or other live performances.
Through lot: See "lot, through."
Townhouse: See "dwelling, townhouse."
Townhouse, fee simple: See "dwelling, townhouse, fee simple."
Tract of land: A unit, or contiguous units, of land under single ownership.
Trailer: A non-motorized vehicle, pulled by an automobile or truck designed and/or maintained for use as a temporary dwelling or sleeping place for travel or recreation purposes exclusively.
Transfer station: A temporary storage facility for the consolidation and eventual transfer of solid waste to a landfill.
Two-family dwelling: See "dwelling, two-family."
Unbuildable area: All areas outside of building envelopes and within open space.
Unified government: The Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia.
Use: The purpose or purposes for which land or a structure is designed, arranged, or intended, or to which such land or structure is occupied, maintained, or leased.
Utility substation: Facility incorporating minor buildings or fencing relating to power transmission, natural gas, telephone, telecommunications, water, or sewer that are located outside of the right-of-way. Equipment that is located off the right-of-way but that is self-contained (e.g., pad-mounted transformers, cross-boxes, etc.) is not included in this definition, and is allowed in any district and exempt from any requirements listed in chapter 9-17.
Variance: A variance is a relaxation of the terms of this title where such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the title would result in unnecessary and undue hardship, and practical difficulties.
Vehicle repair: A business providing vehicle repair and body work to the motoring public. Overnight outside storage of automobiles and materials, such as tires, auto parts, etc., is allowable if not visible from a street and not located either in a front yard or in a side yard abutting a street.
Veterinary clinic: Facility for the temporary boarding and treatment of domestic animals, operated under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian.
Village green: An open space area available for unstructured recreation that is fronted on the majority of its sides by structures or roadways. Landscaping in such areas shall consist primarily of open lawn with trees and landscape beds arranged at the perimeter. Paved pedestrian facilities may be provided along the perimeter of the area, with limited axial pedestrian facilities crossing the area.
Vision clearance area: A triangular area on a lot at the intersection of two streets or a street and a railroad, two sides of which are lot lines measured from the corner intersection of the lot lines for a distance specified in these regulations. The third side of the triangle is a line across the corner of the lot joining the ends of the other two sides. Where the lot lines or intersections have rounded corners, the lot lines will be extended in a straight line to a point of intersection.
Wholesale nurseries: An area where plants are grown for transplanting, for use as stocks for budding and grafting, or for sale in large quantities for resale purposes.
Wholesale sales: A business engaged in the sale of goods in large quantities for resale purposes.
Wholesale storage and distribution: The storage and distribution of goods and merchandise produced or manufactured off-premises for later shipment to retail or wholesale distributors.
Wildlife corridor: A strip of wildlife habitat of variable width and length that connects two larger parcels of wildlife habitat.
Wildlife habitat: The arrangement of food, water, shelter, or cover, and space suitable to animal's needs.
Yard: A required open space located on the same lot as the principal structure, unoccupied and unobstructed except for accessory uses and landscaping.
Yard, front: A yard extended across the full width of and situated between the front lot line and the principal structure line projected to the side lines of the lot, the depth of which shall be the least horizontal distance between the front lot line and the structure line.
Yard, rear: A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the rearmost line of the principal structure projected to the side lines of the lot and the rear lot line, the depth of which shall be the least horizontal distance between the rear line of the principal structure and the rear lot line. In all cases, the rear yard shall be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
Yard, side: A yard between the principal structure and the side lot line, extending from the front yard to the rear yard. The width of the required side yard shall be measured horizontally from the nearest point of the side lot line to the principal structure. A corner lot shall have one front yard and one side yard.
Zoning: The power of local governments to provide within their respective territorial boundaries for the zoning or districting of property for various uses and the prohibition of other or different uses within such zones or districts and for the regulation of development and the improvement of real estate within such zones or districts in accordance with the uses of property for which such zones or districts were established.
Zoning enforcement officer: The individual designated by the Athens-Clarke County Manager whose duty it shall be to enforce the provisions of this title.
Zoning permit: A permit issued by planning staff stating that a structure has been constructed in accordance with the zoning ordinance and that use of a structure and/or land is in conformity with provisions of this title or that there has been a legal variance granted as provided by this title.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1; Ord. of 3-6-2001, §§ 1, 2; Ord. of 6-5-2001, § 1; Ord. of 6-5-2001, § 1; Ord. of 6-5-2001, § 9; Ord. of 9-4-2001, § 1; Ord. of 5-7-2002, § 1; Ord. of 9-3-2002, § 1; Ord. of 7-1-2003; Ord. of 10-7-2003, § 1; Ord. of 12-2-2003, § 1; Ord. of 12-2-2003, § 1; Ord. of 12-2-2003, § 1; Ord. of 10-5-2004, § 1; Ord. of 8-1-2006, § 1; Ord. of 8-1-2006, § 1; Ord. of 2-6-2007, § 1; Ord. of 7-1 2008, § 1; Ord. of 2-3-2009, § 1; Ord. of 4-7-2009, § 1; Ord. of 5-5-2009, § 1; Ord. of 12-7-2010, § 1; Ord. of 4-5-2011, § 1; Ord. of 10-2-2012, § 1; Ord. of 12-4-2012, § 1; Ord. of 2-5-2013, § 1; Ord. of 2-5-2013, § 1; Ord. of 10-1-2013, §§ 1—3; Ord. of 2-4-2014, § 1; Ord. of 6-3-2014, § 1; Ord. of 3-3-2015, § 1 ; Ord. of 5-5-2015(1), § 1 ; Ord. of 8-2-2016(2), § 1 ; Ord. of 2-7-2017(2), §§ 1, 2 ; Ord. of 7-5-2017(3), § 1 ; Ord. of 12-5-2017(2), § 1 ; Ord. of 7-3-2018(2), §§ 2, 3 ; Ord. of 7-3-2018(3), §§ 1, 2 ; Ord. of 8-7-2018(2), § 1 ; Ord. of 2-2-2021(1), § 1 )
