CHAPTER 1-11. - OCONEE RIVERS GREENWAY COMMISSION[7]
Sec. 1-11-1. Oconee Rivers Greenway Commission.

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Charter reference— Athens-Clarke County Commission, § 2-101; certain boards, commissions and authorities continued, § 4-101.

Sec. 1-11-1. - Oconee Rivers Greenway Commission.
(a)
Establishment, membership, terms. There shall be an Oconee Rivers Greenway Commission which shall consist of 15 members appointed for five-year terms of office.
(1)
Ten members shall be appointed initially by the Commission of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia. Whenever a vacancy exists thereafter, the Oconee Rivers Greenway Commission shall make nominations to the commission and the commission shall confirm or reject such nominations.
(2)
Five members shall be appointed initially by the president of the University of Georgia. Whenever a vacancy exists thereafter, the Oconee Rivers Greenway Commission shall make nominations to the president of the University of Georgia and the president shall confirm or reject such nominations.
(3)
There may be up to ten ex officio members of the Oconee Rivers Greenway Commission, one representative from each of the following:
Athens-Clarke County Leisure Services Department (Liaison).
Athens-Clarke County Sustainability Office.
Athens-Clarke County Planning Department.
Athens-Clarke County Public Utilities Department.
Athens-Clarke County Transportation and Public Works (Bike/Ped Coordinator).
Bike Athens.
Rail to Trail (Currently Firefly Trail Inc.).
Upper Oconee Watershed Network.
Oconee Rivers Audubon Society.
Northeast Georgia Regional Commission.
Other appropriate organizations may be asked to send representatives but the total number of ex officio members shall not exceed ten members. The manager of Athens-Clarke County shall appoint the ex officio members.
(b)
Rules and regulations. The Oconee Rivers Greenway Commission is hereby authorized to adopt bylaws for its own administration and to recommend rules and regulations for the proper protection and management of the North Oconee, Middle Oconee, and Oconee rivers, their major tributaries and their floodplains within the borders of Athens-Clarke County.
(c)
Responsibility generally. The Oconee Rivers Greenway Commission shall be responsible for developing the plan for a river-oriented greenway system and related greenway trails within Athens-Clarke County, Georgia. The primary purpose of this system shall be the protection of the natural resources of the North Oconee, Middle Oconee, and Oconee rivers, their major tributaries and their floodplains for the benefit and enjoyment of the residents of Athens-Clarke County. Such plan shall also include guidelines for the implementation of the plan.
(d)
Advisory nature of commission; responsibility with regards to purchases of land. Such commission shall be advisory in nature and is charged with the responsibility of recommending to the mayor and commission parcels of land to be purchased or acquired by the Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County for inclusion in the Greenway system.
(e)
Authority generally. The Oconee Rivers Greenway Commission shall be authorized to:
(1)
Solicit private donations of land, easements and supplemental funds which shall be used for the establishment of the greenway system;
(2)
Seek federal, state and private foundation funds for the preservation and enhancement of the greenway system, or to further the purposes of such commission; conduct education programs about the greenway system and its resources in coordination with Leisure Services;
(3)
Recommend to the mayor and commission financial and/or other incentives to preserve, enhance or further the purposes of the Oconee Rivers Greenway Commission; and
(4)
Attend and take advantage of training available through state, federal or private agencies to further the education of the Oconee Rivers Greenway Commission members in accordance with established budget constraints.
(f)
Budgetary authority and accountability. The Oconee Rivers Greenway Commission is hereby authorized to develop and maintain an annual budget to cover costs of operation which shall be submitted to the mayor and commission for approval. The Oconee Rivers Greenway Commission shall account to the mayor and commission for the expenditure of such funds.
(g)
Assistance from other departments authorized. The Athens-Clarke County Leisure Services Department and other appropriate unified government departments are hereby authorized to offer assistance from time to time to the Oconee Rivers Greenway Commission.
(h)
Power to hire given. The Oconee Rivers Greenway Commission shall have the power to hire personnel as they deem proper.
(i)
Annual reports. The Oconee Rivers Greenway Commission shall make an annual report to the mayor and commission and such other reports as may be requested.
(Ord. of 1-7-92, § 1; Ord. of 7-2-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-6-99, § 1; Ord. of 4-6-2021(3), §§ 1—5 )
