ARTICLE I. - UNIFICATION, CREATION, BOUNDARIES, STATUS, AND POWERS OF UNIFIED GOVERNMENT
Section 1-101. Unification of county and city; creation of unified government; name.
Section 1-102. Boundaries.
Section 1-103. Status of unified government as municipal corporation and county.
Section 1-104. Powers of the unified government.
Section 1-105. Taxing districts.
Section 1-106. Construction.

Section 1-101. - Unification of county and city; creation of unified government; name.
(a)
The governmental and corporate powers, duties and functions now vested in the governing authority of the City of Athens, a municipal corporation created by an Act of the General Assembly of Georgia, approved April 11, 1979 (Ga.L. 1979, p. 3770), as amended, are hereby unified with the governmental and corporate powers, duties and functions of Clarke County. This unification shall result in the creation and establishment of a single county-wide government with powers and jurisdiction throughout the territorial limits of Clarke County, which single government shall supersede and replace the governments of the City of Athens and Clarke County. Said county-wide government shall be a new political entity, a body politic and corporate, and a political subdivision of the state, to be known as the "Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia," (herein at times called the "unified government,") having all the governmental and corporate powers, duties and functions heretofore held by and vested in the City of Athens and Clarke County, and also the powers, duties and functions provided in this Charter. Such unified government shall not include the municipal corporation of Winterville, Georgia, which shall retain its Charter and maintain the same legal relationship with the unified government as it had with Clarke County prior to the effective date of this Charter, except as otherwise provided in this Charter. The unified government shall be a public corporation; shall have perpetual existence; shall adopt a common seal; shall, without the necessity or formality of a deed, bill of sale or other instrument of transfer, own, possess and hold all the properties of whatsoever kind or nature, assets, contracts, franchises, things, rights, privileges, immunities, and real and personal property theretofore owned, possessed, enjoyed or held by the City of Athens or Clarke County; and by the name of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, shall be capable of suing and being sued when authorized by this Charter and by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia. From and after the effective date of this Charter, the political subdivision known as Clarke County, Georgia, and the municipal corporation known as the City of Athens, Georgia, shall be unified into the said new political entity herein created.
(b)
The unified government shall encourage the meaningful involvement in its operations of all citizens of Athens-Clarke County, particularly those who are members of minority or other traditionally disadvantaged groups, as appointees, employees and independent contractors. No individual shall be denied any opportunity on the basis of race, gender, religion, age, handicap or national origin.
(c)
The unification of the governments of the City of Athens and Clarke County is authorized pursuant to the provisions of article IX, section III, paragraph II(a) of the Constitution of Georgia of 1983, as amended.
Section 1-102. - Boundaries.
The unified government shall embrace the total area included within the existing territorial limits of Clarke County as such limits are fixed and established on the effective date of this Charter. However, such limits may be altered and changed from time to time as provided by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia pertaining to counties.
Section 1-103. - Status of unified government as municipal corporation and county.
The unified government shall be deemed to be both a municipal corporation and a county throughout the total territory of said government. It is the express intention of this section to declare as a city and as a part of the unified government all of the area of Clarke County, except for those areas within the boundaries of the cities of Winterville and Bogart.
Section 1-104. - Powers of the unified government.
(a)
The Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, shall have all powers of self-government authorized by the Constitution and not otherwise prohibited by the laws of Georgia.
(b)
In addition to the foregoing, the unified government shall have and be vested with, to the same extent as if herein repeated, all rights, powers, duties, privileges and authority that the mayor and council of the City of Athens or the commission of Clarke County, or both, has under the Constitution and general and local laws of the State of Georgia at the time of adoption of this Charter, except as herein expressly modified. This authority shall include, but shall not be limited to, the authority to adopt home rule ordinances and resolutions as provided in article IX, section II of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(c)
In addition to the foregoing, the unified government shall have all rights, powers, duties, privileges and authority herein conferred or herein enlarged, and such other rights, powers, duties, privileges and authority as may be necessary and proper for carrying the same into execution, and also all rights, powers, duties, privileges and authority, whether express or implied, that may be now vested in or hereafter granted to counties or municipal corporations, or both, by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, including the powers vested in the unified government by this Charter.
(d)
The unified government, in addition to the rights, duties, powers, privileges and authority expressly conferred upon it by this Charter, shall have the right, duty, power, privilege and authority to exercise and enjoy all other powers, duties, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary and proper to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security and general welfare of said government and its inhabitants and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein and to do and perform all of the acts pertaining to its property, affairs and local government which are necessary or proper in the legitimate exercise of its corporate powers and governmental duties and functions.
(e)
No enumeration of any right, power, privilege or authority hereinafter made shall be construed as limiting or abolishing any right, power, privilege or authority hereinabove set forth.
(f)
In addition to and supplementary to all other powers which it may possess, and by way of illustration and not of limitation, the unified government shall have the powers specifically enumerated in section 8-114 of this Charter.
Section 1-105. - Taxing districts.
(a)
The unified government shall divide the county into two (2) or more taxing districts (herein called "services districts"); provided, however, at least one of such districts shall be known as the "general services district." The general services district shall consist of the total area of Clarke County and shall include the area of the City of Winterville wherein all services provided in the general services area of Athens-Clarke County shall be made available to the citizens of the City of Winterville at the same rate such services are provided all citizens of the general services area pursuant to a contract executed between the governments of the City of Winterville and Athens-Clarke County for the amount of $1.00 for a period not to exceed fifty (50) years, as provided in article IX, section III, paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia. In addition, the commission shall establish at least one (1) or more Urban Services Districts which shall embrace such territory or territories for which provision is made by the commission for additional or higher levels of services than are provided uniformly throughout the territory of the unified government. Special services districts, which are those wherein specific services are provided to specific areas outside an urban services district, may also be created as provided in this Charter.
(b)
Taxes shall be assessed, levied and collected in accordance with the kind, character, type, degree and level of services provided by the government within said service districts, and the rate and manner of taxation may vary in any one district from that in another or other districts.
(c)
The unified government may also establish special services districts, which shall embrace such territory or territories for which provision is made by the commission for additional or higher levels of service(s) provided by the unified government.
(d)
In the establishment of the first urban services district or districts, the commission shall hold one or more public hearings thereon at which all interested persons affected thereby shall have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time, place and date of such hearings shall be published in the official legal organ of Athens-Clarke County at least once a week during the two (2) weeks immediately preceding the date of hearing.
(e)
In the establishment of special services districts, the commission shall hold one (1) or more public hearings thereon at which all interested persons affected thereby shall have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time, place and date of such hearings shall be published in the official legal organ of Athens-Clarke County at least once a week during the two (2) weeks immediately preceding the date of hearing.
(f)
The unified government is hereby empowered to exercise and provide within the general services district and within any urban and special services district established by this Charter or by ordinance of the commission those powers, functions and services which have theretofore been exercised and provided by Clarke County or the City of Athens, or both; all powers, functions and services authorized by this Charter, and any amendments thereto; and all powers, functions and services which counties or municipal corporations, or both, are now or are hereafter authorized to exercise under the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia.
(g)
The unified government shall perform within the general services district those governmental duties, functions and services which are generally available and accessible to all residents throughout the total area of said government.
(h)
The unified government shall perform within its urban services districts those additional, more comprehensive and intensive and higher levels of governmental duties, functions and services which benefit primarily the residents of such urban services districts.
(i)
The unified government shall perform within its special services districts those additionally selected, more comprehensive, intensive and higher levels of governmental duties, functions and services which benefit primarily the residents of such special services districts.
(j)
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, urban and special services districts of the unified government shall be created, expanded, merged, consolidated or reduced only by an ordinance duly adopted by the commission under such general rules, procedures, regulations, requirements and specifications as established by the commission; provided, however, no new urban or special service district shall be created or existing urban or special services district expanded, abolished, merged, consolidated or reduced without providing an opportunity for interested persons to be heard by publishing a notice of a public hearing on the proposed expansion, consolidation, reduction or creation of an urban or special services district in the official legal organ of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, at least once a week during the two (2) weeks immediately preceding the date of hearing. Such rules and regulations shall set forth the manner and method for the creation of new urban and special services districts; the expansion, consolidation, reduction or merger of existing urban or special services districts; requirements for defining functions and policies for rendering services; changes in levels of services within existing services districts; the transfer of territory from one services district to another; requirements for defining boundaries of services districts; procedures for the expansion, reduction or consolidation of existing services districts; and requirements for defining boundaries of services districts.
(k)
The unified government is empowered to create new services and eliminate existing services by the same procedures and methods stated above.
(l)
Citizens of any area in the county may request additional services by petitioning the unified government according to the rules, procedures and guidelines established by the unified government. The unified government will hold public hearings as outlined in the services district modification procedure stated above and will consider all comments received prior to reaching a final decision.
Section 1-106. - Construction.
The powers of the unified government shall be construed liberally in favor of the unified government. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers in this Charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of the unified government as provided in this article. It is the intention hereof to grant to the unified government full power and right to exercise all governmental authority authorized by the Constitution and laws of Georgia which is necessary for the effective operation and conduct of the unified government within its territory and for the conduct of all of its affairs.
