CHAPTER 3-16. - JUVENILE EVENING CURFEW
Sec. 3-16-1. Purposes.
Sec. 3-16-2. Definitions.
Sec. 3-16-3. Minors prohibited from being upon streets and other public places at certain evening hours; exceptions.
Sec. 3-16-4. Parental responsibility.
Sec. 3-16-5. Jurisdiction of juvenile and municipal courts.
Sec. 3-16-6. Severability.
Sec. 3-16-7. Reserved.

Sec. 3-16-1. - Purposes.
The Commission of Athens-Clarke County has determined that there has been an increase in juvenile violence and crime by persons under the age of 18 in Athens-Clarke County resulting in juveniles being involved in a wide range of unacceptable behavior by juveniles; that persons under the age of 18 are particularly susceptible by their lack of maturity and experience to participate in unlawful activity and to be victims of older perpetrators of crime; that there has been a significant breakdown in the supervision and guidance normally provided by parents for minors resulting in an increase in the crimes, substance abuse, and school dropout rates, juvenile pregnancy, and other illicit behavior. Athens-Clarke County has an obligation to provide for the protection of minors from each other and from other persons, for the enforcement of parental control over and responsibility for children, for the protection of the general public, and for the reduction of the incidence of juvenile criminal activities which are not easily controlled by existing laws and ordinances. The Commission of Athens-Clarke County has determined a curfew for those under the age of 18 will be in the interest of the public health, safety, and general welfare and will help to attain the foregoing objectives and to diminish the undesirable impact of such conduct on the citizens of Athens-Clarke County and will promote the public good, safety and welfare. Parental responsibility for the whereabouts of children is the accepted norm and legal sanctions to enforce such responsibility have had demonstrated effectiveness in many cities. The Commission of Athens-Clarke County has determined that a curfew ordinance will increase parental responsibility for minors within their control and decrease minor delinquency.
(Ord. of 8-5-97, § 1)
Sec. 3-16-2. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
(a)
Emergency errand: A mission that results from an unforeseen combination of circumstances that call for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, or automobile accident, or any situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
(b)
Minor: Any unemancipated person under the age of 18.
(c)
Public place: Any place to which the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, alleys or rights-of-way, to include sidewalks, parks, playgrounds, malls, or other places or buildings open to the public; any cemeteries, school yards, bodies of water or watercourses; any privately or publicly owned places of amusement, entertainment or public accommodation including parking lots; and any vacant lot or land.
(Ord. of 8-5-97, § 1)
Sec. 3-16-3. - Minors prohibited from being upon streets and other public places at certain evening hours; exceptions.
It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years to loiter, wander, stroll, or play in any public place unsupervised by his/her parent, legal guardian, or another adult over the age of 21, having the lawful care and custody of the minor and having the lawful authority to be at such places between the hours of 11:00 p.m. on any day and 5:00 a.m. of the following day; provided, however, that on Fridays and Saturdays the evening curfew shall begin at 12:00 midnight rather than 11:00 p.m.; and provided further that the provisions of this section shall not apply in the following instances:
(a)
When the minor is upon an emergency errand directed by his/her parent, guardian, or other adult person 21 years of age or older having the lawful care and custody of the minor;
(b)
When the minor is returning directly home from a school activity;
(c)
When the minor is traveling to, or returning directly home from, lawful employment that makes it necessary to be in above referenced places during the proscribed period of time;
(d)
When the minor is attending or traveling directly to or from an activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech, freedom of assembly, or free exercise of religion;
(e)
When the minor is engaged in interstate and intrastate vehicular travel through Athens-Clarke County with parental consent;
(f)
When the minor is on the sidewalk adjoining the property where the minor resides or on the property where the minor resides or on either side of or across the street from the property where the minor resides and the adult owner or resident of that property has given permission for the minor to be there; and
(g)
When the minor is married or has been married pursuant to state law.
(Ord. of 8-5-97, § 1)
Sec. 3-16-4. - Parental responsibility.
It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian, or other person having custody or control of any child under the age of 18 years to permit or, by insufficient control, to allow such minor to violate section 3-16-3 above. A person charged with violation of this section for the first time shall be given a warning citation. Upon subsequent violation, the person shall be charged with such violation and, if found guilty, such person shall be subject to punishment as provided in section 1-1-5 of the Code of Athens-Clarke County, Georgia.
(Ord. of 8-5-97, § 1)
Sec. 3-16-5. - Jurisdiction of juvenile and municipal courts.
Any minor under the age of 17 who violates section 3-16-3 above shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the juvenile court. Any minor 17 years of age who violates section 3-16-3 shall be subject to the jurisdiction of municipal court.
(Ord. of 8-5-97, § 1)
Sec. 3-16-6. - Severability.
If any provision, including any exception, section, subsection, part, sentence, clause, phrase, term, or portion of this chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof.
(Ord. of 8-5-97, § 1)
Sec. 3-16-7. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 2 of an ordinance enacted Aug. 3, 1999, repealed § 3-16-7, which pertained to the sunset and review by commission provisions enacted by Ord. of Aug. 5, 1997.
