CHAPTER 5. - CLASSIC CENTER AUTHORITY FOR CLARKE COUNTY
Georgia Laws 1988, p. 3799—Classic Center Authority for Clarke County—Creation
Sec. 1. Creation; purpose.
Sec. 2. Members.
Sec. 3. Public property.
Sec. 4. Powers.
Sec. 5. Power under revenue bond law.
Sec. 6. Credit not pledged.
Sec. 7. Legal investments.
Sec. 8. Contracts for use of projects.
Sec. 9. Revenue bonds.
Sec. 10. Rental revenue.
Sec. 11. Sinking fund.
Sec. 12. Form of bonds.
Sec. 13. Trust agreement.
Sec. 14. Venue of actions; jurisdiction.
Sec. 15. Validation of bonds.
Sec. 16. Irrevocable contract.
Sec. 17. Trust funds.
Sec. 18. Construction.
Sec. 19. Powers declared supplementary.
Sec. 20. Severability.
Sec. 21. Effective date.
Sec. 22. Repealer.
GEORGIA LAWS 1988, P. 3799—CLASSIC CENTER AUTHORITY FOR CLARKE COUNTY—CREATION

Sec. 1. - Creation; purpose.
(a)
There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Classic Center Authority for Clarke County, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation and by that name, style, and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(b)
The purpose of the authority shall be for the development and promotion in Clarke County and in this state of public projects for the cultural growth, public welfare, education, and recreation of the people of Clarke County and of this state, including the acquisition and construction of a building or buildings and related facilities, which shall be declared to be public buildings and structures, to be used for amusement, recreational, civil, cultural, parking, and educational purposes or a combination thereof, including fairs, expositions, exhibits, conventions, conferences, public meetings or gatherings, concerts, theaters, and for such other activities as are designed and intended to promote tourism and the arts, and for the purchase of land, easements, rights in land, and franchises for the construction of such facility or facilities and for use in connection therewith and any funds realized by said authority shall be expended for such purpose.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 1)
Sec. 2. - Members.
(a)
The authority shall consist of five (5) members who shall be appointed by the governing authority of Clarke County, Georgia. No elected official of any government or government agency shall be eligible to serve on said authority. The initial members shall be appointed for the following terms: one member for a term of two (2) years; two (2) members for terms of three (3) years; and two (2) members for terms of four (4) years. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for terms of four (4) years, except that the appointment of any person to fill any unexpired term shall be only for the remainder of such term. In no event shall any member serve for more than eight (8) consecutive years.
(b)
The members of the authority shall organize and enter upon the performance of their duties immediately after the effective date of this Act. The authority shall elect one of its members as chairman and one as vice chairman and shall elect a secretary-treasurer, who may or may not hold membership on the authority; however, if such secretary-treasurer is not a regularly appointed member of the authority, said position shall be ex officio. The officers shall serve for such terms as shall be prescribed by the rules of the authority or until their successors are elected and qualified.
(c)
Three (3) members of the authority shall constitute a quorum, and no vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority at every meeting, but in every instance the affirmative vote of at least three (3) members of the authority shall be required to authorize any legal act of the authority, including all things necessary to authorize and issue revenue bonds as provided for in this Act.
(d)
The members of the authority shall not be entitled to compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed by the authority for their actual expenses properly incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government and may employ professional staff and technical supervisors, assistants, and experts and any other agents and employees, temporary or permanent, it shall deem necessary and it shall establish the policies, rules, and regulations for the operations of its facilities as it may require. The members of the authority shall be accountable in all respects as trustees, and the authority shall keep suitable books and records of all its obligations, contracts, transactions, and undertakings and all income and receipts of every nature and of all expenditures of every kind. The financial books and records of the authority shall be audited annually by the same auditor employed to audit the books and records of the Clarke County government and said audit shall be paid for by the authority and copies shall be furnished to the Board of Commissioners of Clarke County. Said audit shall be public record.
(e)
The code of ethics applicable to the employees of the Board of Commissioners of Clarke County shall also be applicable in like force and effect to the members and employees of the authority.
(f)
The policy pertaining to minority business participation applicable to the Board of Commissioners and departments of Clarke County shall also be applicable in like force and effect to the members and employees of the authority.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 2; Ga. L. 1989, p. 4867, § 1)
Sec. 3. - Public property.
It is found, determined, and declared that the creation of the authority and the carrying out of its corporate purposes are in all respects for the benefit of the people of Clarke County and of this state and that the authority is an institution of purely public charity and that all property of said authority is and shall in all respects be considered to be public property and title to such property shall be held by the authority only for the benefit of the public, and the use of such property pursuant to the terms of this Act shall be and is declared to be for public and governmental purposes. The authority is granted the same exemptions and exclusions from taxes as are now granted to cities and counties for the operation of public facilities. Should the authority ever be dissolved for any reason, the total of real property and other assets held by the authority shall revert to the Board of Commissioners of Clarke County.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 3)
Sec. 4. - Powers.
The authority shall have all the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of this Act, including, but not limited to, the following powers:
(1)
To adopt and alter a corporate seal;
(2)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or rights of easements therein or franchises and personal property necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes and to use, lease, and dispose of real and personal property in any manner it deems to be to the best advantage of the authority and the purposes thereof. Title to such property, however, shall be held by the authority only for the benefit of the public;
(3)
To accept, receive, and administer gifts, grants, loans, appropriations, and donations of money, materials, and property of any kind, including loans and grants from the United States or the State of Georgia or any agency, department, authority, or instrumentality of either upon such terms and conditions as the United States, the State of Georgia, or such agency, department, authority, or instrumentality shall impose; to administer trusts; and to sell, lease, transfer, convey, appropriate, pledge, mortgage, or encumber all of its property and assets; provided, however, that the sale, transfer, encumbrance, or conveyance of real property shall require the prior approval of the Board of Commissioners of Clarke County;
(4)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and, with the prior approval of the governing authority of Clarke County, to issue revenue bonds payable from the earnings of the projects of the authority; to execute trust agreements or indentures; and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge, encumber, and assign any and all of its funds, assets, property, and income as security for the payment of such revenue bonds and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof; and to provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default either in payment of principal or of conditions pursuant to which such obligations were issued;
(5)
To contract with the State of Georgia and the agencies, instrumentalities, departments, and political subdivisions thereof and with private persons and corporations in such manner as the legitimate and necessary purposes of this Act shall authorize or require, including contracts for construction and leasing, as lessor or as lessee, or projects which it causes to be erected or acquired;
(6)
To construct, reconstruct, acquire, equip, own, alter, repair, maintain, add to, extend, improve, operate, and manage public projects, including the erection of a building or buildings in Clarke County, Georgia, which shall be and are declared to be public buildings, to be used for amusement, recreation, civic, cultural, and educational purposes or a combination thereof, including fairs, expositions, concerts, theater, and such other activities as are designed and intended to promote education, culture, and tourism; and to purchase lands, easements, rights in land, and franchises for the construction of such facility or facilities and for use in connection therewith, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of the sale of revenue bonds of the authority, as provided for in this Act, and the title to such property to be held by the authority only for the benefit of the public;
(7)
With the prior approval of the governing authority of Clarke County, Georgia, to issue revenue bonds as authorized, defined, and provided for in this Act and in Article 3, Chapter 82, Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Revenue Bond Law," in order to finance in whole or in part the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, equipment, addition to, or extension of any such project, which bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to the principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest;
(8)
With the prior approval of the governing authority of Clarke County, Georgia, to issue revenue bonds; to call, refund, or refinance in whole or in part all outstanding revenue bonds secured by the anticipated revenue of such project; and to include in the amount of such refunding bonds all interest and any call premium that may be required for the redemption and refunding of such outstanding bonds;
(9)
To do any and all things necessary or proper for the accomplishment of the objectives of this Act and any amendments hereto and to exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this state; and
(10)
To invest any accumulation of its funds and any sinking fund or reserves in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or its political subdivisions may be invested and to purchase its own bonds at a price of not more than the call price thereof and accrued interest, but bonds so purchased shall be canceled and shall not be reissued.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 4)
Sec. 5. - Power under revenue bond law.
In addition to the foregoing powers and subject to any limitations herein contained, the authority shall have all the powers of municipalities under the provisions of Article 3, Chapter 82, Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Revenue Bond Law," and shall have the power to expend such sums as may be necessary for the survey, study, financing, construction, and completion of any such project and the placing of the same in operation.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 5)
Sec. 6. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not constitute a debt or a pledge of the faith and credit of Clarke County, Georgia, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the rentals, revenues, and funds of the authority as provided in the resolutions or trust agreements or indentures authorizing or securing the issuance and payment of such bonds. The issuance of such bonds shall not obligate the county to levy or pledge any form of taxation whatsoever for the payment thereof or to make any appropriation for their payment, and such bonds shall contain on their face a recital setting forth substantially the foregoing provisions of this Act.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 6)
Sec. 7. - Legal investments.
The bonds herein authorized are made securities in which all public officers and bodies of this state and all political subdivisions; all insurance companies and associations and other persons carrying on an insurance business; all banks, bankers, trust companies, savings banks and savings associations, including savings and loan associations, building and loan associations, investment companies, and other persons carrying on a banking business; all administrators, guardians, executors, trustees and other fiduciaries; and all other persons whatsoever who are now or may hereafter be authorized to invest in bonds or other obligations of the state may properly and legally invest funds, including capital, in their control or belonging to them. The bonds are also made securities which may be deposited with and shall be received by all public officers and bodies of this state and all political subdivisions thereof for any purpose for which the deposit of the bonds or other obligations of this state is now or may hereafter be authorized.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 7)
Sec. 8. - Contracts for use of projects.
The authority may contract with one or more political subdivisions of this state for the payment of rents, fees, and charges for the use of the projects or projects and facilities of the authority by the political subdivisions or the residents thereof or for the payment by the authority for the use of any public property of the political subdivision. The rentals contracted to be paid by the lessees or tenants to the authority under the contract entered into pursuant to the provisions of this Act shall constitute general obligations of the political subdivision, and the full faith and credit of the political subdivision may be pledged to provide the funds required to fulfill all obligations arising under any such contract. Any political subdivision which shall have entered into a contract pursuant to the provisions of this Act shall annually in each and every fiscal year during the term of the contract include in the general revenue or appropriation measure sums sufficient to satisfy the payments required to be made in each year by such contract until all payments required under such contract have been paid in full. In the event that for any reason any such provision or appropriation is not made, then the fiscal officers of such political subdivision are authorized and directed to set up as an appropriation on their accounts in each fiscal year the amounts required to pay the obligations of such contract as authorized and required, which amounts shall be due and payable and shall be expended for the purpose of paying and meeting the obligations provided under the terms and conditions of such contract, and such appropriation shall have the same legal status as if the contracting political subdivision had included the amount of the appropriation in its general revenue or appropriation measure. The fiscal officers of the political subdivision shall make such payment to the authority if for any reason such appropriation is not otherwise made, and any such political subdivision may obligate itself and its successors to use only such structure, building, or facilities constituting such project and none other.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 8)
Sec. 9. - Revenue bonds.
Subject to the limitations contained in this Act, the authority shall have power and is authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue bonds of the authority for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any one or a combination of its projects. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable from and may be secured by a pledge of rents, fees, charges, and other revenues of, and by the mortgage of, all or any part of the project or projects financed in whole or in part with the proceeds of such bonds or with the proceeds of bonds called and refunded or to be called and refunded by such issue. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall mature, and shall be payable as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority within the terms of Article 3, Chapter 82, Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Revenue Bond Law," except as to any limitation as to interest which may be contained therein, and the bonds may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be deposited as may be directed in the resolution or trust instrument providing for the issuance of and security for such bonds.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 9)
Sec. 10. - Rental revenue.
(a)
For the purpose of earning sufficient revenue to make possible the financing of the construction of the project or projects of the authority with revenue bonds, the cost of which shall include all elements of costs authorized by Article 3, Chapter 82, of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Revenue Bond Law," the authority is authorized and empowered to fix, revise, and collect rents, fees, and charges on each project which it shall cause to be acquired or constructed. Such rentals, fees, or charges to be paid for the use of such project or projects shall be so fixed and adjusted as to provide a fund sufficient with other revenue, if any, of such project or projects to:
(1)
Pay the cost of operating, maintaining, and repairing the project or projects, including reserves for insurance and extraordinary repairs and other reserves required by the resolution or trust agreement or indenture pertaining to such bonds and the issuance thereof, unless such cost shall be otherwise provided for;
(2)
Pay the principal and interest on such revenue bonds as the same shall become due, including premiums, if any, the proceeds of which shall have been or will be used to pay the cost of such project or projects, including all elements of cost authorized by Article 3, Chapter 82, Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Revenue Bond Law";
(3)
Comply with any sinking fund requirements contained in the resolution or trust agreement or indenture pertaining to the issuance of and security for such bonds;
(4)
Perform fully all provisions of such resolution or trust agreement or indenture relating to the issuance of or security for such bonds to the payment of which such rental is pledged;
(5)
Accumulate any excess income which may be required by the purchasers of such bonds or which may be dictated by the requirements of such resolution or trust agreement or indenture or by the need to achieve ready marketability of and low interest rates on such bonds; and
(6)
Pay any expenses in connection with such bond issue or such project or projects including, but not limited to, trustees, counsel, and fiscal fees.
(b)
The rentals shall be payable at such intervals as may be agreed upon and set forth in the rental contract or lease providing therefor and any such contract or lease may provide for the commencement of rental payments to the authority prior to the completion of the undertaking by the authority of any such project, and the rental may provide for the payment of rental charges during such times as the project or projects may be partially or wholly untenable.
(c)
The rental contract or lease may obligate the tenants or lessees to operate, maintain, and keep in good repair, including complete reconstruction, if necessary, the rented or leased premises and projects, regardless of the cause of the necessity of such maintenance, repair, or reconstruction.
(d)
Such rental contract or lease may obligate the tenants or lessees to indemnify and save harmless the authority from any and all damage to persons and property occurring on or by reason of the leased property or improvements thereon and to undertake, at the expense of the tenants or lessees, the defense of any action brought against the authority by reason of injury or damages to persons or property occurring on or by reason of the leased premises.
(e)
In the event of any failure or refusal on the part of the tenants or lessees to perform punctually any covenant or obligation contained in any such rental contract or lease, the authority may enforce performance by any legal or equitable process against the tenants or lessees, and consent may be given for the institution of any such action.
(f)
The authority shall be permitted to assign any rental payments due or to become due to the authority, pursuant to any such rental contract or lease, to a trustee or paying agent as may be required by the terms of the resolution or trust agreement or indenture relating to the issuance of and security for such bonds.
(g)
The use and disposition of the authority's revenue shall be subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or of the trust agreement or indenture, if any, securing the same.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 10)
Sec. 11. - Sinking fund.
(a)
The revenues, rents, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects and any and all revenues, rents, and earnings received by the authority, regardless of whether or not such revenues, rents, and earnings were produced by a particular project for which bonds were issued, may be pledged by the authority to the payment of the principal of and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as may be provided in any resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received may include funds received from one or more or all sources and may be set aside at regular intervals into a sinking fund for which provision may be made in any such resolution or trust instrument, which sinking fund may be pledged to and charged with the payment of:
(1)
The interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall become due;
(2)
The principal of the bonds as the same shall mature;
(3)
The necessary charges of any trustee or paying agent or registrar for such bonds; and
(4)
Any premium upon bonds retired upon call or purchase.
(b)
The use and disposition of any sinking fund may be subject to such regulations as may be provided for in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument securing the payment of the same. Except as may otherwise be provided in the resolution or trust instrument, the sinking fund shall be maintained as a trust account for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution or the trust instrument, any surplus moneys in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be canceled and shall not be reissued, printed, and delivered.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 11)
Sec. 12. - Form of bonds.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company inside or outside the State of Georgia.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 12)
Sec. 13. - Trust agreement.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of revenue bonds may be secured by a trust agreement or indenture made by the authority with a corporate trustee which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company inside or outside the State of Georgia. Such trust agreement or indenture may pledge or assign rents, fees, charges, revenues, and earnings to be received by the authority and any proceeds which may be derived from the disposition of any real or personal property of the authority or the proceeds of insurance carried thereon. The resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds and such trust agreement or indenture may contain provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders, including the right of foreclosure of any mortgage or encumbrance and the right of appointment of a receiver upon default in the payment of any principal or interest obligation and the right of any receiver or trustee to enforce collection of any rents, fees, charges, or revenues for the use of the project necessary to pay all costs of operation and all reserves provided for, the principal of and interest on all bonds in the issue, all costs of collection, and all other costs reasonably necessary to accomplish the collection of such sums in the event of any default of the authority. Such resolution or trust agreement or indenture may include covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property for and construction of the project and to the custody, safeguarding, and application of all funds of the authority, including any proceeds derived from the disposition of any real or personal property of the authority or the proceeds of insurance carried thereon; and covenants providing for the operation, maintenance, repair, and insurance of the project may contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional bonds may be issued. Such resolution or trust agreement or indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee and may restrict the individual right of action of any bondholder as is customary in securing bonds and debentures of corporations and may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation, and repair of the project affected by such trust.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 13)
Sec. 14. - Venue of actions; jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act brought in the courts of the State of Georgia shall be brought in the Superior Court of Clarke County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of the bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall be brought in said court, which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such action.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 14)
Sec. 15. - Validation of bonds.
All bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in the Superior Court of Clarke County in accordance with the procedure of Article 3, Chapter 82, Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Revenue Bond Law." The petition for validation shall be brought against said authority and, in the event the payments to be made by any political subdivision under a contract entered into between the authority and such political subdivision are pledged as security for the payment of the bonds sought to be validated, such political subdivision shall also be required to show cause, if any exists, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be adjudicated to be in all respects valid and binding upon such defendants. It shall be incumbent upon such defendants to defend against adjudication of the validity and binding effect of such contract or contracts or be forever bound thereby. Notice of such proceedings shall be included in the notice of validation hearing required to be issued and published by the Clerk of the Superior Court of Clarke County, in which court such validation proceeding shall be initiated. Any citizen of the State of Georgia may intervene in the validation proceeding in accordance with the procedure prescribed in Article 3, Chapter 82, Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Revenue Bond Law," and appeal from the judgment in said proceeding may be taken in accordance with the appellate procedure prescribed in said law. In the event no such appeal is filed within the time prescribed by law, or if filed, the judgment of the Superior Court of Clarke County so confirming and validating the validity and binding effect of such contract or contracts and of such bonds and the security therefor shall be forever conclusive.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 15)
Sec. 16. - Irrevocable contract.
The authority shall have perpetual existence, and, while any of the bonds issued by the authority shall remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of the authority or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished, impaired, or affected in any manner which will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other authority, instrumentality, or body will be created or empowered to compete with the authority so as to affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the state, the authority, and every holder of the authority's bonds and, upon and after the issuance of bonds under the provisions of this Act, shall constitute an irrevocable contract with the holders of such bonds.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 16)
Sec. 17. - Trust funds.
All funds received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds or as revenues, rents, fees, charges, or other earnings or as gifts, grants, or other contributions, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act, and bondholders entitled to receive the benefits of such funds shall have a lien on all such funds until applied as provided for in any such resolution, trust agreement, or indenture of the authority.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 17)
Sec. 18. - Construction.
This Act, being for the welfare of the state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the proposes [purposes] hereof.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 18)
Sec. 19. - Powers declared supplementary.
The provisions of this Act shall be regarded as supplementary and additional to powers conferred by other laws and shall not be regarded as being in derogation of any powers now existing. The provisions of Article 3, Chapter 82, Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Revenue Bond Law," which are not in conflict herewith shall be applicable hereto and to the bonds issued hereunder and to any resolution or trust instrument adopted and entered into in order to provide for the payment of such bonds and the interest thereon. All bonds issued hereunder shall be signed in accordance with Code Section 50-17-1 of the O.C.G.A., relating to use of facsimile signatures on public securities. The General Assembly declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this Act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 19)
Sec. 20. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this Act, which shall remain of full force and effect as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this Act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 20)
Sec. 21. - Effective date.
This Act shall become effective immediately upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 21)
Sec. 22. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
(Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799, § 22)
