ARTICLE 1. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 3-5-1. - Definitions of words and phrases.
(a)
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall for the purpose of this chapter have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section, except when the context otherwise requires.
(b)
Whenever any words and phrases used in this chapter are not defined herein but are defined in the state laws regulating the operation of Personal Transportation (PTVs) and other vehicles, any such definition therein shall be deemed to apply to such words and phrases used herein, except when the context otherwise requires.
(1)
Alley. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or buildings in urban districts and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(2)
Arterial street. Any U.S. or state numbered route, controlled access highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
(3)
Authorized emergency vehicle. Such Fire Department vehicles, Sheriff's Department vehicles, ambulances as are publicly owned, and such other publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated or authorized by the Sheriff's Department or the Augusta, Georgia Commission.
(4)
Bicycle. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride, having two (2) tandem wheels either of which is more than fourteen (14) inches in diameter.
(5)
Bus. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten (10) passengers and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
(6)
Business district. The territory contiguous to and including a highway, when within any six hundred (600) feet along such roadway, there are buildings in use for business or industrial purposes, including but not limited to hotels, banks or office buildings, railroad stations and public buildings which occupy at least three hundred (300) feet of frontage on one (1) side or three hundred (300) feet collectively on both sides of the roadway, provided that such business district is designated and marked as such by the traffic engineer.
(7)
Commercial PTV Operator. A business or other entity providing transportation services to the public using PTVs.
(8)
Crosswalk.
(i)
That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the roadway measured from the curbs or in the absence of curbs, from the edges of the traversable roadway;
(ii)
Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
(9)
Driver or Operator. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(10)
Driver's license. Any license to operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of this state.
(11)
Employer PTV Operator. A business or other entity having an office or business in an area designated for PTV use that provides transportation services for its employees using PTVs.
(12)
"Golf cart" a/k/a "golf car". A vehicle whose designed purpose and exclusive use is to convey a person or persons and equipment to play the game of golf in an area designated as a golf course. To qualify as a golf car the vehicle's average speed shall be less than (24 km/h) 15 MPH on a horizontally level surface. 0.5% grade (0.3 degrees) comprised of a straight course composed of a concrete or asphalt surface that is dry and free from loose material or surface contamination with a minimum coefficient of friction of 0.8 between tire and surface.
(13)
Gross weight. The weight of a vehicle without load plus the weight of any load thereon.
(14)
Highway or street. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular traffic.
(15)
House trailer.
(i)
A trailer or semitrailer which is designed, constructed and equipped as a dwelling place, living abode or sleeping place (either permanently or temporarily) and is equipped for use as a conveyance on streets or highways; or
(ii)
A trailer or a semitrailer whose chassis and exterior shell is designed and constructed for use as a house trailer, as defined in paragraph (a), but which is used instead permanently or temporarily for the advertising, sales, display or promotion of merchandise or services or for any other commercial purpose except the transportation of property for hire or the transportation of property for distribution by a private carrier.
(16)
Intersection.
(i)
The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
(ii)
Where a highway includes two (2) roadways thirty (30) feet or more apart, every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event such intersecting highway also includes two (2) roadways thirty (30) feet or more apart, every crossing of two (2) roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
(17)
Laned roadway. A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
(18)
Light Transportation Vehicle. The following motor vehicles comprise the classification of Light Transportation Vehicle: Motorized Carts. Personal Transportation Vehicles; Light Utility Vehicles; and Low Speed Vehicles.
(19)
Light Utility Vehicle. A Light Utility Vehicle is any self-propelled, operator-controlled, off-road vehicle 72 inches or less in overall width, exclusive of added accessories and attachments, operable on three or more wheels, primarily intended to transport material loads or people, with a gross vehicle weight of 5,500 pounds or less, and a maximum average speed less than 25 miles per hour.
(20)
Limited-access highway. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right of access to or from the same except at such points only and in such manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over such highway, street or roadway.
(21)
Loading zone. A space reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or property.
(22)
Low Speed Vehicle. A low-speed vehicle (LSV) is any four-wheeled electric vehicle whose top speed attainable in one mile is greater than 20 miles per hour but not greater than 25 miles per hour on a paved level surface.
(23)
Motorized Cart. "Motorized Cart" is the term formerly used for "Personal Transportation Vehicle" or "PTV". Whenever the term "Motorized Cart" appears in this Code it shall be construed to mean a PTV.
(24)
Motor vehicle. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, either by internal-combustion engine or by electric power.
(25)
Motorcycle. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, but excluding a tractor.
(26)
Multipurpose off-highway vehicle. A vehicle having features specifically intended for utility use and having the following characteristics:
(i)
intended to transport persons and/or cargo, with a top speed in excess of 25 mph (40.2 km/h) but not more than 50 mph (80.4 km/h)
(ii)
2030 mm (80 in) or less in overall width
(iii)
designed to travel on four or more wheels
(iv)
using a steering wheel for steering control
(v)
with a non-straddle seat
(vi)
with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating of no more than 1814 kg (4000 lb), and
(vii)
a minimum cargo capacity of 159 kg (350 lb). Width shall be exclusive of accessories and attachments.
(27)
Officer. Every officer of the Richmond County Sheriff's Department or any officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
(28)
Official time standard. Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in Augusta. Georgia.
(29)
Official traffic-control devices. All signs, signals, markings and devices not inconsistent with this chapter and the laws of this state placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(30)
Park or parking. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, other than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
(31)
Passenger curb loading zone. A place reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles while receiving or discharging passengers.
(32)
Pedestrian. Any person afoot.
(33)
Person. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or corporation.
(34)
Personal Transportation Vehicle. Personal transportation vehicle" or "PTV" means any motor vehicle:
(i)
With a minimum of four wheels;
(ii)
Capable of a maximum level ground speed of less than 20 miles per hour;
(iii)
With a maximum gross vehicle unladen or empty weight of 1,375 pounds; and
(iv)
Capable of transporting not more than eight persons.
The term does not include mobility aids, including power wheelchairs and scooters, that can be used indoors and outdoors for the express purpose of enabling mobility for a person with a disability. The term also does not include ATVs or multipurpose off highway vehicles.
(35)
Private road or driveway. Every way or place in private ownership and used for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
(36)
Railroad. A carrier of persons or property upon cars operated from stationary rails.
(37)
Railroad sign or signal. Any sign, signal or device erected by authority of a public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
(38)
Railroad train. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
(39)
Residence district. The territory contiguous to and including a highway, not comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance of three hundred (300) feet or more, is predominantly residential in nature.
(40)
Right-of-way. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
(41)
Road or roadway. That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term roadway as used herein shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(42)
Safety zone. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart as a safety zone.
(43)
Sheriff. The Sheriff of Richmond County, Georgia.
(44)
Sidewalk. That portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by pedestrians.
(45)
Stand or standing. The halting of a vehicle whether occupied or not, other than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or discharging passengers.
(46)
Stop. When required, means complete cessation from movement.
(47)
Stop or stopping. When prohibited, means any halting, even momentarily. of a vehicle, whether occupied or not except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign or signal.
(48)
Street. The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(49)
Through street or road. Every street or road or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic is given preferential right of way, and at the entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersection streets or roads is required by law to yield the right-of-way to vehicles on such through street or road in obedience to a stop sign, yield sign, or other traffic-control device, when such signs or devices are erected as provided in this Code and the laws of this state.
(50)
Tractor.
(i)
Truck tractor. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
(ii)
Farm tractor. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm implement for drawing plows, mowing machines, and other implements of husbandry.
(iii)
Road tractor. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
(51)
Traffic. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of travel.
(52)
Traffic-control signal. Any device, whether manually, electrically or mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternatively directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
(53)
Traffic division. The traffic division of the Richmond County Sheriff's Department, or in the event a traffic division is not established, then said term whenever used herein shall be deemed to refer to the Sheriff's Department.
(54)
Truck. Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the transportation of property.
(55)
Vehicle. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
( Ord. No. 7120 , § 1(exh. A), 4-1-2009; Ord. No. 7621 , § 2(exh. B), 6-19-2018)
Sec. 3-5-2. - Parking on property of others.
(a)
Consent, compliance with signs or markings required. It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle, including any truck, passenger automobile, motorbike, motorscooter or any other vehicle upon any private owned property, parking lot or driveway, without the consent of the owner, lessee, tenant or other person entitled to possession and use of such premises; and as to any property on which the public is invited, implicitly or otherwise, to park such vehicles, whether the same be owned privately or by a governmental agency, the owner, lessee, tenant or other person entitled to possession and use of such premises may designate by signs or appropriate markings on the parking area the places where such vehicles may be parked, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park any such vehicle contrary to such signs or markings.
(b)
Removal; impoundment. It shall be the duty of the Richmond County Sheriff's Department, upon a complaint being made by the owner, lessee, tenant or other person having the right to use such premises, to impound any such vehicle parked in violation of this section and store such vehicle as other vehicles impounded upon the streets of the county are stored.
(c)
Violations; penalties. Any person who shall violate this section shall be charged with each and every violation and, upon being found guilty, shall be punished by a fine in an amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) and/or imprisonment in the county jail for a period not in excess of thirty (30) days.
Sec. 3-5-3. - Trespass by motor vehicle.
(a)
A person commits the offense of trespass by motor vehicle when the person, after having been requested not to do so by a law enforcement officer or by the owner or an authorized agent of the owner, parks or stands an occupied or unoccupied motor vehicle in, or repeatedly drives a motor vehicle through or within, a parking area which is located on privately owned property and is provided by a merchant, a group of merchants, or a shopping center or other similar facility for customers if:
(1)
The parking area is identified by at least one (1) sign as specified in this paragraph, and if the parking area contains more than one hundred fifty (150) parking spaces then by at least one (1) sign for every one hundred fifty (150) parking spaces, each such sign containing the following information in easy-to-read printing:
a.
Notice of the elements of the Augusta-Richmond County ordinance of trespass by motor vehicle;
b.
Identification of the property which is reserved for customers' use only;
c.
Identification of the merchant, group of merchants, or shopping center or other similar facility providing the parking area; and
d.
Warning that violators will be prosecuted; and
(2)
The motor vehicle is parked, is standing, or is being operated other than for the purpose of:
a.
Transporting some person to or from the interior of the place of business of a merchant identified by the sign or signs in the parking area or to or from the interior of the shopping center or other facility so identified;
b.
Making use of a telephone, vending machine, automatic teller machine, or other similar facility located in the parking area;
c.
Meeting the requirements of a situation in which it has unexpectedly become impossible or impractical for the motor vehicle to continue to travel on the public roads; or
d.
Carrying out an activity for which express permission has been given by the owner of the parking area or an authorized representative of the owner.
(b)
Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject to a monetary fine:
(1)
Not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first such violation;
(2)
Not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the second such violation; and
(3)
Not to exceed one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for the third or subsequent such violation.
Sec. 3-5-4. - Licenses for motor vehicles; drivers.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to own or operate any motor vehicle required to be registered under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 4-2-201, as amended, without complying with said section.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle in Augusta-Richmond County in violation of O.C.G.A. §§ 40-5-120 -40-5-124.
Sec. 3-5-5. - Insurance.
An owner or any other person within Augusta-Richmond County who knowingly operates, or knowingly authorizes another to operate, a motor vehicle without effective insurance thereon or without an approved plan of self-insurance as required by Georgia Code Section 33-34-1 et seq., the Georgia Motor Vehicle Accident Reparation's Act, shall be guilty of a violation of this Code.
