Chapter 7 - WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED PROTECTION ORDINANCE[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 6094 , § 1, adopted Oct. 20, 1998, set forth provisions for a new Chapter 7 to read as herein set out. See also the Code Comparative Table.

Sec. 8-7-1. - Authority.
The Augusta Commission was authorized by the Home Rule Provision of the constitution of the State of Georgia of 1983 to: establish planning commissions; provide for the preparation and amendment of overall plans for the orderly growth and development of municipalities and counties; provide for the regulations of structures on mapped streets, public building sites, and public open spaces; repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes. The Augusta Planning and Development Department, created and organized under the terms of the aforementioned Home Rule Provision, has made a study and analysis of the provisions of O.C.G.A. §12-2-8 and Chapter 391-3-16, Rules for Environmental Planning Criteria, Georgia Department of natural Resources, environmental Planning Division, and determined that this Water Supply Watershed Protection Ordinance conforms to the minimum requirements.
( Ord. No. 7290 , § 8-7-1, 9-6-2011)
Sec. 8-7-2. - Purpose.
In order to provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the public and a healthy economic climate within Augusta-Richmond County, it is essential that the quality of public drinking water be assured. The ability of natural systems to filter stormwater runoff can be threatened by unrestricted urban and suburban development. Land disturbing activities associated with development can increase erosion and sedimentation that threatens the storage capacity of reservoirs. In addition, stormwater runoff, particularly from impervious surfaces, can introduce toxicants, nutrients, and sediment into drinking water supplies, making water treatment more complicated, expensive and rendering water resources unusable. Industrial land uses that involve the manufacture, use, transport and storage of hazardous or toxic waste materials result in the potential risk of contamination of nearby public drinking water supplies.
The purpose of the water supply watershed protection district regulation is to establish measures to protect the quality and quantity of the present and future water supply for the city of Augusta, Georgia; to minimize the transport of pollutants and sediments to water supplies; and maintain the yield of the water supply watersheds.
( Ord. No. 7290 , § 8-7-2, 9-6-2011)
Sec. 8-7-3. - Title.
This Ordinance shall be known as the Water Supply Watershed Protection Ordinance of Augusta, Georgia.
( Ord. No. 7290 , § 8-7-3, 9-6-2011)
Sec. 8-7-4. - District delineation.
The protected water supply watershed district is hereby designated and shall comprise the land that drains to Augusta, Georgia's public water supply intake as follows:
(a)
Savannah River watershed. The Savannah River Water Supply Watershed District is hereby designated and shall comprise the land that drains to Augusta, Georgia's water supply intake. The boundary of the district is defined by the ridge line of the Savannah River watershed and the boundary of a radius seven (7) miles upstream of the public water supply intake on the Augusta Canal. This district shall be further delineated and defined on the Water Supply Watershed Protection District Overlay Map of the Official Zoning Map of Augusta-Richmond County, which is hereby incorporated and made a part of this ordinance by reference.
(b)
Each parcel of land within the Watershed Protection District shall be subject to the provisions, regulations, and restrictions of both the Watershed Protection District Ordinance and the underlying zoning district(s), as delineated in the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance for Augusta, Georgia. In the event of a conflict or discrepancy between the requirements of the Watershed Protection District Ordinance and the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance, the more stringent shall apply.
(c)
Savannah River watershed; permitted uses and conditions. All uses allowed in the underlying zoning districts are permitted in the Savannah River Water Supply Watershed Protection District, subject to the following limitation as to Hazardous Materials Handlers: New facilities, located within a seven (7) mile radius upstream of Augusta, Georgia's public water intake on the Augusta Canal, which handle hazardous materials of the types and amounts determined by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources (DNR), shall perform their operations on impermeable surfaces having spill and leak collection systems as prescribed by DNR.
( Ord. No. 7290 , § 8-7-4, 9-6-2011)
Sec. 8-7-5. - Site plan requirements.
All applications for a development permit within the Watershed Protection District shall be required to have a site plan submitted and approved by the Augusta Planning and Development Department before any building permits may be approved or any land disturbing activity may take place. Each site plan submitted shall include all of the information in Article III, Sections 300-303 of the Site Plan Regulations for Augusta, Georgia. In addition, any hazardous materials handler shall provide location and detailed designed of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing accidentally released hazardous waste.
(a)
Approval process. The approval process for a site plan submitted in accordance with this ordinance shall be the same as the procedures specified in Article II of the Site Plan Regulations for Augusta, Georgia.
(b)
Hardships and variances. Variances to decisions on permit applications shall be handled in the manner specified by Article IV, Section 400 of the Site Plan Regulations for Augusta, Georgia.
(c)
Activity compliance. All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform with the specifications of said site plan.
( Ord. No. 6094 , 10-20-1998; Ord. No. 7290 , § 8-7-5, 9-6-2011)
