ARTICLE 1. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 5-1. - County probation system.
(a)
This Code section shall apply to county probations systems, including state court adult probation systems, of each county having a population of more than 100,000 in any metropolitan statistical area having a population of not less than 200,000 nor more than 230,000 according to the United States decennial census of 1980 or any future such census, any provision of Code section 42-8-43 to the contrary notwithstanding. The department shall participate in the cost of the county probation systems subject to this Code section for fiscal year 1987-88. The department shall compute the state cost per probationer on a state-wide basis for such fiscal year pursuant to the formula used by the office of planning and budget to determine the state cost for probation for budgetary purposes. For said fiscal year, the department shall pay to the governing authority of each county maintaining a county probation system subject to this Code section 10 percent of the state-wide cost per probationer for each probationer being supervised under the respective county probation system as of the first day of said fiscal year. The funds necessary to participate in the cost of county probation systems under this subsection shall come from funds appropriated to the department for the purposes of providing state participation in the cost of county probation systems. The payments to counties provided for in this subsection shall be made by, or pursuant to the order of, the department in single lump sum payment for fiscal year 1987-88, with the payment being made by May 1, 1988. As a condition necessary for a county to qualify for department participation in the cost of the county's probation system, the county shall cause to be made an independent audit of the financial affairs and transactions of all funds and activities of the county probation system and agree to be responsible for any discrepancies, obligations, debts, or liabilities of such county probation system which may exist prior to the department's participation in the cost of the county's probation system. As a further condition necessary for a county to qualify for department participation in the cost of the county's probation system, the employees of such county probation systems shall be subject to the supervision, control, and direction of the department.
(b)
The county probation system of any such county shall become a part of the state-wide probation system provided for by this article effective July 1, 1988, and shall be fully funded from state funds as part of the state-wide probation system beginning with fiscal year 1988-89. The employees of such county probation system, at their option, shall become employees of the department on the date said county system becomes a part of the statewide probation system and, on or after said date, said employees shall be subject to the salary schedules and other personnel policies of the department, except that the salaries of such employees shall not be reduced as a result of becoming employees of the department.
(c)
When an employee of a county probation system becomes an employee of the department pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section at the same or a greater salary, the change in employment shall not constitute involuntary separation from service or termination of employment within the meaning of any local retirement of pension system of which the employee was a member at the time of such change in employment, and the change in employment shall not entitle the employee to begin receiving any retirement or pension benefit whatsoever under any such local retirement or pension system.
(d)
No leave time accrued by an employee of a county probation system shall be transferred when the employee becomes a state employee. Any leave time accrued by an employee of such county probation system shall be satisfied as a debt owed to the employee by the county.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 1319, § 1)
Sec. 5-2—5-51. - Reserved.
Sec. 5-52. - Jury clerk and other personnel.
In all counties of this state having a population of not less than 145,000 and not more than 165,000, according to the United States Decennial Census of 1970, or any such future census, the senior judge of the superior court of such counties shall have the power to appoint a jury clerk and such other personnel as may be deemed necessary or advisable to dispatch the work of the court, and the appointments to these positions and the compensation therefor shall be determined by said judge without regard to any other system or rules, said personnel to serve at the pleasure of said judge, and the salaries and expenses thereof, and any attendant expense of administration of the courts are hereby determined to be contingent expense of court, and shall be paid as provided by law for the payment of contingent expenses. The duties of said personnel shall be as prescribed by said judge.
(Ga. Laws 1966, p. 186, § 1; Ga. Laws 1971, p. 2964; O.C.G.A., § 5-12-23(b); Ga. Laws 1982, p. 548)
Sec. 5-53—5-57. - Reserved.
Sec. 5-58. - Questionnaires for prospective jurors—Answer required.
All prospective jurors in such counties shall be required to answer questionnaires as may be determined and submitted by said senior judge of such counties concerning their qualifications as jurors.
(Ga. Laws 1966, p. 186, § 2; O.C.G.A., § 15-12-23(b); Ga. Laws 1982, p. 548)
Sec. 5-59. - Same—Failure to answer.
In the event any such person fails or refuses to answer such questionnaire, the jury clerk shall report such failure or refusal to the court, together with the facts concerning the same, and the court shall have such jurisdiction as is now provided by law for subpoena, attachment and contempt powers.
(Ga. Laws 1966, p. 186, § 3; O.C.G.A., § 15-12-23(b); Ga. Laws 1982, p. 548)
Sec. 5-60. - Purpose of act.
This act shall be in addition and supplemental to other provisions provided by law, with a view toward efficient and orderly handling of jury selection and the administration of justice.
(Ga. Laws 1966, p. 186, § 4; O.C.G.A., § 15-12-23(b); Ga. Laws 1982, p. 548)
