ARTICLE 15. - AUTHORITIES
DIVISION 1. - AUGUSTA-RICHMOND COUNTY BUILDING AUTHORITY

Sec. 1-136. - City-county agreements under constitutional amendment.
Pursuant to provisions of the preceding paragraphs (a) and (b), the City Council of Augusta and Richmond County, Georgia, acting by and through their respective governing bodies are hereby authorized to enter into lease contracts and other agreements with each other and with individuals, private firms and corporations and with the Augusta-Richmond County Building Authority so as to acquire the use of buildings and related facilities for their respective governmental, proprietary and administrative functions and obligate said city and county to pay for the use of same from monies received from taxes and from any other source. Such contracts and agreements may be entered into upon the assent of a majority of the qualified voters of the City Council of Augusta and Richmond County, respectively, voting in an election for that purpose to be held as prescribed by law, and if so authorized same shall not create a debt of the respective subdivisions within the meaning of article VII, section VI, paragraph I of this constitution.
The rights and powers herein conferred upon the City Council of Augusta and Richmond County and their respective governing bodies are self-executing and no enabling act of the general assembly shall be necessary and are hereby made cumulative of and in addition to such other rights and powers as they may now or hereafter have under the constitution or laws of this state.
(Ga. Laws 1952, p. 576)
DIVISION 2. - AUGUSTA-RICHMOND COUNTY COLISEUM AUTHORITY
Subdivision 1. - Generally

Sec. 1-137. - Short title.
This may be cited as the Augusta-Richmond County Coliseum Authority Act.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 1.)
Sec. 1-138. - Purpose of authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this act, the general purpose of the Authority is declared to be that of acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining and operating one or more projects consisting of multi-use coliseum and civic center type facilities to be used for athletic contests, games, meetings, trade fairs, expositions, political conventions, agricultural events, theatrical and musical performances, conventions and other public entertainments, and the usual facilities related thereto, including, without limitation, refreshment stands and restaurants, and facilities for the purveying of foods, beverages, publications, souvenirs, novelties, and goods of all kinds, whether operated or purveyed directly or indirectly through concessions, licenses, leases or otherwise, parking facilities or parking areas in connection therewith; for acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining and operating recreational centers and areas including, but not limited to, gymnasium and athletic facilities and related buildings, and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings; the extension and improvements of such facilities; acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, with the right to contract for the use of, or to lease or sell any or all of such facilities, including real property, and to do any and all things deemed by the Authority necessary, convenient and desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development and operation of such types of undertakings.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 3207.)
Sec. 1-139. - Creation; composition; appointment, term and compensation of members; officers; vacancies; chairman's vote; rules and regulations; existence.
(a)
There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Augusta-Richmond County Coliseum Authority which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation and by that name, style, and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. Beginning on the day after the date this section becomes effective in 2009, the Authority shall consist of seven members to be appointed as follows:
(1)
Six members shall be appointed by the Augusta-Richmond County Commission, with the five commissioners of Super District 9 entitled to appoint three members and the five commissioners of Super District 10 entitled to appoint three members; and
(2)
One member shall be appointed by the legislative delegation which shall consist of all members of the General Assembly representing all or a portion of Richmond County. The member appointed by the legislative delegation shall be the chairperson of the Authority.
In order to be qualified to serve on the Authority, an appointee shall be a resident of Richmond County and shall have experience in business.
(b)
Beginning on the day after the date this section becomes effective in 2009, the appointees of the county commission shall serve a term concurrent with the term of the Super District commissioner from the Super District that made the appointment. The appointee from the legislative delegation shall serve a two-year term, except as otherwise specified in this section. In order for an appointee of the county commission to be removed from the Authority, seven members of the Augusta-Richmond County Commission, including four members from the Super District that made the appointment, without the necessity of a showing of cause, must vote for the removal of the appointee.
(c)
The members of the Authority in office on the day before the date this section becomes effective in 2009 shall not serve until the regular expiration of the terms to which such members were appointed, and the terms of such members shall expire at 11:59 P.M. on the date this section becomes effective in 2009.
(d)
As soon as practicable on or after the date this section becomes effective in 2009, the Augusta-Richmond County Commission shall appoint such members provided for in this section for terms beginning on the day after such date to replace the previously appointed members of the Authority. All appointees to the Authority shall serve until their respective successors are appointed and qualified.
(e)
Appointed members of the Authority may be reappointed only after taking at least a one-year break between appointments.
(f)
As soon as practicable on or after the date this section becomes effective in 2009, the legislative delegation shall appoint such member provided for in this section for a term beginning on the day after such date and ending on December 31, 2010, or until his or her respective successor is appointed and qualified. Subsequent appointees of the legislative delegation shall serve two-year terms or until his or her respective successor is appointed and qualified.
(g)
Immediately after their appointment, the members of the Augusta-Richmond County Coliseum Authority shall enter upon their duties. They shall all attend an orientation and training course approved by the Augusta-Richmond County Commission. They shall elect one of their number as vice chairperson, and may also elect a secretary and treasurer who need not necessarily be a member of the Augusta-Richmond County Coliseum Authority. The vice chairperson and secretary and treasurer shall serve for a period of one year and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Four members of the Augusta-Richmond County Coliseum Authority shall constitute a quorum. The chairperson shall be a nonvoting member of the Authority, except he or she may vote to break a tie vote by the other members. The chairperson shall form committees and appoint members thereto as he or she deems necessary.
(h)
As soon as practicable after the date this section becomes effective in 2009, the members of the Augusta-Richmond County Coliseum Authority shall cause to be published a manual governing the acceptable business practices and management techniques to be followed by all members during their service on the Authority. This manual shall also include a statement of the purpose of the Augusta-Richmond County Coliseum Authority and a statement of the vision for the future of the Authority.
(i)
In the event of a vacancy by reason of death, disqualification, removal, resignation, or other reason, the body which appointed such member shall appoint a person to serve the remainder of the term of such member. No vacancy on the Augusta-Richmond County Coliseum Authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all their rights and to perform all of the duties of the Authority.
(j)
The members of the Augusta-Richmond County Coliseum Authority shall serve without compensation provided that all members shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. The Authority shall make rules and regulations governing the procedures to be followed in conducting the business of the Authority. It shall have perpetual existence.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 2; Ga. Laws 1977 p. 3300; Ga. Laws 1993 p. 4087, §§ 1—3; Act of 5-31-2009 § 1, (H.B. 813))
Sec. 1-140. - Definitions.
As used in this act, the following words or terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)
Authority. The Augusta-Richmond County Coliseum Authority created by this act.
(b)
Project. The acquisition, construction, equipping, maintenance and operation of multi-use coliseum and civic center type facilities to be used for athletic contests, games, meetings, trade fairs, expositions, political conventions, agricultural events, theatrical and musical performances, conventions and other public entertainments, and the usual facilities related thereto, including, without limitation, refreshment stands and restaurants, and facilities for the purveying of foods, beverages, publications, souvenirs, novelties and goods of all kinds, whether operated or purveyed directly, or indirectly through concessions, licenses, leases or otherwise, parking facilities or parking areas in connection therewith, recreational centers and areas including, but not limited to, gymnasium and athletic facilities and related buildings, and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and the extension and improvements of such facilities, acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, and the lease, sale and licensing of any part or all of such facilities, including real and personal property, to any persons, firms or corporations whether public or private so as to assure the efficient and proper development, maintenance and operation of such facilities and areas, deemed by the Authority to be necessary, convenient or desirable. The Authority shall have the right to acquire and construct more than one project and any combination of facilities may be constructed as a separate project.
(c)
Cost of the project shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired, the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, and for one year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural and legal expenses and of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, or the construction of any project, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act for such project.
(d)
Revenue bonds, bonds and obligations. Revenue bonds as defined and provided for in the revenue bond laws of Georgia, amending the law formerly known as the revenue certificate law of 1937, as amended, and such type of obligations may be issued by the Authority as authorized under said revenue bond law and in addition, shall also mean obligations of the Authority, the issuance of which are hereinafter specifically provided for in this act.
(e)
Any project shall be deemed self-liquidating if in the judgment of the Authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the Authority therefrom and all properties used, leased and sold in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 3; Ga. Laws 1974, p. 3207.)
Sec. 1-141. - Powers—Generally.
(a)
The Authority shall have powers:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(2)
To accept gifts, grants and donations;
(3)
To acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, lease and dispose of, real and personal property, of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(4)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property or rights of easements therein, or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the name so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the Authority, the Authority being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this act except from the funds provided under the authority of this act, and in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action or proceedings as may be just to the Authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned, and no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this act upon which any lien or encumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance; and if the Authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project on any other lands the title to which shall then be in the State of Georgia, the governor is hereby authorized to convey, for and in behalf of the state, title to such lands to the Authority upon payment to the state treasurer for the credit of the general fund of the state, the reasonable value of such lands, such value to be determined by three appraisers to be agreed upon by the governor and the chairman of the Authority;
(5)
To appoint, select and employ officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys and fix their respective compensation;
(6)
To make contracts and leases, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, with any and all persons, firms and corporations and any city, town, municipality, consolidated government, county or other political subdivision, or departments, institutions or agencies of this state including contracts for construction of any project and leasing of any project and contracts with respect to the use and management of any project and any and all persons, firms and corporations and any city, town, municipality, consolidated government, county or other political subdivision, department, institution or agency of this state is hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases or agreements with the Authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and any such project shall be for the development and promotion in this state of the cultural growth, public welfare, education and recreation of the people of this state and accordingly all such projects shall, and hereby are declared to be, public buildings to be used for public purposes; and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, authority, right and power is hereby specifically granted to any such city, town, municipality, county or consolidated government to enter into and make contracts, lease agreements and other undertakings with the Authority with respect to the furnishing of services and facilities by the Authority and for the payments of rents, fees and charges for the use by such cities, towns, municipalities or consolidated governments or the residents thereof of any project; and the rentals contracted to be paid by the lessees or tenants to the Authority under any such contracts or leases entered into pursuant to the provisions of this act shall constitute general obligations of any such city, town, municipality, county or consolidated government for the payment of which the full faith and credit of such city, town, municipality, county or consolidated government shall be and the same hereby is pledged to provide the funds required to fulfill all obligations arising under any such contract or lease; and any such city, town, municipality, county or consolidated government which shall have entered into such a contract or lease pursuant to the provisions of this act shall annually in each and every fiscal year during the term of such contract or lease include in a general revenue or appropriation measure, within any millage limitations of its power of taxation and whether or not any other items are included, sums sufficient to satisfy the payments required to be made in each year by such contract or lease until all payments required under such contract or lease have been paid in full, and such contract or lease payments shall constitute a first charge on all such sums so appropriated, and such sums shall be and hereby are unconditionally obligated to the payment of such contracts or leases; provided, however, that such payments shall not impair existing obligations of such city, town, municipality, county or consolidated government. In the event for any reason any such provision or appropriation is not made, then the fiscal officers of such city, town, municipality, county or consolidated government are hereby authorized and directed to set up as an appropriation on their accounts in each fiscal year the amounts required to pay the obligations called for under any such contract or lease. The amount of the appropriation in each fiscal year to meet the obligations of such contract or lease as authorized and required hereby shall be due and payable and shall be expended for the purpose of paying and meeting the obligations provided under the terms and conditions of such contract or lease, and such appropriation shall have the same legal status as if the contracting city, town, municipality, county or consolidated government had included the amount of the appropriation in its general revenue or appropriation measure, and such fiscal officers shall make such payment to the Authority if for any reason such appropriation is not otherwise made; and any such city, town, municipality, county or consolidated government may obligate itself and its successors under any such contract or lease to use only such structures, buildings, or facilities constituting such project and none other;
(7)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the Authority or from such proceeds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(8)
To accept loans and/or grants of money, materials, or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may require;
(9)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(10)
To establish charges, rates and regulations for users of the facilities and services of the Authority;
(11)
To do all things which municipalities are empowered to do under the provisions of the Revenue Bond Law of Georgia, approved March 31, 1937, as amended, codified in Georgia Code Annotated, chapter 36-82, subject to any limitations herein contained; and
(12)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this act.
(b)
The Authority, in considering whether a contracting party for a project is responsible, may consider the contracting party's quality of work, general reputation in the community, financial responsibility, previous employment on public works, and compliance with a minority business enterprise participation plan or making a good faith effort to comply with the goals of such a plan. The members of the Authority shall notify annually their respective appointing bodies of efforts to comply with the goals of such a plan.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any elected public official for himself or herself or on behalf of any business or for any business in which such official has a substantial interest to transact any business with the Authority. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit any member of an elected official's family from transacting business with the Authority.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 4; Ga. Laws 1975, p. 4681, §§ 1, 2; Ga. Laws 1993, p. 4087, §§ 4, 5)
Sec. 1-142. - Sale of malt beverages.
(a)
As used in this section:
(1)
Coliseum authority means any public coliseum authority created by law in any county of the state having a population of not less than 145,000 and not more than 165,000, according to the United States decennial census of 1970 or any future such census.
(2)
Coliseum means any multi-use coliseum-type facility having a seating capacity of nine thousand or more and which is a project of the coliseum authority, together with related buildings, facilities, and extensions of the project.
(b)
Any coliseum authority presently or hereafter operating a coliseum may sell malt beverages at retail as an incident to the operation of the coliseum. Such sales may be made during all hours during which such sales are lawful in the state including, but not limited to, between the hours of 12:30 p.m. and 12 o'clock midnight on Sundays.
(c)
For the purposes of regulating and taxing the sale, storage and distribution of malt beverages as provided in this section, the coliseum shall be considered to be within a municipality if the coliseum, or the greater part of the coliseum, is within the limits of the municipality. The coliseum shall be considered to be within the unincorporated area of the county if the coliseum, or the greater part of the coliseum, is located within the unincorporated part of the county.
(Ga. Laws 1979, p. 349, § 1)
Subdivision 2. - Revenue Bonds

Sec. 1-143. - Authorization to issue.
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the authority created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds of the authority, for the purpose paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund herein provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates per annum, payable at such time or times not exceeding forty years as may hereafter be authorized by the bonding laws of the State of Georgia, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of bonds.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 5.)
Sec. 1-144. - Form; denominations: registration; place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine. Provisions may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 6.)
Sec. 1-145. - Signatures; seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds, or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon, shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes, the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the authority and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto and attested by the secretary of the authority and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signature of the chairman of the authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signature of such persons and any bond may be signed, sealed and attested on behalf of the authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 7.)
Sec. 1-146. - Negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of this state. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and the said bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 8.)
Sec. 1-147. - Sale; price.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interests of the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 9.)
Sec. 1-148. - Use of proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds, or in the trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued, to provide the amount of any deficit, which, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds, or in the trust indenture, shall be deemed to be of the same, and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund, without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into the funds, hereinafter provided, for the payment of principal and interest of such bonds.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p.3042, § 10.)
Sec. 1-149. - Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 11.)
Sec. 1-150. - Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bonds which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 12.)
Sec. 1-151. - Issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings, or the happening of any conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required by this act. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution, providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of its members.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 13.)
Sec. 1-152. - Payment of obligation—State, county or city not obligated to levy tax or make appropriation.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall be deemed to constitute a debt of the State of Georgia, County of Richmond or the City of Augusta or a pledge of the faith and credit of said state, county, or city, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the funds hereinafter provided for, and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly or contingently, obligate the said state, county or city to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor, or to make any appropriation for the payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 14.)
Sec. 1-153. - Same—Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the authority, any issuance of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside of the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues and earnings to be received by the authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insurance of the project and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor, and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depositary of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other monies be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depositary and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 15.)
Sec. 1-154. - Same—To whom proceeds of bond sale paid.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person, who, or any agency, bank or trust company which shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 16.)
Sec. 1-155. - Same—Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds so pledged, for whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payment of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking funds shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be canceled and shall not again be issued.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 17.)
Sec. 1-156. - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia, or granted hereunder, or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 18.)
Sec. 1-157. - Refunding bonds.
The authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of bonds of the authority for the purpose of funding or refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such funding or refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof and the duties of the authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this act insofar as the same may be applicable.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 19.)
Sec. 1-158. - Tax exemptions.
It is hereby found, determined and declared that the creation of the authority and the carrying out of its corporate purpose is in all respects for the benefit of the people of this state, and that the authority is an institution of purely public charity and will be performing an essential governmental function in the exercise of the power conferred upon it by this act, and this state covenants with the holders of the bonds that the authority shall not be required to pay any taxes or assessments upon any of the property acquired or leased by it or under its jurisdiction, control, possession or supervision or upon its activities in the operation or maintenance of the projects erected by it or any fees, tolls or other charges for the use of such projects or other income received by the authority, and that the bonds of the authority, their transfer, and the income therefrom shall at all times be exempt from taxation within the state. The exemption from taxation herein provided shall not extend to tenants nor lessees of the authority. The authority shall be exempt from sale and use taxes on sales to the authority when paid for directly by the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 20; Ga. Laws 1978, p. 4673)
Sec. 1-159. - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Richmond County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 21)
Sec. 1-160. - Validation of bonds.
(a)
All bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in the Richmond County Superior Court in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Bond Law of Georgia, approved March 31, 1937, as amended, codified in Georgia Code Annotated, chapter 36-82. The petition of validation shall be brought against said authority and, in the event the payments to be made by any city, town, municipality, county or consolidated government under a contract or lease entered into between the authority and such political subdivision are pledged as security for the payment of revenue bonds sought to be validated, such political subdivision or subdivisions shall also be made parties defendant, and the defendants shall be required to show cause, if any exists, why such contract or lease or contracts or leases and the terms and conditions thereof should not be adjudicated to be in all respects valid and binding upon such subdivision or subdivisions. It shall be incumbent upon such subdivision or subdivisions to defend against adjudication of the validity and binding effect of such contract or lease or contracts or leases or be forever bound thereby. Notice of such proceedings shall be included in the notice of the validation hearing required to be issued and published by the clerk of the Superior Court of Richmond County in which court such validation proceeding shall be initiated. Any resident of the State of Georgia may intervene in the validation proceedings at or before the time set for the validation hearing and may assert any ground of objection to the validity and binding effect of such bonds and the security therefor and of such contract or lease or contracts or leases on his own behalf and on behalf of all citizens and residents of the State of Georgia. In the event no bill of exceptions shall be filed within 20 days from the date of the judgment of validation, or if filed and the judgment shall be affirmed by the proper appellate court of this state, the judgment of the Richmond County Superior Court so confirming and validating the validity and binding effect of such contract or lease or contracts or leases and of such bonds and the security therefor shall be forever conclusive upon the issue of the validity and binding effect of such contracts, leases and bonds and the security therefor and upon the issue of the validity and constitutionality of this and any other act pertaining to such contracts and bonds and the security therefor against the authority issuing the same and against the parties to such contracts and against all residents of the State of Georgia.
(b)
Any action or proceeding to contest the validity or binding effect of any such revenue bonds or resolution or trust instrument pertinent thereto or any contracts made for the purposes of providing the payment of such bond as aforesaid must be commenced and filed prior to the conclusion of the validation hearing, notice of which shall have been given as provided by law. After the expiration of such period of limitation no right of action or defense founded upon the invalidity of such bonds, resolutions, trust instruments, or contracts shall be asserted nor shall the validity and
binding effect of such bonds, resolutions, trust instruments, or contracts be opened to question or attack in any court upon any ground whatever, except in an action or proceeding commenced and filed prior to the conclusion of such validation hearing.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 22; Ga. Laws 1975, p. 4681, § 3)
Sec. 1-161. - Protection of bondholders' interest by insuring status of authority.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said authority or of its officers, employees, or agents, shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority, will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the rights and interests of the holders of such bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the authority. The provisions of this act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds, and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 23.)
Sec. 1-162. - Rates, charges, etc., for services, facilities, etc., of authority.
The authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix and collect rates, fees, tolls and charges, and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished, including leases, concessions or subleases of its lands or facilities, or contracts for the use of its land and facilities, and to determine the price and terms at and under which its lands or facilities may be sold, and, in anticipation of the collection of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects, is authorized to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance, in whole or in part the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, equipment, betterment or extension of its lands and facilities and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects, including the revenues of improvements, betterments or extensions thereto, thereafter made or the sale of any of its lands and facilities.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 25.)
Sec. 1-163. - Authority to prescribe rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this act.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 26.)
Sec. 1-164. - Tort immunity of authority.
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as Richmond County and the City of Augusta; and the officers, agents and employees of the authority when in the performance of the work of the authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of Richmond County and the City of Augusta when in the performance of their public duties or work.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 27.)
Sec. 1-165. - Powers of authority supplemental to powers conferred by other laws.
The foregoing sections of this act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers not existing.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 28.)
Sec. 1-166. - Act to be liberally construed.
This act, being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of the state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes thereof.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3042, § 29.)
DIVISION 3. - RICHMOND COUNTY INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

Sec. 1-167. - Short title.
This act may be cited as the Richmond County Industrial Development Act.
(Ga. Laws 1957, p. 3175, § 1.)
Editor's note— Because this Authority does not exist, the provisions have been omitted. See Part 2, section 1-4-6 et seq. for the Development Authority of Augusta, Georgia.
Sec. 1-168—1-173. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - AUGUSTA-RICHMOND COUNTY STADIUM AUTHORITY[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— This Authority was authorized by 1957 Ga. Laws, p. 2727, but does not exist; therefore, the provisions relating to same have been omitted.]

Sec. 1-174—1-181. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - AUGUSTA-RICHMOND COUNTY TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— This Authority was authorized by 1970 Ga. Laws, p. 3208, but does not exist; therefor, the provisions relating to same have been omitted.

Sec. 1-182—1-199. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - RESERVED

Sec. 1-200—1-229. - Reserved.
DIVISION 7. - RICHMOND COUNTY HOSPITAL AUTHORITY

Sec. 1-230. - Status of existing members.
(a)
Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, members of the board of the Richmond County Hospital Authority who were serving on the board on January 1, 1985, shall serve for the remainder of the terms to which they were appointed and until their successors are appointed and qualified.
(b)
The two members of the board whose terms expired December 31, 1984, shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified under this act [division].
(Ga. Laws 1985, p. 3892, § 1)
Sec. 1-231. - Appointment of successor—Term expiring December 31, 1984.
The successor to one of the two members of the board whose term expired December 31, 1984, shall be appointed by the governing authority of Richmond County. The one member appointed under this section and successors to such member shall be a member of the governing authority of Richmond County.
(Ga. Laws 1985 p. 3892, § 2)
Sec. 1-232. - Same—Terms expiring 1984 through 1987.
The successor to one of the two members of the board whose term expired December 31, 1984, successors to the two members of the board whose terms expire December 31, 1985, successors to the two members of the board whose terms expire December 31, 1986, and successors to the three members of the board whose terms expire Decem- ber 31, 1987, shall be appointed by the governing authority of Richmond County from lists of the names of eligible persons submitted by the board of the Richmond County Hospital Authority. For each position on the board to be filled, a list of the names of three persons shall be submitted to the governing authority of Richmond County. The governing authority shall select one of the three persons named to succeed the member whose term has expired.
(Ga. Laws 1985, p. 3892, § 3)
Sec. 1-233. - Same—Terms of office.
Members of the board appointed under sections 2 and 3 of this act [sections 1-231 and 1-232] and successors of such members shall serve for terms of office of four years and until their successors are appointed and qualified as provided and using the procedures in section 2 or section 3 of this act [sections 1-231 and 1-232] as the case may be.
(Ga. Laws 1985, p. 3892, § 4)
Sec. 1-234. - Filling of vacancies.
If a vacancy occurs for any reason, a qualified person shall be appointed to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term and until his successor is appointed and qualified using the procedures set forth in section 2 or section 3 of this act [sections 1-231 and 1-232] as the case may be.
(Ga. Laws 1985, p. 3892, § 5)
DIVISION 9. - AUGUSTA CANAL AUTHORITY

Sec. 1-235. - Purpose.
Creating the Augusta Canal Authority; to provide for definitions; to provide for the purposes of the authority; to provide for membership of the authority; to provide for the appointment, terms, and eligibility for reappointment of the members of the authority; to provide for a quorum; to provide for officers; to provide for filling vacancies; to provide for the removal of members; to describe conflicts of interest and penalties for violations; to provide for powers of the authority; to provide for the issuance of revenue bonds generally; to provide for the applicability of the Revenue Bond Law; to provide for the authorized contents of agreements of the authority generally; to provide for the use of proceeds, subsequent issues, and bond anticipation notes; to provide that obligations of the authority shall not be obligations of the state or political subdivisions thereof; to provide for the constitutional authority for enactment of this Act and tax exemption; to provide for the applicability of the Georgia Securities Act of 1973; to provide for the effect of this Act under a successor government; to provide for the construction of this Act; to declare powers supplementary; to provide for severability; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, Act No. 289)
Sec. 1-236. - Creation of authority.
There is created the Augusta Canal Authority, which shall be an instrumentality and political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation. The authority may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 1)
Sec. 1-237. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following terms shall have the following meanings ascribed to them below:
(a)
Authority. The Augusta Canal Authority created by this Act.
(b)
Cost of the project or cost of any project means and includes:
(1)
All costs of acquisition, by purchase or otherwise, construction, assembly, installation, modification, renovation, or rehabilitation incurred with any project or any part of any project;
(2)
All costs of real property, fixtures, or personal property used in or in connection with or necessary for any project or for any facilities related thereto, including, but not limited to, the cost of all land, estates for years, easements, rights, improvements, water rights, connections for utility services, fees, franchises, permits, approvals, licenses, and certificates; the cost of securing any such franchises, permits, approvals, licenses, or certificates; and the cost of preparation of any application therefor and the cost of all fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture, and other property used in or in connection with or necessary for any project;
(3)
All financing charges and loan fees and all interest on revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority which accrue or are paid prior to and during the period of construction of a project and during such additional period as the authority may reasonably determine to be necessary to place such project in operation;
(4)
All costs of engineering, surveying, and architectural and legal services and all expenses incurred by engineers, surveyors, architects, and attorneys in connection with any project;
(5)
All expenses for inspection of any project;
(6)
All fees of fiscal agents, paying agents, and trustees for bondholders under any trust agreement, indenture of trust, or similar instrument or agreement; all expenses incurred by any such fiscal agents, paying agents, and trustees; and all other costs and expenses incurred relative to the issuance of any revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations for any project;
(7)
All fees of any type charged by the authority in connection with any project;
(8)
All expenses of or incidental to determining the feasibility or practicability of any project;
(9)
All costs of plans and specifications for any project;
(10)
All costs of title insurance and examinations of title with respect to any project;
(11)
Repayment of any loans made for the advance payment of any part of any of the foregoing costs, including interest thereon and any other expenses of such loans;
(12)
Administrative expenses of the authority and such other expenses as may be necessary or incidental to any project or the financing thereof or the placing of any project in operation; and
(13)
The establishment of a fund or funds for the creation of a debt service reserve, a renewal and replacement reserve, or such other funds or reserves as the authority may approve with respect to the financing and operation of any project and as may be authorized by any bond resolution, trust agreement, indenture of trust, or similar instrument or agreement pursuant to the provisions of which the issuance of any revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority may be authorized.
Any cost, obligation, or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of proceeds of revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations issued by the authority.
(c)
Governing body. The elected or duly appointed officials constituting the governing body of the City of Augusta or any successor government to the City of Augusta.
(d)
Member. A member of the authority established by this Act.
(e)
Project. Any undertaking of the authority in connection with the revitalization and development of the City of Augusta within a project area, and shall be declared to include the creation of parks and recreation areas; buildings to be constructed and used for the housing of exhibits, exhibition purposes, amusement or educational purposes, or any combination of the above; public parking areas and public parking buildings; causeways, tunnels, viaducts, bridges, and other crossings; thoroughfares, parkways, and any avenue of traffic; and all other buildings, structures, or facilities useful and desirable in connection therewith, extension and improvements of such facilities, and the acquisition of the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, in order to accomplish the essential public purpose for which the authority is created.
(f)
Project area means the right-of-way of the Augusta Canal and any contiguous tract of land, a portion of which fronts on either side of the Augusta Canal, or any structure linking a tract of land on one side of the Augusta Canal to a tract of land on the opposite side of the Augusta Canal. A contiguous tract of land is deemed to mean any parcel or parcels of land which are contiguous except for the interposition of a road, street, stream, or similar property Otherwise, parcels are contiguous if their boundaries meet at one or more points.
(g)
Revenue bonds or bonds. Any bonds of the authority which are authorized to be issued under the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, including refunding bonds but not including notes or other obligations of the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 2; Ga. Laws 2004, p. 3596, § 1)
Sec. 1-238. - Purposes of the authority.
(a)
It is determined, declared, and established that the purpose of the authority is to promote the revitalization and development of the City of Augusta through the creation in the project areas of parks, recreation areas, and all other facilities useful or desirable in connection therewith. The creation of such areas is intended to develop and promote for the public good and general welfare trade, tourism, commerce, industry, and employment opportunities and to promote the general welfare of this state by creating a climate favorable to the location of new industry, trade, and commerce and the development of existing industry, trade, commerce, and tourism opportunities within the City of Augusta.
(b)
It is determined, declared, and established that the creation of the authority and the implementation of the corporate purposes set forth in this Act is in all respects for the benefit of the people of this state generally and for the people residing in the City of Augusta and surrounding areas of the State of Georgia specifically; and it is further declared that the revitalization and development of the project areas are proper public purposes and this Act is adopted for the purposes of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare the public facilities of said areas, including the construction of streets, roadways, and parks and for the purposes of acquiring, constructing, adding to, extending, improving, equipping, maintaining any and all facilities useful or desirable in connection therewith, acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, with the right to contract for the use of or to lease or sell any or all of such facilities, including real property, and to do any and all things deemed by the authority necessary, convenient, or desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development, revitalization, modernization, and operation thereof.
(c)
It is further found, determined, and declared that all property of said authority is declared and shall in all respects be considered to be public property and title to such property shall be held by the authority only for the benefit of the public, and the use of such property pursuant to the terms of this Act shall be and is declared to be for public and governmental purposes, that is, for the promotion of the general public welfare in matters of cultural development, education, pleasure, convenience, and recreation of the public at large, in an effort to better the general condition of society or that considerable part of society residing in the City of Augusta and surrounding areas of the State of Georgia, which promotion is declared to be a public beneficence for the good of humanity and for the general improvement and happiness of society, and all the property, income, obligations, and interest on the obligations of the authority and the transfer thereof shall be and are declared to be nontaxable for any and all purposes.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 3; 2001 (Ex. Sess.) Ga. Laws, page 669, § 1)
Sec. 1-239. - Authority; membership.
The authority shall be composed of 12 members who shall be residents and qualified voters of Augusta, Georgia. Except as hereinafter provided, ten members of the authority shall be appointed by the Augusta-Richmond County Commission, which shall designate each member to be a representative from one of the ten election districts used in electing the commissioners for the Augusta-Richmond County Commission. Three current members of the authority shall continue to serve as members for terms expiring March 31, 2000, and shall be deemed to be representatives for the Augusta-Richmond County Commission Districts as follows: District 2—Robert S. Woodhurst III, District 6—Jeanic C. Allen, and District 10—D. Hugh Connolly. Two current members of the authority shall continue to serve as members for terms expiring March 31, 2002, and shall be deemed to be representatives for the Augusta-Richmond County Commission Districts as follows: District 3—Thomas H. Robertson and District 9—Richard S. Fox. New authority members shall be appointed as above set forth to be representatives for Districts 4 and 8 for terms expiring March 31, 2000, and to be representatives for Districts 1, 5, and 7, respectively for terms expiring March 31, 2002. In addition, two members shall be recommended by the Augusta-Richmond County delegation in the General Assembly of Georgia and appointed by the Augusta-Richmond County Commission, which shall designate one such member's term to expire March 31, 2000, and the other such member's term to expire March 31, 2002. Following expiration of the initial terms as set forth above, members of the authority shall serve four-year terms expiring on March 31 of the year of expiration. If at the end of any term of office of any member, a successor to such member has not been appointed, the member whose term of office has expired shall continue to hold office until a successor is appointed and assumes office. A majority of the members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. Any members of the authority otherwise qualified shall be eligible for reappointment. No member shall be a member of the Augusta-Richmond County Commission, but there shall be no other disqualification to hold public office by reason of membership in the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 4; Ga. Laws 1999, p. 3890, 3891)
Sec. 1-240. - Officers.
The members shall elect one of their number as chairman and another as vice chairman and shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer or a secretary-treasurer, either of whom may but need not be a member. The members shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 5)
Sec. 1-241. - Vacancies in authority.
Should an appointed member vacate his or her office by resignation, death, change of residence, or removal as provided in Section 7 of this Act or for any other reason, the Augusta-Richmond County Commission or the Augusta-Richmond County Commission upon the recommendation of the Richmond County delegation in the General Assembly of Georgia shall, as soon as practicable, appoint another qualified person to serve as a member of the authority for the unexpired term.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 6; Ga. Laws 1999, p. 3891, 3892, § 2)
Sec. 1-242. - Removal of members.
Any member may be removed from office for good cause affecting his ability to perform his duties as a member, for misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office, or for violating the conflicts of interest provisions of this Act, by vote of three of the other members, but only after a public hearing at which such member is given the right to present evidence in his own behalf and only upon a finding by three of the other members that good cause for removal affecting the member's ability to perform his duties as a member exists, that he was guilty of misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office, or that he violated the conflicts of interest provisions of this Act.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 7)
Sec. 1-243. - Conflicts of interest.
No member of the authority or officer or employee thereof shall have a financial interest, direct or indirect, in any contract with the authority, or be financially interested, directly or indirectly, in the sale to the authority of any lands, material, supplies, or services, except on behalf of the authority as a member, officer, or employee thereof. Any violation of this provision by a member of the authority shall be grounds for removal pursuant to Section 7 of this Act [Sec. 1-242]. Any violation of this provision by any officer or employee of the authority who is not also a member of the authority shall be grounds for removal by vote of three members of the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 8)
Sec. 1-244. - Powers of the authority.
(a)
The authority shall have all of the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of this Act including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power:
(1)
To bring and defend actions;
(2)
To adopt and amend a corporate seal;
(3)
To make and execute contracts, agreements, and other instruments necessary or convenient to exercise the powers of the authority or to further the public purpose for which the authority is created, including, but not limited to, contracts for construction of projects, leases of projects, contracts for sale of projects, agreements for loans to finance projects, and contracts with respect to the use of projects;
(4)
To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character, or any interest therein, in furtherance of the public purpose of the authority;
(5)
To finance, by loan, grant, lease, or otherwise, and to construct, erect, assemble, purchase, acquire, own, repair, remodel, renovate, rehabilitate, modify, maintain, extend, improve, install, sell, equip, expand, add to, operate, or manage projects and to pay the cost of any project from the proceeds of revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority or any other funds of the authority or from any contributions or loans by persons, corporations, partnerships, whether limited or general, or other entities, all of which the authority is authorized to receive, accept, and use;
(6)
To borrow money to further or carry out its public purpose and to execute revenue bonds, notes, other obligations, leases, trust indentures, trust agreements, agreements for the sale of its revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations, loan agreements, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds, security agreements, assignments, and such other agreements or instruments as may be necessary or desirable, in the judgment of the authority, to evidence and to provide security for such borrowing;
(7)
To issue revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority and use the proceeds thereof for the purpose of paying, or loaning the proceeds thereof to pay, all or any part of the cost of any project and otherwise to further or carry out the public purpose of the authority and to pay all costs of the authority incidental to, or necessary and appropriate to, furthering or carrying out such purpose;
(8)
To make application directly or indirectly to any federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency or to any other source, whether public or private, for loans, grants, guarantees, or other financial assistance in furtherance of the authority's public purpose and to accept and use the same upon such terms and conditions as are prescribed by such federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency or other source;
(9)
To enter into agreements with the federal government or any agency thereof to use the facilities or services of the federal government or any agency thereof in order to further or carry out the public purposes of the authority;
(10)
To contract for any period, not exceeding 50 years, with the State of Georgia, state institutions, or any municipal corporation or county of this state for the use by the authority of any facilities or services of the state or any such state institution, municipal corporation, or county, or for the use by any state institution or any municipal corporation or county of any facilities or services of the authority, provided that such contracts shall deal with such activities and transactions as the authority and any such political subdivision with which the authority contracts are authorized by law to undertake;
(11)
To extend credit or make loans to any person, corporation, partnership, whether limited or general, or other entity for the costs of any project or any part of the costs of any project, which credit or loans may be evidenced or secured by loan agreements, notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds, security agreements, assignments, or such other instruments, or by rentals, revenues, fees, or such terms and conditions as the authority charges, upon shall determine to be reasonable in connection with such extension of credit or loans, including provision for the establishment and maintenance of reserve funds; and, in the exercise of powers granted by this Act in connection with any project, the authority shall have the right and power to require the inclusion in any such loan agreement, note, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, assignment, or other instrument such provisions or requirements for guaranty of any obligations, insurance, construction, use, operation, maintenance, and financing of a project, and such other terms and conditions, as the authority may deem necessary or desirable;
(12)
As security for repayment of any revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority, to pledge, mortgage, convey, assign, hypothecate, or otherwise encumber any property of the authority, including, but not limited to, real property, fixtures, personal property, and revenues or other funds, and to execute any lease, trust indenture, trust agreement, agreement for the sale of the authority's revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations, loan agreement, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, assignment, or other agreement or instrument as may be necessary or desirable, in the judgment of the authority, to secure any such revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations, which instruments or agreements may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default in any obligation of the authority, either in payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest or in the performance of any term or condition contained in such agreement or instrument. The State of Georgia, on behalf of itself and each county, municipal corporation, political subdivision, or taxing district therein, waives any right it or such county, municipal corporation, political subdivision, or taxing district may have to prevent the forced sale or foreclosure of any property of the authority upon such default and agrees that any agreement or instrument encumbering such property may be foreclosed in accordance with the laws of this state and the terms thereof;
(13)
To receive and use the proceeds of any tax levied by a municipal corporation to pay the costs of any project or for any other purpose for which the authority may use its own funds pursuant to this Act;
(14)
To receive and administer gifts, grants, and devises of money and property of any kind and to administer trusts;
(15)
To use any real property, personal property, or fixtures or any interest therein or to rent or lease such property to or from others or make contracts with respect to the use thereof, or to sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign, pledge, or otherwise dispose of or grant options for any such property in any manner as it deems to the best advantage of the authority and the public purpose thereof;
(16)
To acquire, accept, or retain equitable interests, security interests, or other interests in any real property, personal property, or fixtures by loan agreement, note, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, assignment, pledge, conveyance, contract, lien, loan agreement, or other consensual transfer in order to secure the repayment of any moneys loaned or credit extended by the authority;
(17)
To appoint, select, and employ engineers, consultants, surveyors, architects, urban or city planners, fiscal agents, attorneys, and others and to fix their compensation and pay their expenses;
(18)
To encourage, advertise, and promote the improvement and revitalization of the project areas and to make, contract for, or otherwise cause to be made long-range plans or proposals for the project areas in cooperation with the City of Augusta;
(19)
To adopt bylaws governing the conduct of business by the authority, the election and duties of officers of the authority, and other matters which the authority determines to deal with in its bylaws; and
(20)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers conferred by this Act.
(b)
The powers enumerated in each paragraph of subsection (a) of this section are cumulative of and in addition to those powers enumerated in other paragraphs of subsection (a) of this section and elsewhere in this Act, and no such power limits or restricts any other power of the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 9)
Sec. 1-245. - Revenue bonds—Generally.
(a)
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the authority created by this Act, shall have the power and is authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as defined in this Act of any one or more projects.
(b)
Revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations issued by the authority shall be paid solely from the property, including, but not limited to, real property, fixtures, personal property, revenues, or other funds, that is pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated, or otherwise encumbered to secure or to pay such bonds, notes, or other obligations.
(c)
All revenue bonds, notes, and other obligations shall be authorized by resolution of the authority and adopted by a majority vote of the members of the authority at a regular or special meeting.
(d)
Revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations shall bear such date or dates, shall mature at such time or times not more than 40 years from their respective dates, shall bear interest at such rate or rates which may be fixed or may fluctuate or otherwise change from time to time, shall be subject to redemption on such terms, and shall contain such other terms, provisions, covenants, assignments, and conditions as the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds, notes, or other obligations may permit or provide. The terms, provisions, covenants, assignments, and conditions contained in or provided or permitted by any resolution of the authority authorizing the issuance of such revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations shall bind the members of the authority then in office and their successors.
(e)
The authority shall have power from time to time and whenever it deems it expedient to refund any bonds by the issuance of new bonds, whether or not the bonds to be refunded have matured, and may issue bonds partly to refund bonds then outstanding and partly for any other purpose permitted under this Act. The refunding bonds may be exchanged for the bonds to be refunded, with such cash adjustments as may be agreed upon, or may be sold and the proceeds applied to the purchase or redemption of the bonds to be refunded.
(f)
There shall be no limitation upon the amount of revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations which the authority may issue. Any limitations with respect to interest rates or any maximum interest rate or rates found in Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the Revenue Bond Law, the usury laws of this state, or any other laws of this state shall not apply to revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 10)
Sec. 1-246. - Applicability of revenue bond law; form; provisions for exchange and transfer; certificate of validation; specification of interest rates in notice to district attorney or attorney general; cost of the project or cost of any project defined.
(a)
All bonds issued by the authority under this Act shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the Revenue Bond Law, except as provided in this Act, provided that notes and other obligations of the authority may, but shall not be required to, be so validated.
(b)
Bonds issued by the authority may be in such form, either coupon or fully registered, or both coupon and fully registered, and may be subject to such exchangeability and transferability provisions as the bond resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or any indenture or trust agreement may provide.
(c)
Bonds shall bear a certificate of validation. The signature of the clerk of the Superior Court of Richmond County may be made on the certificate of validation of such bonds by facsimile or by manual execution, stating the date on which such bonds were validated, and such entry shall be original evidence of the fact of judgment and shall be received as original evidence in any court in this state.
(d)
In lieu of specifying the rate or rates of interest which bonds to be issued by an authority are to bear, the notice to the district attorney or the Attorney General, the notice to the public of the time, place, and date of the validation hearing, and the petition and complaint for validation may state that the bonds when issued will bear interest at a rate not exceeding a maximum per annum rate of interest, which may be fixed or may fluctuate or otherwise change from time to time, specified in such notices and petition and complaint or may state that, in the event the bonds are to bear different rates of interest for different maturity dates, none of such rates will exceed the maximum rate, which may be fixed or may fluctuate or otherwise change from time to time, so specified; provided, however, that nothing in this Act shall be construed as prohibiting or restricting the right of the authority to sell such bonds at a discount, even if in doing so the effective interest cost resulting therefrom would exceed the maximum per annum interest rate specified in such notices and in the petition and complaint.
(e)
The terms cost of the project and cost of any project shall have the meaning prescribed in this Act whenever those terms are referred to in bond resolutions of the authority, in bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority, or in notices or proceedings to validate such bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 11)
Sec. 1-247. - Authorized contents of agreements and instruments of authority—Generally; use of proceeds; subsequent issues; bond anticipation notes.
(a)
Subject to the limitations and procedures provided by this section and by Section 11 of this Act [section 1-246], the agreements or instruments executed by the authority may contain such provisions not inconsistent with law as shall be determined by the authority.
(b)
The proceeds derived from the sale of all bonds, notes, and other obligations issued by the authority shall be held and used for the ultimate purpose of paying, directly or indirectly as permitted in this Act, all or part of the cost of any project or for the purpose of refunding any bonds, notes, or other obligations issued in accordance with this Act.
(c)
Issuance by the authority of one or more series of bonds, notes, or other obligations for one or more purposes shall not preclude it from issuing other bonds, notes, or other obligations in connection with the same project or with any other projects; provided, however, that the proceeding wherein any subsequent bonds, notes, or other obligations are issued shall recognize and protect any prior loan agreement, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, or other agreement or instrument made for any prior issue of bonds, notes, or other obligations, unless in the resolution authorizing such prior issue the right is expressly reserved to the authority to issue subsequent bonds, notes, or other obligations on a parity with such prior issue.
(d)
The authority shall have the power and is authorized, whenever bonds of the authority shall have been validated as provided in this Act, to issue from time to time its notes in anticipation of such bonds as validated and to renew from time to time any such notes by the issuance of new notes, whether or not the notes to be renewed have matured. The authority may issue such bond anticipation notes only to provide funds which would otherwise be provided by the issuance of the bonds as validated. Such notes may be authorized, sold, executed, and delivered in the same manner as bonds. As with its bonds, the authority may sell such notes at public sale or at private sale. Any resolution or resolutions authorizing notices of the authority or any issue thereof may contain any provisions which the authority is authorized to include in any resolution or resolutions authorizing bonds of the authority to any issue thereof; and the authority may include in any notes any terms, covenants, or conditions which the authority is authorized to include in any bonds. Validation of such bonds shall be a condition precedent to the issuance of such bonds, but it shall not be required that such notes be judicially validated. Bond anticipation notes shall not be issued in an amount exceeding the par value of the bonds in anticipation of which they are to be issued.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 12)
Sec. 1-248. - Obligations of authority not public debt of state or political subdivision thereof.
No bonds, notes, or other obligations of and no indebtedness incurred by the authority shall constitute an indebtedness or obligation of the State of Georgia or any county, municipal corporation, or political subdivision thereof, nor shall any act of the authority in any manner, nor any contract entered into by the authority with any county, municipal corporation, or political subdivision thereof, constitute or result in the creation of an indebtedness of this state or any county, municipal corporation, or political subdivision thereof. Any county, municipal corporation, or political subdivision of this state may obligate itself to pay the payments required under such contracts from moneys received from taxes and from any other source without creating a debt within the meaning of Article IX, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia. No holder or holders of any such bonds, notes, or other obligations shall ever have the right to compel any exercise of the taxing power of the state or any county, municipal corporation, or political subdivision thereof, nor to enforce the payment thereof against the state or any such county, municipal corporation, or political subdivision.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 13)
Sec. 1-249. - Constitutional authority for enactment of act; tax exemption.
This Act is enacted pursuant to authority granted the General Assembly by the Constitution of the State of Georgia. The authority is created for nonprofit and public purposes, and it is found, determined, and declared that the creation of the authority and the carrying out of its corporate purposes is in all respects for the benefit of the people of this state and that the authority is an institution of purely public charity and will be performing an essential governmental function in the exercise of the power conferred upon it by this Act; and for such reasons the state covenants from time to time with the holders of the bonds, notes, and other obligations issued under this Act, that the authority shall be required to pay any taxes or assessments imposed by this state or any counties, municipal corporations, political subdivisions, or taxing districts thereof upon any property acquired by the authority or under its jurisdiction, control, possession, or supervision or leased by it to others or upon its activities in the operation or maintenance of any such property or on any income derived by the authority in the form of fees, recording fees, rentals, charges, purchase price, installments, or otherwise; and that the bonds, notes, and other obligations of the authority, their transfer, and the income therefrom shall at all times be exempt from taxation within this state. The tax exemption provided for in this Act shall not include any exemption from sales and use taxes on property purchased by the authority or for use by the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 14)
Sec. 1-250. - Applicability of the Georgia Securities Act of 1973.
The offer, sale, or issuance of bonds, notes, or other obligations by the authority shall not be subject to regulation under Chapter 5 of Title 10 of the O.C.G.A., the Georgia Securities Act of 1973. No notice, proceeding, or publication except those required by this Act shall be necessary to the performance of any act authorized by this Act, nor shall any such act be subject to referendum.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 15)
Sec. 1-251. - Effect of act under successor government.
Any reference in this Act to the City of Augusta shall be deemed to include the City of Augusta in its present governmental form or any governmental entity which may succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the current government. All provisions of this Act shall be effective under any such successor government, which would include, but is not limited to, a successor consolidated government of the City of Augusta and Richmond County.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 16)
Sec. 1-252. - Construction.
This Act and all provisions, rights, and powers granted to the authority, being for the welfare of the state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of its purposes.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 17)
Sec. 1-253. - Powers declared supplementary.
The provisions of this Act shall be regarded as supplementary and additional to powers conferred by other laws and shall not be regarded as being in derogation of any powers now existing.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 18)
Sec. 1-254. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this Act, which shall remain of full force and effect as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this Act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 19)
Sec. 1-255. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4750, § 20)
DIVISION 10. - AUGUSTA PORTS AUTHORITY

Sec. 1-256. - In general; purpose.
An Act creating the Augusta Ports Authority; conferring and granting powers and imposing duties; authorizing the execution of leases and agreements and the hypothecation and mortgaging of its properties; authorizing the Authority to sue and in certain instances to be sued; authorizing the issuance of revenue anticipation bonds and certificates upon certain conditions; making the bonds and certificates of the authority legal investments; fixing the lien status of special funds of the Authority; declaring the Authority to be a department and instrumentality of the State; exempting the property, income and bonds thereof from taxation; providing for the separate enactment of each provision of this Act and repealing all laws or parts of laws in conflict with the provisions of this Act; and for other purposes.
(Ga. Laws 1959, p. 2761, Act No. 261)
Sec. 1-257. - Augusta port authority.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in Richmond County to be known as the Augusta Port Authority.
(Ga. Laws 1959, p. 2761, § 1)
Sec. 1-258. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms shall have the following meaning:
(a)
Authority. The Augusta Port Authority created by Section 1 of this Act [section 1-257].
(b)
The word project shall be deemed to mean and include commercial and/or recreational development and activities, as well as special educational and/or entertainment events on the Savannah River or its shores. It shall also be deemed to mean and include the acquisition of lands, properties and improvements by purchase, lease or otherwise for industrial or manufacturing use, expansion and development, wharves, docks, terminals, ships, ferries, piers, quays, elevators, compresses, refrigeration storage plants, warehouses, buildings and facilities to be used in the manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing or handling of any agricultural or manufactured produce or produce of mining or industry, if the use and operation thereof will in the judgment of the Authority result in the increased use of the port facilities of the Port of Augusta. Any project may include other structures and any and all facilities needful for the convenient use of the same in the aid of commerce, including the dredging of approaches thereto, and the construction of belt line railroads, railroad sidings, roads, highways, bridges and causeways necessary or useful in connection therewith, and shipping facilities and transportation facilities incident thereto and useful or convenient for the use thereof, including terminal railroads, and also airports, seaplane bases, air transportation terminals, and truck terminals. There may be included as a part of any project any public utility facilities necessary or desirable to supply public utility services to other parts of such project or to the users of any of the facilities of the Authority which public utility facilities may include, but without limitation, facilities for the supplying of electricity, gas and water and for the collection and disposal of storm and sanitary sewage. There may be included as part of any project all appurtenances, equipment and machinery of every kind and nature necessary or desirable for the full utilization of the project.
(c)
The term cost of the project shall embrace the cost of construction and the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired, the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal agents and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation.
(d)
Any project shall be deemed self-liquidating if, in the judgment of the Authority, the revenues and earnings thereof will be sufficient to pay the cost of constructing, maintaining, repairing and operating the project and to pay the principal and interest of revenue bonds which may be issued for the cost of such project. Any buildings or facilities acquired by the Authority hereunder which are to be utilized in the manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing or handling of any agricultural or manufactured produce or produce of mine or industry, which may be acquired by the Authority for operation by a corporation, entity or persons other than the Authority, as distinguished from facilities acquired by the Authority for operation by it as a part and allied facilities for the direct use of the public, shall be acquired and financed hereunder only if prior to the issuance of bonds therefor the Authority shall have entered into a lease or leases thereof or an agreement or agreements for the sale thereof pursuant to the terms of which the lessees or purchasers shall pay to the Authority such rentals or installment purchase payments, or both, as upon the basis of determinations and findings to be made by the Authority, will be fully sufficient to pay principal of and interest on the bonds issued for the financing thereof, to build up and maintain any reserves deemed by the Authority to be advisable in connection therewith, and to pay the cost of maintaining the buildings and facilities in good repair and keeping them properly insured, unless the leases or agreements obligate the lessees or purchasers to pay for such insurance or maintenance. The Authority is given full power and discretion to enter into any such agreements or leases as may in its judgment be desirable for the best interests of the Authority. Any such agreement or lease may provide that any surplus capacity of the buildings or facilities which are the subject matter thereof may be utilized by and for the benefit of the general public, in which event such surplus capacity may be maintained or operated, or both, by either the Authority or by the lessee or purchaser under the lease or agreement, or in part by each, all as may be provided in the lease or agreement. Any project may include in part one or more buildings or facilities or combinations thereof to be leased or sold as provided in this paragraph and in part other facilities described in subsection (b) of this section, the revenues of the whole being allocated and pledged to the financing of the project as a whole, and in such event the requirements of this paragraph applicable to buildings or facilities to be leased or sold, shall be applicable only to the part of the project which consists of the buildings or facilities to be so leased or sold.
(e)
Port. Any place, natural or artificial, in Richmond County in which water going vessels may be sheltered or loaded or unloaded.
(f)
Harbor. Any place, natural or artificial, in Richmond County in which vessels capable of moving articles of commerce by waterborne vessels may be loaded, unloaded or accommodated.
(Ga. Laws 1959, p. 2761, § 2; Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4087, § 1)
Sec. 1-259. - Membership.
The authority shall consist of 12 members who shall serve for a term of years and who shall be eligible for reappointment. The members be residents and qualified voters of Augusta, Georgia. Except as nafter [hereinafter] provided, ten members of the authority shall be appointed by the Augusta-Richmond County Commission, which shall designate each member to be a representative of one of the ten commission districts for the Augusta-Richmond County Commission. Three current members of the authority shall continue to serve as members for terms expiring March 31, 2000, and shall be deemed to be representatives for the Augusta-Richmond County Commission Districts as follows: District 4—John P. Timmerman, District 6—Stovall Walker, and District 10—Dr. Carl Nechtman. Three current members of the authority shall continue to serve as members for terms expiring March 31, 2002, and shall be deemed to be representatives for the Augusta-Richmond County Commission Districts as follows: District 1—Virginia Fox, District 3—Richard Toole, and District 7—Jack Barber. New authority members shall be appointed as above set forth to be representatives for Districts 2 and 8 respectively for terms expiring March 31, 2000, and to be representatives for Districts 5 and 9 for terms expiring on March 31, 2002. In addition, two members shall be recommended by the Augusta-Richmond County delegation in the General Assembly of Georgia and appointed by the Augusta-Richmond County Commission, which shall designate one such member's term to expire March 31, 2000, and the other such member's term to expire March 31, 2002. Following expiration of the initial terms as set forth above, members of the authority shall serve four-year terms expiring on March 31 of the year of expiration. Vacancies shall be filled for any unexpired term. If, at the end of any term of office of any member, a successor to such member has not been appointed, the member whose term of office has expired shall continue to hold office until a successor is appointed and assumes office. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum and a majority may act for the authority in any matter. No vacancy shall impair the power of the authority to act. No member shall be a member of the Augusta-Richmond County Commission, but there shall be no other disqualification to hold public office by reason of membership in the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1959, p. 2761, § 3; Ga. Laws 1975, p. 2939, §§ 1, 2; Ga. Laws 1999, p. 4286, § 3)
Sec. 1-260. - Powers.
The powers of the Authority shall include but not be limited to, the power:
(a)
To buy, acquire, hold, develop, improve, own, operate, maintain, sell, dispose of, lease, as lessor or lessee, and mortgage land, buildings, real and personal property including stock of other corporations;
(b)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts;
(c)
To grant, loan and lease any of its funds and property to private persons and corporations promising to develop or promote commercial and/or recreational projects and special educational and/or entertainment events, to develop port facilities or utilize water transportation on the Savannah River within Richmond County or originating or terminating therein which in the judgment of the Authority will be of benefit to the people of The City of Augusta or Richmond County. The provisions of this clause shall not be construed to limit any other power of the Authority;
(d)
To borrow money and to issue notes, bonds and revenue certificates therefor and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor;
(e)
To contract with The City of Augusta, Richmond County and other political subdivisions and with private persons and corporations and to sue in its corporate name;
(f)
To have and exercise the usual powers of public and private corporations performing similar functions which are not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this State, including the power to appoint and select officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts and attorneys and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the Authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and by-laws and regulations for the conduct and management of the Authority;
(g)
To encourage and promote the development of commercial and/or recreational projects and special educational and/or entertainment events, the expansion of port and harbor development facilities and water transportation on the Savannah River, trade and commerce in Richmond County, and to make long range plans therefor;
(h)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(i)
To designate officers to sign and act for the Authority generally or in any specific matter;
(j)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the Authority expressly conferred by this Act;
(k)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions, and in such manner as it may deem proper or by condemnation in accordance with and subject to the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property or liens or easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, excepting such property, liens, easements and franchises used or owned by public service corporations, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the Authority; the Authority being under no obligation to accept or pay for any property so acquired except from the funds provided by authority of this Act. Any proceedings for condemnation shall be instituted in the same manner and under the same provisions of law governing condemnation of property for public use as that exercised by counties and municipalities of this State. If the Authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project on lands, the title to which shall then be in the County of Richmond or The City Council of Augusta, the governing authorities of Richmond County and of The City Council of Augusta are authorized in their discretion, to convey title to such lands to the Authority;
(l)
To make contracts, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases and rentals of projects or sale of projects, or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired. And the County of Richmond and The City Council of Augusta are hereby authorized to enter into leases or agreements with the Authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they may deem advisable;
(m)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage self-liquidating projects to be located on property owned or leased by the Authority, the cost of the project to be paid from the proceeds of revenue-anticipation certificates of the Authority and from any grant from the United States of America, State of Georgia, County of Richmond, The City Council of Augusta, or from any contribution by persons, firms, or corporations, all of which the Authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept;
(n)
To provide by resolution, when concurred in by The City Council of Augusta for the issuance and sale of negotiable revenue anticipation certificates, for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of acquisition, construction, alteration, repair, modernization and other charges incident thereto in connection with any of its facilities or projects, and to pay off or refinance any outstanding debt or obligation of any nature owed by said Authority, and shall likewise have power to issue refunding certificates. Said Authority may issue such types of certificates as may be determined by the members of said Authority, including certificates on which principal and interest are payable:
(1)
exclusively from incomes or revenues of the operation of the Authority financed with the proceeds of such certificates or together with such proceeds and grants from any instrumentality or other person or corporation in aid of such projects;
(2)
exclusively from income and revenue of certain designated projects; or
(3)
from revenues of the Authority generally. Any such certificates may be additionally secured by mortgage of the project or any part thereof constituting real or personal property of the Authority, except as prohibited by law.
a.
Neither the members of the Authority nor any person executing certificates on behalf of the Authority shall be personally liable thereon by reason of the issuance thereof. The certificates and other obligations of the Authority shall not be, (and shall so state on the face thereof) a debt of The City Council of Augusta, the County of Richmond, or the State of Georgia. Certificates of the Authority are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and, together with interest thereon and income therefrom, shall be exempt from all taxes.
b.
Certificates of the Authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937, as amended, and when validated the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such certificates and against the Authority issuing the same.
In the event that any payments to be made by any city, town, municipality or county, under contract of lease, or other contract, entered into between said Authority and such political subdivision, are pledged to the security or payment of revenue certificates sought to be validated, said Authority, as an integral part of such validation proceedings, shall have the right of action, suit, countersuit or equitable bill against such contracting subdivision or subdivisions for a declaratory adjudication of the validity and binding effect of such contract, the actual controversy therein being whether or not such contract is in all respects valid and binding upon such subdivision or subdivisions. Such subdivision or subdivisions shall be made a party or parties to the action, and it shall be incumbent on such subdivision or subdivisions to defend against an adjudication of the validity of such contract or be forever bound. Notice of such proceedings shall be included in the notice of validation hearing required to be issued and published by the clerk of the superior court in which such validation proceeding is pending. Any citizen resident in any subdivision which is a party to such contract may intervene in the validation proceedings at or before the time set for the validation hearing by order of the superior court and assert any ground of objection to the validity and binding effect of such contract on his own behalf and on behalf of the subdivision and all citizens, residents and property owners thereof. At adjudication as to the validity of such contract, unexpected to within the time provided for exceptions in the Revenue Certificate Act of 1937, as amended, shall be conclusive and binding upon such subdivision or subdivisions and the resident citizens and property owners thereof.
c.
Certificates of the Authority shall be authorized by its resolution when concurred in by the City Council of Augusta and may be issued in one or more series and shall bear such date or dates, mature at such time or times, bear interest at such rate or rates, be in such denomination or denominations, be in such form, either coupon or registered, carry such conversion or registration privileges, have such rank or priority, be executed in such manner, be payable in such medium of payment, at such place or places and be subject to such terms of redemption (with or without premium) as such resolution, its trust indenture or mortgage may provide, and in case any of the members or officers of the Authority whose signatures appear on any certificates or coupons shall cease to be such members or officers before the delivery of such certificates, such signatures shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes.
d.
Obligations of the Authority evidenced by certificates and trust indentures and mortgages executed in connection therewith may contain such provisions not inconsistent with law as shall be determined by the Authority and the Authority may in such instruments provide for the pledging of all or any part of its gross or net fees, tolls, charges, revenues and incomes and mortgaging of all or any part of its real or personal property or provide against pledging any or all of its income, revenues, tolls, charges, or fees and to further provide for the disposition of proceeds realized from the sale of any certificates and for the replacement of lost, destroyed or mutilated certificates and necessary provisions as to payment and redemption of such certificates. Undertakings of the Authority may likewise prescribe the procedure by which certificate holders may enforce rights against the Authority and provide for such rights upon breach of any covenant, condition or obligation of the Authority. Trust indentures, mortgages or deeds to secure debt executed by the Authority may provide that, in the event of default by the Authority in the payment of principal and interest on certificates or obligations or breach of any covenant, a trustee or trustees appointed under the terms of the indenture, mortgage or deed to secure debt, which shall be a bank or trust company authorized to exercise trust powers, may take possession and use, operate and manager any project mortgaged as security for the repayment of any indebtedness of the Authority and provide the terms and conditions upon which the trustee or trustees or holders of certificates may enforce any right relating to such certificates. Such trust indentures, mortgages and deeds to secure debt may contain such provisions as may be deemed necessary or desirable by the Authority not inconsistent with law.
e.
It is hereby found, determined and declared that the Authority herein created constitutes a department and instrumentality of the State of Georgia, that the carrying out of the purposes of this Act and the powers and duties imposed in the Authority will constitute the performance of an essential governmental function of the State, will promote the natural resources of the State, and will benefit the inhabitants of the State, and accordingly it is provided and the State covenants with the holders from time to time of the bonds issued hereunder that: (1) the Authority shall be required to pay no taxes or assessments imposed by the State or any of its political subdivisions or taxing districts upon any property acquired by the Authority or under its jurisdiction, control, possession or supervision, or upon its activities in the operation or maintenance of any such properties, or on any income derived by the Authority from such facilities or otherwise, and (2) that the bonds of the Authority, their transfer and the income therefrom shall always be exempted from taxation within the State.
f.
Notwithstanding any restrictions on investments contained in any laws of this State, the State and all public officers, municipal corporations, political subdivisions, and public bodies, all banks, bankers, trust companies, saving banks and institutions, building and loan associations, savings and loan associations, investment companies, and other persons carrying on a banking business, all insurance companies, insurance associations and other persons carrying on an insurance business and all executors, administrators, guardians, trustees and other fiduciaries may legally invest any sinking funds, monies or other funds belonging to them or within their control in any bonds or other obligations issued by the Authority pursuant to this Act, when such bonds or other obligations are secured by rentals or other monies to be paid by the United States of America or any department or agency thereof, and such bonds and other obligations shall be authorized security for all public deposits; it being the purpose of this section to authorize any persons, firms, corporations, associations, political subdivisions, bodies and officers, public or private, to use any funds owned or controlled by them, including (but not limited to) sinking, insurance, investment, retirement, compensation, pension and trust funds, and funds held on deposit, for the purchase of any such bonds or other obligations. Provided, however, that nothing contained in this section shall be construed as relieving any person, firm or corporation from any duty of exercising reasonable care in selecting securities.
g.
Obligations of the Authority other than certificates shall be payable from general funds of the Authority and shall at no time be a charge against any, special fund allocated to the payment of certificates except upon payment of current annual maturities and reserves thereof.
(Ga. Laws 1959, p. 2761, § 4; Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4087, §§ 2, 3)
Sec. 1-261. - Notice to Georgia Ports Authority.
The Authority shall not undertake any project for the construction or acquisition of any wharves, docks, piers, quays or similar structures for public use along or over that portion of the waters of the Savannah River which are under the jurisdiction of the Georgia Ports Authority without first notifying the Georgia Ports Authority; and the Georgia Ports Authority shall have the right of refusing to approve such project, and may require, as a prerequisite to its consideration and approval, the submission to it by the Authority of an analysis, in such form as it may prescribe of said project. If the Georgia Ports Authority shall disapprove any such project, after such analysis has been submitted and considered by it, the Authority is prohibited from proceeding therewith.
(Ga. Laws 1959, p. 2761, § 5)
Sec. 1-262. - Repealer.
All laws or parts of laws in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
(Ga. Laws 1959, p. 2761, § 6; Ga. Laws 1975, p. 2939, § 3; Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4087, § 4)
DIVISION 11. - AUGUSTA REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Pursuant to § 1 of Ga. Laws 1982, p. 4597, a contract was entered into with the Downtown Development Authority of the City of Augusta dated July 29, 1982, therefore, the Augusta Redevelopment Authority ceased to exist and this Division has been repealed.

Sec. 1-263—1-286. - Reserved.
