ARTICLE 4. - CIVIL COURT

Sec. 5-133. - Creation.
A Civil Court of Richmond County is hereby established and created, and from and after January 1, 1933, and the election and qualification of the officers of said Civil Court of Richmond County, Georgia, no justice court, or justice of the peace or notary public ex officio justice of the peace or constable shall have or exercise any jurisdiction civil or criminal, within the city limits of Augusta, Georgia, as they now or may be hereafter defined.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 1)
Sec. 5-134. - Jurisdiction—Criminal jurisdiction; continuation of power, authority of clerk, deputies; civil cases arising under common law or by statute; jurisdictional amount; criminal effect of counterclaim or setoff.
(a)
The criminal jurisdiction of the civil court shall be the same as that now or hereafter conferred upon the magistrate courts of this state.
(b)
The clerk and each deputy clerk of the Civil Court of Richmond County shall continue to exercise the power and authority, under the immediate supervision of the chief judge or the presiding judge of said court, to issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged with the commission of crimes committed in Richmond County, to the same extent as these clerks and deputy clerks have heretofore been authorized to act.
(c)
The jurisdiction of the civil court of said county as to all civil cases, proceedings, summary and statutory, claims or counterclaims, arising ex contact or ex delicto, shall be concurrent with the jurisdiction of the state court of said county in every civil claim, matter or proceeding in which the principal amount claimed, indebtedness, damages or value of property claimed in controversy by any party litigant does not exceed $45,000.00, exclusive of interest, hire, statutory penalty, attorney's fee and court costs.
(d)
Should any defending party file a counterclaim or setoff which seeks an affirmative recovery for a principal amount or value in excess of $45,000.00 and the jurisdictional limits of the civil court as heretofore defined, upon such fact being brought to the attention of the court, the judge of the civil court to whom the case or matter is assigned shall pass an order transferring the entire case or matter to the State Court of Richmond County, Georgia, or to the superior court, if made necessary by the character of the relief sought, for all future action, unless the case shall be transferred back to the civil court by the higher court. After crediting the plaintiff's cost deposit to the clerk of civil court, the defendant shall be required to pay to the clerk of state and superior court any additional cost to file the pleadings and record in the higher court to which the defendant has required the case to be transferred.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 2; Ga. Laws 1981, p. 3575, § 1; Ga. Laws 1984, p. 4467, § 10; Ga. Laws 1990, p. 4109, § 1)
Sec. 5-135. - Same—Distress warrants; dispossessory warrants; eviction.
The Civil Court of Richmond County, Georgia shall have jurisdiction to try and determine all distress warrants and dispossessory warrants and proceedings to evict intruders, and to dispossess and remove tenants holding over. The plaintiff in such proceedings shall have the right to direct the return of the same as to the issues to be tried thereon to either the Civil Court of Richmond County, Georgia, or to the Superior Court of Richmond County, Georgia; provided, such election is stated in the warrant or affidavit or counter-affidavit at the time the same is filed, and if no such election is so stated said warrant or affidavit shall be returnable to the Civil Court of Richmond County, Georgia. And in the event that said warrant should be contested and triable in the Civil Court of Richmond County, Georgia, all issues of law and fact formed thereon by counter-affidavit or otherwise shall be tried by the judge of said court without the intervention of jury, unless a demand for jury trial is filed at the time of filing said warrant, affidavit, counter-affidavit or pleadings thereon, either by the plaintiff or defendant. Failure to file such a demand for trial by jury shall be deemed as a waiver of a jury trial.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 3)
Sec. 5-136. - Chief judge—Election.
There shall be a judge of said civil court, who shall be known as the chief judge, whose term of office shall be four years and who shall be elected by the qualified voters of the County of Richmond quadrennially at the regular state election for the election of members of the general assembly and in the same year in which presidential elections are held; provided that the chief judge of said court first elected under the terms of this act [article] shall be elected on the third Wednesday in December, 1932, at the election to be held for that purpose; provided, further, that all qualified voters of the county resident in and/or outside of the City of Augusta shall be permitted to vote in the voting precinct in which they live in the same manner as they vote for other candidates for other state and/or county officers.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 4)
Sec. 5-137. - Same—Oath; qualifications.
The chief judge of said civil court shall be commissioned by the governor and before entering upon the duties of his office shall take the same oath required by law of superior court judges; any person who shall be elected chief judge or appointed clerk or marshal of said civil court must at the time of his election or appointment be a qualified voter of Richmond County, and the chief judge of said court must have the same qualifications as the judges of the superior court and state court. The chief judge of said court shall be subject to the same restrictions as imposed by law upon the superior court judges relative to the prohibition of practicing law.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 6)
Sec. 5-138. - Same—Vacancy.
Every vacancy in the office of chief judge of said civil court, occasioned by death, resignation, retirement or other cause shall be filled by appointment of the governor for the unexpired term thereof.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 6)
Sec. 5-139. - Associate judge.
There shall be an associate judge of civil court who shall have the same qualifications as required of the chief judge of said court. The said associate judge shall exercise all the functions, have the same powers and perform the same duties and have the same jurisdiction as the chief judge thereof, except as may be otherwise provided in this act [article]. The compensation of said associate judge shall be $51,852.00 per annum, to be paid as the other officers of said court are paid; provided that the associate judge shall be prohibited from the practice of law in the Civil Court, Richmond County, Georgia, only. The said associate judge shall be appointed by the governor within 30 days after this act [article] is approved or otherwise becomes law and his office shall run concurrent with the terms of the office of the chief judge; thereafter he shall be elected in the same manner and at the same time as the chief judge. When a vacancy occurs in the office of associate judge of said civil court, occasioned by death, resignation or other cause, it shall be filled by appointment of the governor for the unexpired term thereof.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 8; Ga. Laws 1976, p. 3155, § 1; Ga. Laws 1982, p. 3941; Ga. Laws 1983, p. 4173; Ga. Laws 1984, p. 4642; Ga. Laws 1985, p. 5003; Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5361; Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4113; Ga. Laws 1992, p. 6068; Ga. Laws 1996, p. 4405)
Sec. 5-140. - Powers of judges.
The chief judge of said civil court and the associate judge are hereby clothed with the same powers and authority as is conferred by the constitution and laws of this state upon a justice of the peace, judge of superior court, and with such additional rights, powers, and jurisdiction as is provided by the terms of this act [article]; said chief judge of said civil court and the associate judge shall have the power and authority, under the limitations set out in this act [article], to hear, determine, and dispose of all cases and actions, both civil and criminal, of which said court has jurisdiction, and to give judgment and execution therein; to hold court from day to day continuously, if necessary, to the dispatch of the business of said court. The chief judge of said court and the associate judge shall have the same power to preserve order, to compel obedience to their orders, to inflict summary punishment for contempt, to enforce the judgment of their court, as is given by law to the judges of the superior courts of this state; provided, however, that said judges shall have no power to impose punishment for contempt exceeding a fine of $300.00 and/or 30 days in the county jail. The judges of said civil court shall have, in addition to the powers enumerated in this section, all the powers, prerogatives and authority, in matters wherein the subject matter and the amount involved are not beyond the jurisdiction of said court that are conferred upon the judges of the superior court, and said powers, prerogatives and authority shall apply to the chief judge of said civil court and the associate judge, so far as the same may be applicable, unless inconsistent with the provisions of this act [article].
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 7)
Sec. 5-141. - Salaries of chief judge and associate judge and court employees.
The salary of the chief judge of civil court shall be $51,267.00 per annum; the salary of the clerk of said court shall be fixed by the chief judge from time to time at an amount not to exceed $9,720.00 per annum and the clerk of said court shall have the power, by and with the consent of said chief judge of said court, to appoint a chief deputy clerk and the salary of the chief deputy clerk shall be fixed by the chief judge from time to time at an amount not to exceed $7,620.00 per annum, and the clerk of said court shall have the power by and with the consent of the chief judge of said court to appoint six deputy clerks and the salary of each of said deputy clerks shall be fixed by the chief judge from time to time at an amount not to exceed $6,300.00 per annum. The salary of the marshal of said court shall be fixed by the chief judge from time to time at any amount not to exceed $10,740.00 per annum and the marshal of said court shall have power by and with the consent of the chief judge of said court to appoint a chief deputy marshal and the salary of the chief deputy marshal shall be fixed by the chief judge from time to time at an amount not to exceed $8,400.00 per annum, and 11 deputy marshals and the salary of each deputy marshal shall be fixed by the chief judge from time to time at an amount not to exceed $7,260.00 per annum; provided, however, that said chief deputy marshal, chief deputy clerk or deputy clerks, or deputy marshals shall serve only during such time as both the chief judge and the clerk and/or marshal may deem their services necessary and to the best interest of the court. Any such deputy clerk or deputy marshal at any time, and any such vacancy or vacancies this created shall be filled in the same manner as such officers were originally appointed under this act [article], as amended.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 9; Ga. Laws 1976, p. 3155, § 1; Ga. Laws 1978, p. 3347, § 1; Ga. Laws 1982, p. 3941; Ga. Laws 1983, p. 4173; Ga. Laws 1984, p. 4642; Ga. Laws 1985, p. 5003; Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5361; Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4113; Ga. Laws 1992, p. 6068; Ga. Laws 1996, p. 4405)
Note— As of January 1, 2006, the salary of the chief judge was increased to $112,467.97 and the salary of the associate judge was increased to $110,686.68.
Sec. 5-142. - Secretaries.
The chief judge of said civil court and the associate judge shall have the power to appoint and at pleasure to remove two secretaries to serve the judges of said court. Such secretaries shall take all stenographic notes, transcribe same, required by the judges of said court and do and perform such other duties as the judges of said court may require in chambers or in court. Said secretaries shall have the same powers and authorities and exercise all the functions and be subject to all responsibilities and requirements of a deputy clerk of said court. The salary of the secretaries of said court shall be fixed by said judges from time to time at an amount not to exceed $6,600.00 per annum. The compensation of all officers of said civil court shall be paid monthly out of the treasury of Richmond County, Georgia, upon the warrants of the chief judge of said court by the officer or officers charged by law with paying out the money of said county and charged as part of the expenses of said court.
No credit for service shall be granted for any time during which a person was not actually an employee of the civil court and for Richmond County, Georgia, and receive compensation therefor in the position for which such increase is authorized.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, 9A)
§ 5-143. - Court reporter.
In addition to the personnel which the chief judge may appoint as hereinbefore provided, said judge shall have the power to appoint, and at pleasure to remove, a court reporter, to serve the civil court and judges thereof. Such reporter shall report and transcribe all criminal matters required by the judges of said court, and do and perform such other duties as the judges of said court may require in chambers or in court. The salary of the court reporter of said court shall be fixed by the chief judge from time to time at an amount not to exceed $6,000.00 per annum, and shall be paid monthly out of the treasury of Richmond County, Georgia, upon the warrants of the chief judge of said court, by the officer or officers charged by law with paying out the money of the county and charged as part of the court expenses of said court.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 9B)
Sec. 5-143.1. - Salary, marshal of civil court.
The provisions of this Act or any other provision of law notwithstanding, on and after January 1, 2000, the salary of the marshal of the Civil Court of Richmond County, Georgia, shall be $60,000.00 per annum.
(Ga. Laws 1999, P3508, § 2, added newly adopted language, § 5-143.1)
Note— As of January 1, 2006, the salary of the marshal of the civil court was increased as set forth below:
$82,201.68.
Sec. 5-144. - Marshal, clerk and deputies—Appointment.
The marshal and the clerk of the Civil Court of Richmond County, Georgia, shall be appointed by the chief judge of said court for a term of office to run concurrently with his own. The marshal and the clerk of said court shall have authority, with the approval of the chief judge of said court, to name their deputies who shall hold said office at the pleasure of the said marshal or clerk as the case may be, subject to approval of the chief judge of said court. It is hereby further provided that the chief judge, and associate judge and all of the other officers of the Civil Court of Richmond County, Georgia, now serving their present term of office are hereby confirmed as the chief judge, and associate judge and other officers of said court, to name their deputies who shall hold said office at the pleasure of said marshal or clerk as the case may be subject to approval of the chief judge of said court. It is hereby further provided that the judge and all of the other officers of the Civil Court of Richmond County, Georgia, now serving their present term of office are hereby confirmed as the judge and other officers of said court.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 10; Ga. Laws 1978, p. 3341, § 1)
Sec. 5-144.1. - Election of civil court marshal by popular vote.
(a)
The provisions of Section 10 of Act 70, H.B. 554 of April 30, 2007 or any other provision of law notwithstanding, the person serving as marshal of the Civil Court of Richmond County on January 1, 2007, shall continue to serve as such for the remainder of his or her term expiring December 31, 2009; except in case of vacancy created by death, resignation, or disqualification, in which event a special election to fill such vacancy for the remainder of such term may be called and held as provided by general law.
(b)
The successor to the marshal serving as provided in subsection (a) of this section shall be elected at an election held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November, 2009, shall take office on January 1, 2010, and shall serve a term of office of four years beginning January 1 following such election and until the election and qualification of a successor.
(c)
All elections under this section shall be conducted on a nonpartisan basis, without a primary, and as provided by Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. All persons elected to the office of marshal of the Civil Court of Richmond County under the provisions of this section shall be elected by majority vote.
(d)
Any other provision of law notwithstanding, all persons serving as marshal of said court under the provisions of this section shall have the authority to manage the affairs of said office and to name their deputies who shall hold said office at the pleasure of the marshal.
(Ga. Laws 1999, p. 3508, § 3)
Sec. 5-145. - Same—Powers—Generally; bond.
All of the requirements and duties, powers and authority imposed by law upon and conferred upon the clerk of Richmond County Superior Court and the sheriff of Richmond County shall be obligatory upon and shall be vested in the clerk and marshal of said civil court, and the several deputies, respectively, and shall be concurrent and coexistent with said clerk of superior court and sheriff of Richmond County. Provided, however, that the amount of the bond of the clerk of said civil court shall be ten thousand dollars, and the amount of the bond of the marshal of said civil court shall be ten thousand dollars, and the amount of the bond of deputy clerks of said civil court shall be one thousand dollars, and the amount of the bond of deputy marshals of said civil court shall be one thousand dollars; and all such bonds have as surety thereon a surety company doing business in this state and having an office and authorized to do business in Georgia, and premium of such bonds to be paid out of the county treasury of Richmond County, Georgia.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 11; Ga. Laws 1978, p. 3341, § 1)
Sec. 5-145.1. - Marshal of civil court, powers.
The powers and duties conferred upon the marshal of the Civil Court of Richmond County, Georgia, and the deputies thereof, shall specifically include, without limitation, the power and duty to enforce laws and ordinances regulating abandoned motor vehicles pursuant to Code Section 40-11-1, et seq., of the O.C.G.A. or other applicable law or ordinance and laws and ordinances regulating littering on private or public property pursuant to Code Section 16-7-40, et seq., of the O.C.G.A. or local ordinances adopted pursuant to Code Section 16-7-48 of the O.C.G.A. and to issue citations for violations thereof; and the same shall be to the exclusion of any other officers or employees of Richmond County except the sheriff and his or her deputies.
(Ga. Laws 1999, Page 4132, § 1)
Sec. 5-146. - Specific powers of clerks.
The clerk and deputy clerks of said civil court shall have complete power and authority, coexistent and coordinate with the power of the judges of said court, under the provisions of this act, to issue any and all warrants, civil and criminal, suits, and garnishments, writs of attachment, distress warrants, dispossessory warrants, warrants against intruders, warrants against tenant holding over, possessory warrants, bail trover and summary processes and writs which are issuable as a matter of right, to accept and approve bonds and to discharge any and all other functions, which under the laws of this state are performable by a justice of the peace. And all deputy clerks, and deputy marshals, if and when appointed under the terms of this act, shall exercise all the functions and be subject to all the responsibilities and requirements of the clerk and marshal of said court.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 12; Ga. Laws 1978, p. 3341, § 1)
Sec. 5-147. - Court of record; jurisdictional purposes.
Said civil court shall be a court of record, and shall have a seal, and minutes, records and other books and files that are required by law to be kept by the superior court, so far as the jurisdiction of said civil court may render necessary, and said records shall be kept in and for said civil court, and said civil court is hereby declared to be a court of record for all purposes of jurisdiction, including, but not restricted to:
(a)
motions for summary judgment;
(b)
all matters arising under the Uniform Criminal Extradition Act, approved February 21, 1951, as amended;
(c)
Uniform Act for Out-of-State Parolee Supervision, approved February 17, 1950, as amended;
(d)
Nonresident Motorists Act, as amended; and
(e)
Georgia Civil Practice Act, as amended;
provided that the clerk of said civil court shall preserve in suitable files all original papers in each case, which shall not be removed from said clerk's office without the permission of the judges of said court, and proper receipt being given to said clerk or deputy clerks of said court.
(Ga. Laws 1971, p. 2745, § 13; Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 13)
Sec. 5-148. - Court of inquiry jurisdiction.
With the exception of the judges of Richmond Superior Court and the judge of the State Court of Richmond County, the said civil court shall have exclusive jurisdiction to sit as a court of inquiry to examine into accusations against persons arrested on warrants for offenses committed within the limits of said County of Richmond.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 14)
Sec. 5-149. - Warrants, processes, writs, etc., Returnable to civil court.
All warrants, summary processes, writs, processes, garnishments, attachments and suits issuing out of said civil court, in which the principal sum claimed to be due or the value of the property in dispute does not exceed twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), shall be returnable to said civil court in the same manner and under the same rules as such writs are required to be returned to the superior court.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 15; Ga. Laws 1981, p. 3575, § 1)
Sec. 5-150. - Practice and procedure—General law as to superior courts applicable.
The general laws of this state in regard to commencement of actions in the superior courts, and defenses thereto of whatever nature, the pleadings, the method of procedure and practice therein and in regard to the examination of the parties to suits or witnesses, by interrogatories or under subpoena, witnesses and their attendance, continuances, charge of the court, granting of new trials, and other matters of a judicial nature within the jurisdiction of said civil court, shall be applicable to said civil court, except as may be otherwise provided in this act.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 16)
Sec. 5-151. - Same—Suits and garnishments to conform with superior court procedure; service of process.
Suits and garnishments in said civil court shall in all respects be conformable to the code of procedure in the superior courts; process of suit shall be annexed by the clerk of said court and shall be served by the marshal of said court or his lawful deputies; all executions, warrants, writs and summary processes of any kind issuing from said civil court shall be issued by any of the judges thereof or in any one of their names by the clerk or deputy clerks, and be directed to the marshal and his lawful deputies of said civil court and to all and singular the marshals and deputy marshals, and lawful constables of this state, and shall be executed by the marshal or his deputy marshal, or lawful constable or other peace officer, as now provided by law for such proceedings from the superior courts, or justice of the peace courts of this state.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 17; Ga. Laws 1978, p. 3341, § 1)
Sec. 5-152. - Same—Rules in suits transferred from magistrate courts.
Civil matters involving claims, counterclaims and other proceedings which do not exceed the jurisdiction of the magistrate court, even though directed to the civil court, shall be considered and dealt with and adjudged under the same rules, practice and procedure applicable to cases filed and tried in the Magistrate Court of Richmond County and shall be transferred to the magistrate court unless a written demand for trial by jury is filed with the complaint or answer and the amount of value in controversy is $500.00 or greater.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 19; Ga. Laws 1981, p. 3575, § 2; Ga. Laws 1984, p. 4467, § 11)
Sec. 5-153. - Terms.
The terms of said civil court shall be held monthly, on the fourth Monday in each month; suits, garnishments and attachments shall be filed in the clerk's office of said court at least forty (40) days before the first day of the term to which they are returnable; however, whenever said day shall fall on a Saturday or a Sunday, it shall be held on the first Monday following said Saturday or Sunday, and shall be served at least thirty (30) days before the first day of said term. The terms of said court shall end at 12:00 noon, on the fourth Monday in each month for the preceding term. The right of opening default shall be governed by the same rules of law now in force as to opening defaults in the superior courts of this state, whether judgment has been rendered in said case or not.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 18)
Sec. 5-154. - Assignment of cases for trial.
After the appearance day, any case may be assigned for trial by any of the judges of said civil court on any day after giving reasonable notice to all parties, unless continued for good cause shown, and in conformance with such rules and regulations of procedure now promulgated and of force, or which hereafter may be adopted in said court. If a case so placed on the trial calendar is not disposed of within ninety (90) days after the appearance day to which it is brought, it may be dismissed by any of the judges in the exercise of sound discretion, without prejudice to anyone, and costs taxed against the delinquent party.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 20)
Sec. 5-155. - Jury—Demand for jury trial.
Every civil case or proceeding which is filed and addressed to the civil court and which is not transferred to the magistrate court or a higher court shall be governed and disposed of in accordance with the Georgia Civil Practice Act, chapter 11 of title 9 of the O.C.G.A., and other rules and laws applicable to the state and superior courts. Either of the judges of the civil court may hear and decide any motion or objection presented at any stage of a case, and either of the judges may preside at the trial and enter an interlocutory order or final judgment, whichever the judge deems proper after each hearing or trial. No trial by jury shall be held in the civil court unless one of the parties demands the same in the original pleading filed by the party in the case or exhibit attached or unless one of the parties demands jury trial by amendment to his pleading filed and presented to the court at least 48 hours before the time previously set by the court for trial of the case on its merits without a jury.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 21; Ga. Laws 1984, p. 4467, § 12)
Sec. 5-156. - Same—Selection.
Every trial by jury in the Civil Court of Richmond County shall be before a jury of six members unless the amount or value in controversy exceeds $5,000.00 and one of the parties files a timely demand in writing for trial by a jury of 12. In all instances the manner of selecting a trial jury shall be governed by subsection (a) of Code section 15-12-122 of the O.C.G.A.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 22; Ga. Laws 1984, p. 4467, § 13)
Sec. 5-157. - Same—Qualifications, relationship, impaneling, etc., of jurors.
All laws with reference to the qualifications, relationship, impaneling, challenging and compensation of jurors, now or hereafter in force, applicable to the Superior Court of Richmond County, Georgia, shall apply to and be observed in said civil court except as where in conflict with the terms of this act.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 23)
Sec. 5-158. - Same—Number of jurors on panel; alternate jurors.
All jury trials in civil court shall be by a jury of six. From said panel of traverse jurors drawn and summoned in accordance with the provisions of this act, any of the judges of said civil court shall cause to be made up at least one panel of jurors containing twelve jurors, and as many other jurors as may in his discretion be necessary, and all cases and issues to be tried by jury at such term of said civil court shall be tried by a jury stricken from a panel of jurors thus drawn, plaintiff and defendant each being entitled to three preemptory challenges. In the event that said jurors should be reduced below twelve for any cause, or when challenged or from any other cause there shall not be a sufficient number of persons in attendance to complete the panel of jurors, the judge shall draw the tales jurors from the jury box as now provided by law, and order the marshal to summon the jurors so drawn; and when the marshal or his deputy shall be disqualified to summon talesmen, they may be summoned by the sheriff of Richmond County or his deputies, or such other person as the judge may appoint.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 24, 1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3341, § 1)
Sec. 5-159. - Sale of real or personal property levied upon under process.
All sales of personal property levied upon under process of civil court, or any other process, summary processes, or any other execution, executed by said civil court officers, shall take place at the courthouse door during the legal hours of sale, at public outcry, on the Monday next following ten days' advertisement by notice posted before the courthouse door and two other public places, describing the property to be sold, the place and hour of sale, the name and residence of the owner of the property, and the style of the case in which the execution issued. Such sales are to be conducted by the marshal of said court or his deputy, provided that sales of perishable property and sales on the premises may be made as provided by law; and provided, further, that in all cases where real estate is levied upon under a process from civil court, or any other court, the subsequent proceedings shall conform to the laws governing the sale of real estate, save and except that all advertisement and sale of real estate shall be conducted by the marshal of said court or his deputy.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 25; Ga. Laws 1978, p. 3341, § 1; Ga. Laws 1980, p. 3533, § 1)
Sec. 5-160. - Reporting case; costs of reporting.
The chief judge of the Civil Court of Richmond County, Georgia, and the associate judge of said court shall have the same authority as the judge of the superior court to order a case reported, and they may direct the case reported when either party or counsel requests it, or when in the discretion of the judge the ends of justice require that the case may be reported. Whenever a case is reported in said court, either by agreement of parties or counsel, or by discretion of the court under the rule, the costs of such reporting shall be taxed equally against the parties to the case and shall be assessed as costs in the case under the same rules as prevail in the superior court, save that the charge for such reporting shall not exceed the amount set by the Judicial Council of the State of Georgia. If either party or counsel objects to the reporting of the case, the party so objecting shall not be charged with any expense of reporting the case unless the judge on preliminary investigation shall determine that the case is one that should be reported and shall direct it reported under the rule.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 26; Ga. Laws 1980, p. 3533, § 1)
Sec. 5-161. - When judgments conclusive; new trial; appeals.
(a)
In all cases in civil court wherein the principal sum claimed or the value of property in controversy does not exceed $500.00, whether tried by jury, or tried by the judge without a jury, the judgment of said court shall be conclusive, and no new trial shall be granted; provided, nevertheless, that said case may be carried to the superior court by certiorari as provided by the general laws in reference to the writ of certiorari.
(b)
In all cases in said court tried by any of the judges thereof without a jury or tried by jury, in which the principal sum claimed or the value of the property in controversy exceeds $500.00, upon announcement of the judgment by the court, or upon rendition of the verdict by the jury, any party or his counsel may make a written motion for a new trial within 30 days after judgment is entered in said case. Unless said motion for new trial is made as herein provided, the parties shall be held to have waived their right to move for a new trial, except upon the grounds on which extraordinary motions for new trial may be made. Said motion may be heard at such time within 60 days after the making of said motion as the court in its discretion may set for a hearing; provided, nevertheless, that upon the disposition of a motion for a new trial by said civil court, any party, plaintiff or defendant, or claimant therein, may certiorari said case to the Superior Court of Richmond County under the general law of the writ of certiorari. Provided, however, that in the event the case is tried before a jury, then in this event the right of certiorari will not lie and the appeal shall be to the court of appeals or supreme court pursuant to jurisdiction requirement.
(c)
From any final judgment of the civil court an appeal shall lie to the Court of Appeals of the State of Georgia under the same rules which apply to appeals from the state and superior courts.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 27; Ga. Laws 1984, p. 4467, § 14)
Sec. 5-162. - Judgments as liens.
All judgments obtained in said civil court shall be liens upon property belonging to the defendant or defendants, to the same extend and upon the same conditions as judgments of the superior courts of this state.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 28)
Sec. 5-163. - Costs—Deposits; exception.
From and after the passage of this act, it shall be necessary for the plaintiff, before or at the time of instituting any civil proceeding in said court, to deposit with the clerk of said court the sum of $14.00 upon the costs that will accrue therein; provided, nevertheless, if any plaintiff who may desire to institute any action in said court is unable from poverty to make the said costs deposits, he may make an affidavit to that effect and file the same with the proceeding sought to be sued out or instituted, whereupon it shall be the duty of the officers of said court to proceed with said matter as though said deposit had been paid. Provided, nevertheless, that the clerk of said court shall not be required to file any proceedings in which the plaintiff is a nonresident and the amount involved, or the property in controversy, does not exceed $500.00, until $14.00 shall have been deposited with the clerk, of [or if] the amount involved, or the property in controversy, exceeds $500.00, until $24.00 shall have been deposited with the clerk, on account of costs. The court at any stage of such cause, on motion of the clerk, shall require such additional deposit as the case may require. If the case be withdrawn or dismissed, or if, upon final judgment, the deposit exceeds the amount of the cost taxable by law, the clerk shall refund to the depositor the excess.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 29; Ga. Laws 1980, p. 3533, § 1; Ga. Laws 1982, p. 3738, § 1)
Sec. 5-164. - Same—Collection.
It shall be the duty of the judges of said civil court to see to it that the officers of their court are diligent in the collection of costs and shall adopt such other measures and rules as will insure the payment of costs by the parties or parties therefor.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 30)
Sec. 5-165. - Jurisdiction of justice courts in City of Augusta.
No officer of any justice court whose district lies in whole or in part within the limits of the City of Augusta, Georgia, shall have authority to issue or serve any civil, quasi-criminal paper, process, or writ of any character, against any person, firm, or corporation residing within the corporate limits of Richmond County, Georgia, without regard to the location of the court from which said paper or process issued, nor shall any justice of the peace issue any criminal warrant for any misdemeanor or crime committed within the limits of the City of Augusta, Georgia.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 31)
Sec. 5-166. - Jurisdiction of civil court in justice court matters.
In the event any justice of the peace whose district adjoins the City of Augusta is disqualified from presiding in a particular case or refuses to serve in such case, or if such justice of the peace is sued and there is no justice in his district who is qualified to act, said Civil Court of Richmond County, Georgia, shall have jurisdiction of such case concurrent with justice courts in other adjoining districts.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 32)
Sec. 5-167. - Transfer of pending cases from justice court to civil court.
(a)
All cases, civil or criminal, pending and undisposed of, from and after the passage of this act, in justice courts lying within the city limits of Augusta, Georgia, shall be and they are hereby transferred to said civil court for trial and disposition therein. All final and other processes in the hands of officers of said justice courts shall be by them returned to said civil court and the judges and other officers of said civil court shall have power and authority to issue and enforce in the name of said civil court any and all processes in any case from said justice courts necessary to the final disposition of the same, which from any cause have not been issued and enforced by the officers of said justice courts. All fi. fa.'s, and final processes not satisfied in the hands of the officers of said justice court, from and after passage of this act, shall be levied by the officers of said civil court. All records, books, and papers in cases disposed of and on file in said justice courts shall be filed and deposited with the clerk of said civil court, and all property of parties to action in said justice courts in the legal custody of the said court shall be delivered, to the marshal of said civil court. It is hereby made the duty of said justices of the peace and/or constables to which this act is applicable to comply with the provisions of this section; and any justice of the peace and/or constable who shall fail to transmit such suits, papers and documents, or to return such final or other processes, or to deliver the books and records or property in the custody of the courts, within three days after written demand for such transmission or delivery has been made by the clerk of said civil court or any party at interest, shall be held in contempt of said civil court, and be punished as provided in cases of contempt in the superior courts of the State of Georgia. The officers of said justice courts in this section referred to shall be entitled to all uncollected costs which have accrued in the cases in their respective courts so transferred up to the passage of this act, upon the collection of the same by the officers of said civil court.
(b)
The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall apply to the justices of the peace and justice courts whose districts are within the city limits of Augusta, Georgia, in all cases, civil or criminal, jurisdiction of which will devolve upon said civil court pending and undisposed of from and after the passage of this act, and none other.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 33; Ga. Laws 1978, p. 3341, § 1)
Sec. 5-168. - Building; supplies.
The Board of Commissioners of Richmond County, Georgia, shall provide a suitable and convenient place for holding of said Civil Court of Richmond County, Georgia; and shall provide all necessary books, stationery and filing cases for keeping the dockets, files and records of said court, and other things necessary to the conduct of the business of said court.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 34)
Sec. 5-169. - Reports, codes and acts to be furnished by state librarian.
A complete set of the published reports of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals of Georgia, and the Acts of the General Assembly of Georgia commencing with Acts of 1910 and the Code of 1933, Annotated, shall be furnished by the state librarian to the clerk of said court for the use of said court.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 35)
Sec. 5-170. - Reserved.
Sec. 5-171. - Disposal of old records.
The clerk of said civil court shall be and is hereby authorized from time to time, upon direction of the chief judge of said court to destroy or dispose of old records of said court which have served their usefulness and which in the opinion of said chief judge and clerk, have no further value to the court, or to the public, but are merely occupying valuable filing space. The authority hereby granted shall include all the books, papers and documents of said court now in the possession of said clerk, or which may hereafter come into his possession, of any nature and kind whatsoever, which in the case of criminal warrants, are at least five years old, all dispossessory warrants, distress warrants, peace warrants in which no defensive pleadings have been filed, and all justice of the peace court records and papers which by law have been placed in the possession of said clerk, and which, as aforesaid, in the opinion of the chief judge of said court have served their usefulness and are of no longer any value to anyone. Nothing in this act shall authorize the destruction or disposal of the minutes, writ books, the dockets or the indices or books of general entry, journals, or cash journals of the Civil Court, Richmond County, Georgia, and such records within the discretion of the chief judge of said court.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 37)
Sec. 5-172. - Severability of provisions of act.
If any section or provision of this act shall be held unconstitutional, or invalid, by any court of competent jurisdiction, the corresponding original acts hereby sought to be changed shall ipso facto and pro tanto stand reenacted and restored, and it shall not affect the validity and constitutionality of the remainder of this act.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2410, § 39)
Sec. 5-173. - Judge emeritus—Qualifications.
Any judge of the Civil and Magistrate Court of Richmond County, formerly known as the Municipal Court, City of Augusta, Richmond County, whether appointed or elected or both, who has at least ten years of service as judge of such court and who is still in service as judge of such court shall be eligible to become Judge Emeritus at his discretion at any time. Any such judge may elect to and become a Judge Emeritus of such court by presenting to the Board of Commissioners of Richmond County satisfactory evidence of eligibility. More than one judge may hold the position of Judge Emeritus simultaneously, provided that each such judge meets all requirements of holding said position.
(Ga. Laws 1971, p. 3872, § 1; Ga. Laws 1992, p. 5570, § 1)
Sec. 5-174. - Same—Filling unexpired term of judge emeritus.
When a judge becomes Judge Emeritus during his term of office, he shall notify in writing the Governor of his election, who shall fill such office by appointment for the unexpired term. If a judge elects to become Judge Emeritus upon the expiration of his then present term of office, the vacancy shall be filled by election as provided by law.
(Ga. Laws 1971, p. 3872, § 2; Ga. Laws 1992, p. 5570, § 1)
Sec. 5-175. - Same—Authority to hold court when called.
A Judge Emeritus of the Civil and Magistrate Court of Richmond County shall be empowered, qualified, and authorized to hold court for the State Court of Richmond County, whenever the Chief Judge of such court considers the condition of the docket congested to the extent that the services of an extra judge are needed; when said Chief Judge feels that the needs of justice will be best met by a Judge Emeritus presiding; or when said Chief Judge is disqualified by law. The Judge Emeritus may be called into service in the State Court of Richmond County by order passed by the Chief Judge of said court.
(Ga. Laws 1971, p. 3872, § 3; Ga. Laws 1992, p. 5570, § 1)
Sec. 5-176. - Same—Services by request.
By order of the Chief Judge of the Civil and Magistrate Court of Richmond County, a Judge Emeritus may be called into trial service in such court by way of request. If the Chief Judge is so incapacitated that he cannot issue such request order, then the Presiding Judge of such court shall be empowered to issue such order. If the Presiding Judge is so incapacitated that he cannot issue such request order, the Chief Judge of the Superior Court of Richmond County is empowered to issue an order requesting the services of a Judge Emeritus.
(Ga. Laws 1971, p. 3872, § 4; Ga. Laws 1992, p. 5570, § 1)
Sec. 5-177. - Same—Disqualifications.
A Judge Emeritus shall not hold any compensating position with the State of Georgia, the United States of America, Richmond County, or the City of Augusta or any agencies thereof, except upon taking a leave of absence as Judge Emeritus and waiving and relinquishing compensation during such leave of absence. A Judge Emeritus shall be disqualified from engaging in tile practice of law in the State Court of Richmond County and the Civil and Magistrate Court of Richmond County unless he takes a permanent leave of absence as Judge Emeritus and waives and relinquishes compensation during such permanent leave of absence. For the purpose of this section, the term compensating position shall not include receipt of any deferred compensation, pension, annuity, or retirement benefit which may accrue to the Judge Emeritus.
(Ga. Laws 1971, p. 3872, § 5; Ga. Laws 1992, p. 5570, § 1)
Sec. 5-178. - Same—Compensation.
A Judge Emeritus of the Civil and Magistrate Court of Richmond County shall receive as compensation for his position 40 percent of the total amount received for services as a regular judge computed on the 12-month period immediately preceding his declaration as Judge Emeritus based upon total remuneration received by such judge, including salary for services in the civil court as well as any salary supplement for services in the magistrate court and any other supplement authorized and paid by the Board of Commissioners of Richmond County. Additional compensation shall accrue to such Judge Emeritus at the rate of 1.333 percent of said salary per year for each year of service in addition to the first ten years, the total remuneration not to exceed 60 percent of his salary as a regular judge. Remuneration for a Judge Emeritus shall be paid out of the treasury of Richmond County. Any period of time served as a judge of the Civil and Magistrate Court of Richmond County prior to July 1, 1992, shall be deemed creditable service for purposes of computing term of service and salary pursuant to this act [article].
(Ga. Laws 1971, p. 3872, § 6; Ga. Laws 1992, p. 5570, § 1)
