ARTICLE 7. - OTHER POWERS AND DUTIES

Sec. 1-56. - Police power.
The General Assembly of the State of Georgia is hereby authorized to empower the governing authority of Richmond County to adopt ordinances or regulations for the governing and policing of said county for the purpose of protecting and preserving the health, safety, welfare and morals of the citizens thereof as it may deem advisable, not in conflict with the general laws of this state and of the United States, and for the implementation and enforcement of all duties and powers now or hereafter vested in said governing authority of Richmond County, and to provide penalties for violations of such ordinances.
(Ga. Laws 1968, p. 1506)
Sec. 1-57. - Power to adopt ordinances, etc.—Generally.
The governing authority of Richmond County is hereby granted the authority and power to adopt ordinances or regulations for the governing and policing of said county for the purpose of protecting and preserving the health, safety, welfare and morals of the citizens thereof as such governing authority may deem advisable. Such ordinances shall not be in conflict with the general laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States.
(Ga. Laws 1975, p. 4548, § 1)
Sec. 1-58. - Same—Particular ordinances enumerated.
The governing authority of Richmond County is hereby granted the authority and power to adopt such ordinances as provided for herein including, but not limited to, ordinances for fire prevention, fire safety and protection, minimum housing code and standards, animal control, zoning and zoning enforcement, abandoned and junk vehicles, subdivision regulations, erosion and sedimentation regulations and traffic regulations.
(Ga. Laws 1975, p. 4548, § 2)
Sec. 1-59. - Same—State court jurisdiction.
The State Court of the County of Richmond shall have the jurisdiction to hear and determine cases involving violations of the ordinances of Richmond County, and the jurisdiction of the court shall extend throughout the entire territorial limits of Richmond County, Georgia. Said ordinances shall be enforced in the State Court of the County of Richmond pursuant to the laws and acts creating said state court.
(Ga. Laws 1975, p. 4548, § 3)
Sec. 1-60. - Same—Penalties for ordinance violations.
The governing authority of Richmond County is hereby granted the authority and power to provide penalties for the violation of such ordinances, said penalties not exceeding a fine in the amount of $300.00, imprisonment in the county jail for a period not in excess of 60 days, to work in the work gang on the public streets, or on such public works as the county authorities may employ the work gang not to exceed 60 days, or by any one or more of such punishments.
(Ga. Laws 1975, p. 4548, § 4)
Editor's note— This local act conflicts with O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3 which authorizes a fine not to exceed $1000.00, or imprisonment not to exceed 12 months.
Sec. 1-61. - Provision for overtime use of courtrooms.
Should the operation of any court in Richmond County require that the offices and courtroom of such court remain open after customary office hours or on Saturday, or should the continued deliberations of a jury require the occupancy of quarters in the courthouse at such times, it shall be the duty of the Board of Commissioners of roads and revenues to make provision for the continued and uninterrupted use and occupancy of the quarters, offices and courtrooms for such courts and juries.
(Ga. Laws 1967, p. 3275, § 3)
Sec. 1-62. - Reserved.
Sec. 1-63. - Business taxes, licenses, rules and regulations.
The Board of Commissioners of Richmond County shall have the right and power to assess and collect license fees and taxes from all persons, firms and corporations maintaining a place or places of business in any area of Richmond County outside the incorporated limits of municipalities; and the right and power to license and regulate taxicabs and cars for hire in such unincorporated areas; and the right and power to classify businesses and business enterprises, and to assess different fees and taxes against different classes of business, excepting from the application of these provisions only those businesses which are subject to regulation by the state public service commission. The Board of Commissioners of Richmond County shall also have the right and power to license all businesses and business enterprises (which are not subject to regulation by the state public service commission) in any area of Richmond County outside the incorporated limits of municipalities, in the interest of the welfare of the citizens of Richmond County, and to prescribe rules and regulations concerning the same, and to provide that violation of any license regulation adopted by the Board of Commissioners of Richmond County or the failure to pay any license fee or tax prescribed for any business shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction thereof as prescribed by the general laws of the State of Georgia.
(Ga. Laws 1970, p. 1099)
Editor's note— Portions of this section conflict with O.C.G.A. Sec. 48-13-1 et seq. and are therefore repealed.
Sec. 1-64. - Reserved.
Sec. 1-65. - Traffic regulations—Generally.
The governing authority of Richmond County is hereby authorized to enact traffic ordinances and regulations to police the movement of vehicles and the flow of traffic in the unincorporated areas of Richmond County for the purpose of protecting and preserving the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens thereof as it may deem advisable, not in conflict with the general laws of this state or the United States.
(Ga. Laws 1969, p. 2657, § 1)
Sec. 1-66. - Same—Penalties.
The governing authority of said county is further authorized to prescribe penalties for the violation of such traffic ordinances and regulations, not in conflict with the general laws of this state or the United States.
(Ga. Laws 1969, p. 2657, § 2)
Sec. 1-67. - Advertisement, promotion of county.
The governing authority of Richmond County is authorized and permitted to appropriate property, moneys and services, any or all so as to advertise and promote the agricultural, industrial, historic, recreational and natural resources, facilities and assets of Richmond County and environs, to promote and encourage the location and expansion of industrial and commercial facilities therein and to attract tourists and conventions thereto, making such appropriations directly for such purposes through such agencies, public or private, as it may designate but conditioned that such appropriations shall not exceed $75,000.00 during any one calendar year.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 1698, § 1; Ga. Laws 1986, p. 4480, § 1)
Sec. 1-68. - Forest lands and mineral resources—Declaration of policy.
It is hereby determined and declared that the forest and timbered lands and minerals within the State of Georgia are among the greatest and most valuable resources and assets of the state, and, if properly managed and utilized within the state, they will constitute a constantly increasing source of income and employment.
It is further determined and declared that great areas of forest lands and mineral deposits are located within the County of Richmond and surrounding territory, which fact, together with the available transportation facilities of the area and other relevant factors, should induce industries which utilize forest and mineral products to locate in Richmond County.
It is also determined and declared that further inducement of industries which utilize forest and mineral products to locate, expand and operate in Richmond County will result in an enhancement in the value of the timbered and mineral lands of said county and surrounding territory and will greatly stimulate and increase employment in that area, and will be to the best interests of said County of Richmond and its citizens, to the best interests of the counties adjoining the County of Richmond and the citizens thereof, and the best interests of the State of Georgia as a whole.
(Ga. Laws 1957, p. 2412, §§ 2—4)
Sec. 1-69. - Same—Powers of Board of Commissioners.
In order to encourage, foster and further promote the utilization of Georgia forest and mineral products within the state, and particularly within the County of Richmond, any municipality acting by and through its governing body, in addition to the powers and authority which it may now have, shall have power:
(a)
To sell, convey, lease for any term, or otherwise transfer any of its real property, or any interest therein, needed or useful in the construction, expansion or operation of, or as a site for an industrial plant, system or facility which utilizes timber or other forest and mineral products; provided that the governing body of said municipality shall first, in its discretion, determine and declare by appropriate resolution that such property or interest is not necessary to the municipality for other public purposes; and provided that the consideration for such sale, conveyance, lease or transfer may be the construction, expansion or operation of such industrial plants, system or facility in Richmond County, and the consequential benefit to said municipality or its citizens and only such other consideration as said governing body may, in its discretion, deem proper and fitting, regardless of the actual worth or value of such property or interests;
(b)
To acquire by gift, purchase or the exercise of the right of eminent domain, to construct, to reconstruct, to improve, to better, to extend, to operate, and to maintain systems, plants, works, instrumentalities and properties used or useful in connection with the collection, treatment, aeration, or disposal of industrial wastes and effluents, sewerage and stormwater, or any of them; and as part of the service and operation of such systems plants, works, instrumentalities and properties, to expel, flow, direct or dump such wastes, effluents, sewerage and stormwater into any reservoir, settling ponds or aeration systems owned, maintained or operated for that purpose, and into any branches, creeks, rivers or streams located in whole or part in said county;
(c)
To make contracts with the owner or owners of existing future or proposed, industrial plants of the type which utilize timber or other forest products, or mineral products, whereby said municipality undertakes and obligates itself to collect, treat, aerate, or dispose of the sewerage or industrial wastes and effluents of such industrial plants for and during such period of years in such manner, at such costs, and for such fees, tolls, and charges as the governing body of said municipality may, in its discretion, deem proper and fit by such contract;
(d)
To advertise the advantages of locating such industrial plants within said county.
(Ga. Laws 1957, p. 2412, § 5)
Sec. 1-70. - Same—Exercise not to constitute nuisance.
It is determined and declared that the exercise of the powers conferred by section 1-69 hereof, or any of them, and the doing of the acts and things enumerated in said section 1-69, or any of them, shall be for the best interests of the public, and the exercise of any such powers, or the doing of any such acts or things by any municipality shall in no event constitute or be declared a public nuisance.
(1957 Ga. Laws 1957, p. 2412, § 6.)
Sec. 1-71. - Same—Definitions.
Whenever used in this act, unless different meaning clearly appears from the context, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)
Municipality. The County of Richmond, or any incorporated city or town located in Richmond County; and
(b)
Governing body. The board, commission, council or other local legislative body of such municipality.
(Ga. Laws 1957, p. 2412, § 1.)
Sec. 1-72. - Street lights.
The Board of Commissioners of Richmond County shall be authorized and empowered to establish districts for the purpose of erecting, establishing, maintaining and operating within Richmond County street lights and lamps for illumination of the public streets, roads, sidewalks and ways situated in said county. If at least fifty percent of the property owners within the proposed district shall assent thereto, the board shall be further authorized to levy, assess and collect a tax or special assessment against the property located in said districts for the aforesaid purposes or make service charges against all businesses and residents served by said facilities as the Board of Commissioners shall deem necessary for the services rendered, all without regard to uniformity. Such tax assessments shall be collected by the tax commissioner of said county and may be enforced by the issuance of fi. fa.'s or executions for said charges in the same manner and with the same lien dignity and priority as fi. fa.'s or executions are issued for state and county taxes. Said board shall also have authority to compel compliance with reasonable rules and regulations necessary for said services.
(Ga. Laws 1970, p. 1097.)
Sec. 1-73. - Urban redevelopment.
All powers, privileges, duties or immunities now or heretofore granted to municipalities by the urban redevelopment law, and all acts amendatory thereof, are hereby granted to and conferred upon every county of this state having a population of 150,000 and not more than 500,000 according to the 1960 United States Census or any future such census.
(Ga. Laws 1969, p. 807.)
Sec. 1-74. - Recreational program.
The Board of Commissioners of Richmond County shall establish and maintain a program of recreation for the benefit of all citizens of Richmond County. In establishing and carrying out said program, the commissioners shall establish and locate recreational facilities throughout the county so that such programs shall be available to all citizens of Richmond County.
(Ga. Laws 1970, p. 3325.)
Sec. 1-75. - Creation of program to regulate and control access points and utility excavations on county roads.
The Board of Commissioners of Richmond County shall establish a program to regulate and control access points and utility excavations on all county roads, and said board shall have the authority to adopt reasonable regulations in relation to the subject matter of this section in order to carry out the powers, duties and responsibilities imposed upon them by the provisions of this section.
(Ga. Laws 1974, p. 3562, § 1; Ga. Laws, 1975, p. 3857, § 1.)
Sec. 1-76. - Animal control—Program established.
The commissioners of Richmond County shall establish a program of animal control to prevent stray animals from running at large throughout the county. In order to carry out said program, the Board of Commissioners of Richmond County shall establish and maintain appropriate facilities for the collection and housing of impounded stray animals from throughout Richmond County. The commissioners of Richmond County shall have the authority to adopt reasonable resolutions in relation to the subject matter of this section in order to carry out the powers, duties and responsibilities imposed upon them by the provisions of this section.
(Ga. Laws 1970, p. 3327)
Sec. 1-77. - Same—Penalty.
Any person, firm, partnership or corporation violating any rule or regulation established by the Board of Commissioners under the authority of this law for the protection of the general public in the control of animals, not in conflict with the general laws of this state or the United States, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 3197)
Sec. 1-78. - Special assessments for streets, sidewalks, water and sewer mains.
The general assembly may grant to the governing authority of Richmond County the right to construct or repair streets and sidewalks and to lay curbing, water and sewer mains and to assess the costs thereof pro rata against the abutting property owners; provided, the owners of 75 percent of the property abutting such improvements shall consent thereto and to provide for the issuance and enforcement of execution for the collection of such assessments and for the creation of liens thereby against such abutting property. Provided, however, that any act of the general assembly adopted pursuant hereto shall restrict the authority to those areas of said county where the property has been subdivided into lots having 350 feet of street frontage or less.
(Ga. Laws 1955, p. 460)
Sec. 1-79. - Revenue anticipation bonds for incinerator, garbage and refuse facilities.
Anything in this Constitution to the contrary notwithstanding, Richmond County, Georgia, is hereby authorized to acquire, construct, add to, improve, equip, maintain and operate incinerator, garbage and refuse facilities of every kind and character and to make and to prescribe and revise rates and to collect fees, tolls and charges for the use thereof and to lease all or any part thereof and to contract with other political subdivisions or public corporations and private corporations and persons for the use thereof and to accomplish the foregoing is hereby authorized to issue its revenue bonds or obligations to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of acquiring, constructing, adding to, improving and equipping incinerator, garbage and refuse facilities, including, but not limited to, all buildings, structures and equipment useful or desirable in connection therewith, acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, and paying all expenses incident thereto. Any such revenue bonds authorized to be issued hereunder shall be issued and validated pursuant to the provisions of the Revenue Bond Law (Georgia Laws 1957, page 36 et seq.), amending the law formerly known as the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937 (Ga. Laws 1937, page 761 et seq.), as amended, and when so validated thereunder shall be forever incontestable and conclusive in every respect.
(Ga. Laws 1978, p. 2355, § 1; Ga. Laws 1986, p. 4483, § 1)
Sec. 1-80. - Purchase of goods, materials, etc.—Without bid or advertisement—Cost not in excess of ten thousand five hundred dollars.
The Augusta-Richmond County Commission is herey [hereby] authorized to purchase any goods, materials or supplies of any nature, used by Richmond County in its government affairs, without bid and legal advertisement, by obtaining at least three (3) quotations in writing, or by telephone, which shall be reduced to writing, entered on the minutes of said Commission and retained for a period of at least two yeras [years], when the cost of said goods, materials or supplies is between $1,500.00 and $10,000.00.
(Ga. Laws 1975, p. 4334, § 1; Ga. Laws 1998, p. 4722, § 1; Ord. No. 5934 ; Ord. No. 6934 )
Sec. 1-81. - Same—Same—Cost between fifteen hundred dollars and five thousand dollars.
The Board of Commissioners of Richmond County, Georgia, is hereby authorized to purchase any goods, materials or supplies of any nature used by Richmond County in any of its governmental affairs, without bid and legal advertisement, by obtaining at least three written quotations entered on the minutes of said board, and retained for a period of at least two years, when the cost of said goods, materials or supplies is between $500.00 and $5,000.00.
(Ga. Laws 1975, p. 4334, § 2; Ord. No. 93-1; Ga. Laws 1994, p. 5160; Ord. No. 5934 ; Ga. Laws 1998, p. ___).
Sec. 1-82. - Same—Same—When emergency exists.
In the event the Board of Commissioners of Richmond County determines, at an open meeting of which minutes are recorded, that an emergency exists and there is an immediate need for goods, materials or supplies to relieve said emergency, the Board of Commissioners shall be allowed to approve purchases without bids in the event the board has determined an emergency exists, but all such declarations of emergency shall be in strict accordance with applicable state law defining emergency.
(Ga. Laws 1975, p. 4334, § 4)
Sec. 1-83. - Same—Advertisement for bids.
With the exceptions provided in this section and sections 1-80, 1-81, 1-82, 1-84, and 1-85, the Board of Commissioners of Richmond County, Georgia, shall, in all other instances before purchasing any goods, materials or supplies to be used by Richmond County, or entering into any lease of equipment to be used by Richmond County, advertise for bids once a day for three days within a 10-day period in the legal gazette for Richmond County.
(Ga. Laws 1975, p. 4334, § 4)
Sec. 1-84. - Same—Negotiation for purchase when no bids received.
In the event the Board of Commissioners of Richmond County receives no bids, the Board of Commissioners of Richmond County, Georgia, is hereby authorized to negotiate for the purchase of the goods, materials or supplies needed for the operation of its governmental affairs; provided, however, that any such negotiated bid shall be read one time in regular meeting held at least ten days prior to the acceptance or approval of such negotiated bid by the Board of Commissioners of Richmond County.
(Ga. Laws 1975, p. 4334, § 5.)
Sec. 1-85. - Same—Used equipment.
The Board of Commissioners of Richmond County is authorized to purchase used equipment for the operation of its governmental affairs based on three written appraisals from recognized dealers in the subject equipment. Said written appraisals together with the acceptance and approval shall be entered on the regular minutes of the Board of Commissioners of Richmond County at the time said board considers the purchase of any used equipment; provided, however, no such purchase shall be consummated until after the written appraisal proposed to be adopted has been read one time in regular meeting held at least ten days prior to the consummation of said purchase.
(Ga. Laws 1975, p. 4334, § 6.)
Sec. 1-86. - Authority of board over employees of other elected county officials; limitations.
The governing authority of Richmond County, shall have the authority to set the table of organization and compensation of the sheriff's department, deputy sheriffs and clerks of the elected officials of Richmond County, and to provide compensation and increases in compensation for said employees, deputy sheriffs and clerks under the elected officials of Richmond County, provided however, that the number of employees of the sheriff's department, deputy sheriffs and clerks of the elected officials of Richmond County, shall be fixed by the general assembly. Said governing authority shall provide compensation and increases in compensation on a uniform basis in relation to the classification and wage and salary structure for employees under the governing authority of Richmond County.
(Ga. Laws 1977, p. 3701, § 1.)
Sec. 1-87. - Authority of board to provide retirement, insurance and other benefits to employees of other elected county officials.
The governing authority of Richmond County shall have the authority to establish and maintain retirement or pension systems, insurance, workmen's compensation and hospitalization benefits for employees under the elected officials of Richmond County.
(Ga. Laws 1977, p. 3701, § 2)
