ARTICLE 2. - TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES

Sec. 3-5-6. - Authority to install traffic-control devices.
The Augusta-Richmond County Traffic Engineer shall place and maintain official traffic control devices when and as required under this chapter or the traffic ordinances of Augusta-Richmond County to make effective the provisions of such ordinances, and may place and maintain such additional official traffic-control devices as he may deem necessary to regulate, warn or guide traffic under this chapter or the traffic ordinances of Augusta-Richmond County or the state motor vehicle code.
Sec. 3-5-7. - Regulations and specifications for traffic-control devices.
All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the regulations and specifications approved by the Department of transportation. All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout Augusta-Richmond County. All traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of State law or this chapter shall be official traffic-control devices.
Sec. 3-5-8. - Obedience to official traffic-control devices.
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a deputy Sheriff, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle.
Sec. 3-5-9. - When official traffic-control devices required for enforcement.
No provision of this chapter for which official traffic-control devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-control devices are required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or in place.
Sec. 3-5-10. - Official traffic-control device; presumption of legality.
(a)
Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in a position approximately conforming to the requirements of this chapter, such device shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful authority unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
(b)
Any official traffic-control device placed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this chapter unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
Sec. 3-5-11. - Augusta-Richmond County Traffic Engineer to designate crosswalks and establish safety zones.
The Augusta-Richmond County Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized:
(a)
To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in his opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at such other places as he may deem necessary;
(b)
To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places as he may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
Sec. 3-5-12. - Traffic lanes.
The Augusta-Richmond County Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to mark traffic lanes upon the roadway of any street or highway where alignment of traffic is necessary.
Sec. 3-5-13. - Stop signs and yield signs; failure to stop for stop sign; ran stop sign; failure to slow down or stop for yield sign.
(a)
Except when directed to proceed by a deputy Sheriff, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or, if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time when such driver is moving across or within the intersection of junction of roadways.
(b)
The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and, if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or, if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After slowing or stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways. If such a driver is involved in a collision with a vehicle in the intersection after driving past a yield sign without stopping, such collision shall be deemed prima-facie evidence of his failure to yield the right-of-way.
Sec. 3-5-14. - Avoiding a traffic sign, signal or light.
Except when directed to proceed by a deputy Sheriff, no driver of a vehicle shall purposely leave the road or highway to avoid having to stop, slow or yield for a traffic sign, signal or light.
Sec. 3-5-15. - Reserved.
