ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS

Section 5.10. - Applicability of general law.
All elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with the Georgia Municipal Election Code, as now or hereafter amended.
Editor's note— The Georgia Municipal Elections Code, O.C.G.A. §§ 21-3-1 to 21-3-480, was repealed effective January 1, 1999. Municipal elections are now controlled by the general election law set forth in O.C.G.A. ch. 21-2.
Section 5.11. - Regular elections; time for holding.
modified
(a)
The mayor and council members from Wards 2 and 4 and At-Large Post 2 elected in December 1989 whose terms normally expire in January shall remain in office until December 31, 1991, and until their successors are elected and qualified. On the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November 1991 and biennially thereafter, the successors to such mayor and three council members shall be elected and shall serve for terms of office of two years and until their successors are elected and qualified and shall take office on the first day of January following their election.
(b)
The council members from Wards 1 and 3 and At-Large Post 1 who are to be elected in November 1990 and whose terms normally expire in January shall remain in office until December 31, 1992, and until their successors are elected and qualified. On the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November 1992 and biennially thereafter, the successors to such three council members shall be elected and shall serve for terms of office of two years and until their successors are elected and qualified and shall take office on the first day of January following their election.
(c)
This section is enacted pursuant to the authority provided for in O.C.G.A. § 21-3-64(c).
(d)
For purposes of electing members of the city council, and beginning with the municipal elections to be held in November 2023, the City of Austell is divided into four (4) council wards as set forth in the description attached hereto and made a part of this Charter and further identified as "Plan: Austell Plan2; Plan Type: Local; Date: May 1, 2023." The council shall consist of six (6) council members. One (1) council member shall be elected from each ward (totaling four (4) council members) and there shall be two (2) council members elected as At-Large council members, one denoted at At-Large Post 1 council member and the other denoted as At-Large Post 2 council member. The At-Large council members shall be elected from all four wards.
(1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 813), § 1; Ord. No. 2023-05-01 , § 1, 5-1-2023)
Editor's note— O.C.G.A. § 21-3-64 was repealed effective January 1, 1999.
Section 5.12. - Special elections; vacancies.
(a)
In the event that the office of a council member shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the remaining council members shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such office, except as hereinafter provided. The call for the special election shall be no later than 45 days from the occurrence of the vacancy. However, if the call for such an election would fall within six months of the expiration of the term of that office, the city council or those remaining members shall by majority vote appoint a successor for the remainder of the term of that office who shall serve until his successor is duly elected and qualified, and consequently, there shall be no special election called. In all other respects, the special election shall be held and conducted in accordance with O.C.G.A. ch. 21-3.
(b)
In the event that the office of the mayor shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the city council shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such office, except as hereinafter provided. The call for the special election shall be no later than 45 days from the occurrence of the vacancy. However, if the call for such an election would fall within six months of the expiration of the term of that office, the mayor pro tempore shall serve as acting mayor until the expiration of the term and there shall be no special election called, the council shall function with the remaining five voting members, and the acting mayor shall not vote except to break a tie. In such an instance, the council seat of the mayor pro tempore shall not be deemed vacant, unless and until the mayor pro tempore qualifies to run for the office of mayor at the next regular city election, in which case his council seat shall be deemed vacant upon such qualifications, but he shall continue to serve as acting mayor until his successor is duly elected and installed in office. In the event the mayor pro tempore qualifies to run for the office of mayor and his council seat is deemed vacant, the remaining council members may, but need not, appoint a successor to fill the unexpired term of that office if the remaining term is less than six months, and in any event the election to fill such office shall be held at the upcoming regular city election.
Editor's note— O.C.G.A. ch. 21-3 was repealed effective January 1, 1999.
Section 5.13. - Nonpartisan elections.
Political parties shall not conduct primaries for city offices and all names of candidates for city offices shall be listed without party labels.
Section 5.14. - Election by majority; run-off elections.
Council members running for a ward position shall be elected by a majority of the valid votes cast for that office by electors residing in that ward only. Council members running for an at-large position and the mayor shall be elected by a majority of the valid votes cast for such office by electors residing in the entire city. If no person receives a majority in his respective race, a run-off election shall be held between the two candidates receiving the highest and next highest number of votes cast for such office.
Section 5.15. - City council wards; adjustment of wards.
(a)
There shall be four city council wards which shall initially be delineated as set forth on the map filed in the office of the city clerk, and on a copy filed with the secretary of state, marked "Official City Map of the City of Austell"; provided, however, that if the United States Justice Department requires adjustment of such ward boundaries to comply with federal law, the city council may revise such ward boundaries to comply with federal law and such home rule amendment shall be effective immediately and shall apply to the next city election.
(b)
Within one year of the official publishing of the United States decennial census, the city council shall adopt an ordinance redistricting the city council wards to comply with the following specifications:
(1)
Each ward shall be formed of compact, contiguous territory, and its boundary lines shall follow the center lines of streets or other well-defined boundaries.
(2)
Each ward shall contain as nearly as possible the same number of people, with the largest ward not differing in population by more than ten percent of the number of people in the smallest ward.
(3)
The ordinance shall include a map and description of the wards.
(c)
The new city council wards and boundaries as of the date of enactment, or as of the date of revision by the city council to comply with federal law, shall supersede previous city council wards and boundaries for the purposes of the next regular city election, including qualification for office. The new wards and boundaries established pursuant to subsection (b) above shall supersede previous wards and boundaries for all other purposes as of the date on which all council members elected at the next regular city election take office.
[Sections 5.16, 5.17. - Reserved.]
Section 5.18. - Grounds for removal.
The mayor, council members, council committee chairpersons or members, or appointed persons filling nonemployee positions provided for in this charter shall be removed from office only for any one or more of the following causes:
(1)
Incompetence, misfeasance, or malfeasance in office;
(2)
Conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
(3)
Failure at any time to possess any of the qualifications of office as provided by this charter or by law;
(4)
Knowingly violating any express prohibition of this charter;
(5)
Abandonment of office or neglect to perform the duties thereof; or
(6)
Failure for any other cause to perform the duties of office as required by this charter or by state law.
(1993 Ga. Laws (SB 284), § 12; Ord. of 7-1-1996, § 2)
Section 5.19. - Procedure for removal.
Removal of an above-described officer may be accomplished by one of the following methods:
(1)
By the vote of four council members after an investigative hearing. In the event any official is sought to be removed by the action of the city council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the grounds for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten days after the service of such written notice. Any official sought to be removed from office as herein provided shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the city council to the superior court of Cobb County, Georgia. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals of the superior court from the probate court.
(2)
By information filed in the superior court of Cobb County, Georgia, as provided by state law.
(3)
If the mayor or a council member shall be indicted for a felony, such official shall be automatically suspended from office with pay until such indictment be resolved.
