ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Construction of terms; definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Business means any business, trade, occupation, profession, avocation, or calling of any kind for gain or profit, directly or indirectly, except those occupations licensed by the state or some agency thereof to the exclusion of the city.
Dominant line means the type of business, within a multiple-line business, that the greatest amount of income is derived from.
Engaged in business means when a person performs any act of selling any goods or service or solicits business or offers goods or service for sale for payment in an attempt to make a profit, including the sales or services of the character as made by a wholesaler or retailer or involved in any of the functions performed as a manufacturer, either as an owner, operator, or agent in any business, trade, profession, or occupation within this city; provided, however, the term "engaged in business" shall exclude activities of organizations and entities which are:
(1)
Nonprofit, charitable organizations; and
(2)
The activities of which are not in competition with businesses otherwise required to obtain business licenses. Furthermore, the term "engaged in business" shall not include the following activities: nonprofit organization suppers and bake sales, annual church bazaars, amateur youth athletic club sales, and amateur athletic booster club sales.
Itinerant merchants, flea market vendors and other retailers without permanent places of business means:
(1)
All itinerant merchants, flea market vendors and other retailers without permanent places of business are exercising the same taxable privilege as other merchants when selling at retail in this city. For the exercise of this privilege, a tax is levied.
(2)
For the purpose of this rule, the term "itinerant merchant" means any person who solicits, engages in, transacts or offers for sale any new or used merchandise either in one location or while traveling from place to place in the city. The term "itinerant merchant" is further defined as any person who does not intend to become or who does not become a permanent merchant at any one location and who for the purpose of transacting such business, rents, hires, leases, occupies or uses any building, structure, lot, tract, motor vehicle, sample case, or display case.
License means a certificate issued by the city authorizing a person to engage in a business, and a certificate issued by the city evidencing payment of a professional occupation tax.
Location of office shall not include a temporary work site which serves a single customer or project.
Manufacturer means a person who, either directly or by contracting with others for the necessary labor or mechanical services, manufactures for sale or commercial use any articles, substances or commodities; including all the activities of a commercial nature wherein labor or skill is applied by hand or machinery, to materials so that as a result thereof a new, different, or useful article of tangible personal property or substance of trade or commerce is produced; and including the production or fabrication of specially or custom-made articles; and including the making, fabricating, processing, refining, mixing, slaughtering, packing, aging, curing, preserving, canning and preparing and freezing of fresh foods, fruits, vegetables, and meats.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations, or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession, or business for revenue-raising purposes.
Person means and includes sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, nonprofits, or any other form of business organization.
Practitioner of profession or occupation means one who by state law requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation. The term "practitioner of profession or occupation" shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
Professional occupation means an occupation licensed by the state or some agency thereof to the exclusion of the city.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees, or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession, or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the city. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee. Development impact fees as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2(8) or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
Retailer means a person who sells to the consumer or any other person for any purpose other than for resale, any article or substance in the form of tangible personal property.
Service means the accommodating or performing a duty or work by a person utilizing time or talents for direct or indirect remuneration.
Wholesaler means a person who sells to jobbers or to another person other than the consumer anything in the form of tangible personal property.
(Code 1976, §§ 3-2041, 7-1001; Code 1985, § 6-1; Ord. of 3-7-1988; Ord. of 9-11-1989; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1)
Sec. 10-2. - Occupation tax required; registration.
(a)
Each person engaged in any business, trade, profession, or occupation in the city, whether with a location in the city or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state exerting substantial efforts within the city pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for the business, trade, profession, or occupation. The record of such payment and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the city. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the city, such business tax registration shall be shown to the city finance director or the director's designee or to any police officer of the city, upon request.
(b)
Each such registration shall be for the calendar year in which the registration was obtained unless otherwise specifically provided. The occupation tax, administrative or regulatory fee shall be paid within 90 days of January 1 or, with regard to a new business, the date upon which beginning to conduct business within the city. Each business which fails to timely pay the occupation tax or regulatory fees shall incur a penalty of $50.00. The penalties and interest shall be in addition to all other revocation or rights of the city to revoke business licenses or other licenses or permits granted by the city as well as other penalties, civil and criminal provided for in the Charter and this Code. The penalties and taxes may be collected by the remedies provided herein for collection of the occupation tax, and any penalties shall have the same lien and priority as the occupation tax to which the penalty is applied.
(c)
Any business which commences following July 1 in any year shall pay a tax for that year of only 50 percent of the tax which would be payable for the full year. There shall be no such reduction in regularity or administrative fee.
(d)
The registration herein provided for shall be issued by the community affairs department, and if any person whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after the occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the city, any of the kind of business, trade, profession, or occupation without having first obtained the registration, such offender shall be subject to the penalties provided thereof.
(Code 1976, § 3-2044; Code 1985, § 6-2; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1; Ord. of 12-4-1995, § A; Ord. of 10-5-1998, § 1)
Sec. 10-3. - License or certificate required.
(a)
Every business in the city required to register under section 10-2 is required to have a business license from the city for the privilege of engaging in a business within the corporate limits of the city if such license is not prohibited by the state.
(b)
Every occupation licensed by the state to the exclusion of the city is required to have a certificate issued by the city evidencing payment of its occupation tax.
(Code 1976, § 7-1002; Code 1985, § 6-3; Ord. of 10-6-1980)
Sec. 10-4. - Occupation tax levied; restrictions.
(a)
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the corporate limits of the city or upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the state, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, based upon the number of employees of the business or practitioner. The tax rate determined by number of employees for each business, trade, profession, or occupation is as follows and will be developed and updated from time to time by the finance department of the city:
EXPAND
Employees Tax Liability
1—9 $125.00
10—19 $175.00
20—49 $200.00
50 or more $350.00
  (b)
No business or practitioner shall be required to pay more than one occupation tax for each of its locations.
(c)
No occupation tax shall be required for those real estate brokers, real estate agents, or real estate companies whose offices are located outside the jurisdiction and who sell property inside the jurisdiction.
(d)
Notwithstanding the tax schedule set forth in subsection (a) of this section, the occupational tax payable by each insurance company or agency with a business location in the city shall be as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.
(Code 1976, § 3-2043; Code 1985, § 6-5; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1; Ord. of 2-1-1999, § 1)
Sec. 10-5. - License application.
(a)
Every person required to procure a license under the provisions of this Code shall submit an application for such license to the community affairs department, which application shall conform to the requirements of this section in addition to any other provisions of this Code. Unless otherwise provided in this Code, each application shall be a written statement upon forms provided by the community affairs department and submitted before March 1 of each year or ten days prior to opening a new business. Each application shall contain the following information:
(1)
Name and home address of the applicant if an individual, or home office address if a corporation or partnership.
(2)
Place where the proposed business is to be located and, if the property is leased, a copy of the lease contract or agreement and any related documents.
(3)
Kinds of businesses to be carried on and the kinds of goods or services to be offered.
(4)
Names and home addresses of the partners, if a partnership.
(5)
Names and home addresses of the officers and directors, if a corporation.
(6)
Complete record of all arrests and convictions against the applicant and every partner, officer or director of the applicant for violations of any laws and ordinances of the city, state or federal government other than minor traffic violations.
(7)
A schedule listing the number of all employees who are or were employed during the preceding 12-month period, including the status of each as full- or part-time. (The term "employee" means any worker, full- or part-time, supervised by the employer and for whom the employer withholds FICA, federal income tax or state income tax or to whom an IRS form W-2 is issued by the employer. For each such employee the business must provide the employee's position, typical hours worked per week and dates of employment.)
(8)
A statement, under oath, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 50-36-1 et seq., providing that the applicant is a United States citizen or legal permanent resident 18 years of age or older or that the applicant is a qualified alien or nonimmigrant under federal law and rules, 18 years of age or older, lawfully present in the United States and provide the applicant's alien number issued by the Department of Homeland Security or other federal immigration agency.
(9)
Such additional information as the community affairs department or city may find reasonably necessary to the fair administration of this chapter.
(b)
Each application shall be sworn to by the applicant if an individual, or by a partner if a partnership, or by an officer if a corporation.
(c)
All information furnished or secured under the authority of this section, except as otherwise by state law provided, shall be kept in strict confidence by the community affairs department, shall not be subject to public inspection, and shall be utilized solely by the officers of the city responsible for administering the provisions of this chapter.
(d)
False or incomplete statements on any application for a license shall be grounds for immediate revocation of such license and for the imposition of other penalties as herein provided.
(Code 1976, § 7-1003; Code 1985, § 6-6; Ord. of 10-5-1981; Ord. of 9-4-1987; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1; Ord. of 12-4-1995, § E; Ord. of 2-1-2010)
Sec. 10-6. - Procedure for issuance of license.
(a)
If any provision of this chapter provides for the review of an application for a license by a city officer designated therein, the community affairs department shall forward a copy of the application to such officer. The officer charged with the duty of reviewing the application shall make a recommendation thereon, favorable or otherwise, and shall return such recommendation to the community affairs department after receiving a copy of the application.
(b)
Upon the receipt of the recommendation of the reviewing officer as hereinabove provided, or upon the receipt of the application if no reviewing officer is designated, the community affairs department shall forward such recommendation and application to the city for consideration and action at its next regular scheduled public meeting.
(c)
No license shall be issued to any applicant whose place of business is not in full compliance with all minimum standard construction codes adopted by the city.
(d)
Upon the express approval of the city, the community affairs department shall issue a business license to the applicant therefor, which license shall state the nature of the business authorized and bear the date of issuance and the signatures of the mayor and community affairs department.
(e)
The granting of a business license under the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a privilege only, and nothing herein contained shall be construed as granting any person whose business is subject to municipal regulation any legal right to engage in such business.
(Code 1976, § 7-1004; Code 1985, § 6-7)
Sec. 10-7. - When tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such occupation tax shall be for the calendar year 1995 and succeeding calendar years thereafter unless otherwise specifically provided. The registration and occupation tax shall be payable January 1 of each year and shall, if not paid by March 1 of each year, be subject to penalties for delinquency as prescribed in this chapter. On any new profession, trade, or calling begun in the city the registration and tax shall be delinquent if not obtained immediately upon beginning business and a penalty imposed.
(b)
The tax registration herein provided for shall be issued by the community affairs department and if any person whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after the registration or occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the city, any of the kind of profession, trade, or calling subject to this chapter without having first obtained the registration, such offender shall, upon conviction by the judge of the municipal court, be punished by a fine not to exceed one-half of the unpaid occupation tax for each year the tax is not paid. In addition, the marshal may proceed to collect in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
(Code 1976, § 3-2045; Code 1985, § 6-8; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1)
Sec. 10-8. - Prorating of tax.
When any person shall commence any business after the beginning of the business tax year, the tax levied by this chapter may be prorated such that the full scheduled rate of tax shall be due for businesses beginning operations before June 1 and one-half of the scheduled rate shall be due for businesses beginning operations on June 1 or later.
(Code 1976, § 3-2050; Code 1985, § 6-9)
Sec. 10-9. - Issuance of license or certificate.
Upon the payment of the taxes assessed in this chapter, it shall be the duty of the community affairs department to issue to each person a business license or occupational tax certificate.
(Code 1976, § 3-2046; Code 1985, § 6-10)
Sec. 10-10. - License or certificate to be displayed.
All persons shall exhibit and display the license or certificate in some conspicuous place in their business establishment. Any transient or nonresident person doing business within the city shall carry such receipt and certificate either upon the person or on any vehicle or other conveyance which is used in such business, and such person shall exhibit the same to any authorized enforcement officer of the city when requested to do so.
(Code 1976, § 3-2047; Code 1985, § 6-11)
Sec. 10-11. - Evidence of state registration required if applicable; state registration to be displayed.
(a)
Each person who is licensed by the secretary of state pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 43 shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the city registration may be issued.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Code 1976, § 7-1005; Code 1985, § 6-12; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1)
Sec. 10-12. - Transfer of license.
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, a license may not be transferred to another person, new owner, or location except as follows:
(1)
If the ownership and business type remain the same and only the address or business name has changed then upon a ten day notice to the community affairs department and compliance with all building and zoning requirements, the change shall be allowed;
(2)
Any other change may be allowed at the discretion of the city on a case by case basis.
(Code 1976, § 7-1008; Code 1985, § 6-13)
Sec. 10-13. - Change of address.
Any person moving from one location to another shall notify the community affairs department of such move and of the new address in writing, no later than ten days after moving. The same tax receipt and certificate will be valid at the new location.
(Code 1976, § 3-2048; Code 1985, § 6-14)
Sec. 10-14. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency, or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of an the city business registration, show evidence that such requirements have been met.
(Code 1976, § 7-1010; Code 1985, § 6-15; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1)
Sec. 10-15. - Termination and renewal of licenses.
All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the year when no provision to the contrary is made. Unless otherwise provided, each licensee shall make a written application for renewal on forms supplied by the community affairs department no later than March 1 of each year, which application shall contain substantially the same information as the initial application.
(Code 1976, § 7-1006; Code 1985, § 6-16)
Sec. 10-16. - Delinquency penalties.
Any person failing to register on or before March 1 or, in the case of a new business, within ten days of commencing business, or failing to pay the tax due under the terms of this chapter by the due date, shall be subject to a penalty of $50.00.
(Code 1976, § 3-2053; Code 1985, § 6-17)
Sec. 10-17. - Revocation, suspension.
(a)
By the mayor. Whenever a person doing business under a city license shall violate any law or ordinance of the United States or of the state or of the city, in pursuance of that business, or when it shall be proven before the mayor that the health, morals, interest and convenience of the public demand the revocation of that license, the mayor shall suspend that license and report such to the next regular meeting of the city for its ratification or rejection. Should the action of the mayor be sustained by the city, the license shall be revoked, for at least one year, otherwise it shall be restored and remain in full force.
(b)
By the city generally. The city, after affording the licensee notice of the charges and opportunity to be heard with respect to any revocation proceedings, may, if it finds this Code to have been violated by the licensee, licensee's agent, or employee, revoke such license in its entirety, suspend the same for a specified period of time, place the licensee on probation, or place other conditions thereon as the city may deem necessary.
(Code 1976, §§ 7-1007, 7-1011; Code 1985, §§ 6-18, 6-19)
Sec. 10-18. - Issuance of executions.
The community affairs department shall issue executions for the collection of all outstanding and unpaid taxes imposed and assessed by this chapter. Such executions shall be collected in the manner provided by law for the collection of other taxes due to the city.
(Code 1976, § 3-2052; Code 1985, § 6-20)
Sec. 10-19. - Subpoena and arrest powers or city finance department.
(a)
The city finance department and its duly designated officer and inspectors or its successors shall be classified as business inspectors with full subpoena powers in conjunction with any violation pertaining to this chapter.
(b)
In any case the finance department of the city, through its officers, agents, employees, or representatives, may inspect the books of the business for which the returns are made. The city representative shall have the right to inspect the books or records for the business of which the return was made in the city, and upon demand of the city representative such books or records shall be submitted for inspection by the city within 30 days. Failure of submission of such books or records within 30 days shall be grounds for revocation of the tax registration currently existing to do business in the city. Adequate records shall be kept in the city, for examination by the city representative at that officer's discretion. If, after examination of the books or records, it is determined that a deficiency occurs as a result of underreporting, a penalty will be assessed for the period delinquent.
(c)
Upon the failure of any business to pay the occupation tax or any part thereof before it becomes delinquent, or upon failure to make any of the returns within the time required herein, or upon failure to make a true return, or upon failure to amend a return to set forth the truth, or upon failure to permit inspection of its books as above provided, any business tax registration granted by the city under this chapter permitting the owner of the business to do business for the current year shall be, ipso facto, revoked. No new business tax registration shall be granted by the city for the operation of a business for which any part of the occupation tax herein provided for is at that time unpaid, or to an individual, firm, or corporation who has failed to submit adequate records as requested by the city representative in accordance with provisions found in subsection (b) of this section. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax.
(Code 1976, §§ 3-2054, 7-1012; Code 1985, § 6-21; Ord. of 10-5-1981; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1; Ord. of 1-6-1997, § XIII)
Sec. 10-20. - Financial institutions.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, the city has levied for each year, an annual business license tax upon state and national banking associations, federal savings and loan associations and state building and loan associations at the rate of 0.025 percent of the gross receipts of the institutions as defined in the O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, as now or hereafter amended. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, the minimum amount of business license tax due from any depository financial institution pursuant to this section shall be $1,000.00 per year.
(b)
Each depository financial institution within the city shall file a return of its gross receipts with the city on March 1 each year following the year in which such gross receipts were measured. The returns shall be in the manner and in the form prescribed by the commissioner of the department of banking and shall be based upon the allocation method set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(d). The tax levied pursuant to this chapter shall be assessed and collected based upon the information provided in the return.
(c)
The due date of taxes levied by this section shall be April 1 of each year.
(Code 1985, § 6-23; Ord. of 8-1-1983, §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 10-21. - Paying occupation tax of business with no location in the state.
Registration and assessment of an occupation tax is hereby imposed on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the state if the business's largest dollar volume of business in the state is in the city and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the jurisdiction of the city for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Code 1985, § 6-24; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1)
Sec. 10-22. - Allocation of employees of business with multiple intrastate or interstate locations.
For those businesses that have multiple locations inside and outside of the city, only those employees working within the city shall be counted for the purpose of determining the occupation tax liability.
(Code 1985, § 6-25; Ord. of 6-3-1991; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1)
Sec. 10-23. - Each line of business to be identified on business registration.
The business registration of each business operated in the city shall identify the dominant line of business that the business conducts.
(Code 1985, § 6-26; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1)
Sec. 10-24. - More than one place or line of business.
Where a business is operated at more than one place or where the business includes more than one line, the business shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for each location and line and pay an occupation tax in accordance with the prevailing taxing method and tax rate for each location and line.
(Code 1985, § 6-27; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1)
Sec. 10-25. - Practitioners of professions.
Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1) through (18) shall pay an occupation tax based on number of employees as set forth in section 10-4.
(Code 1985, § 6-28; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1)
Sec. 10-26. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for a government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, or a city or county of the state, or instrumentalities of the United States, the state, or a city or county of the state shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Code 1985, § 6-29; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1)
Sec. 10-27. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The occupation tax levied herein is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade, or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5 through 48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general or local law and ordinance.
(Code 1985, § 6-29.1; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1)
Sec. 10-28. - Exemption on grounds that business is operated for charitable purpose.
No business on which a business registration or occupation tax is levied by this chapter shall be exempt from the registration or tax on the grounds that such business is operated for a charitable purpose, unless 50 percent or more of the entire proceeds from the business are devoted to such purpose.
(Code 1985, § 6-29.2; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1)
Sec. 10-29. - Liability of officers and agents; registration required; failure to obtain.
All persons subject to the occupation tax levy pursuant to this chapter shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for the business as described in this article, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a registration. Every person commencing business in the city after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration herein provided for before commencing the same; and any person transacting or offering to transact in the city, any of the kinds of business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having so obtained the registration, shall be subject to penalties provided thereof.
(Code 1985, § 6-29.3; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1)
Sec. 10-30. - Businesses not covered by this chapter.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this chapter but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other state law or by local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. ch. 46-3.
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355. (Businesses that purchase carload lots of guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed, or cottonseed meal and hulls.)
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(Code 1985, § 6-29.4; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1)
Sec. 10-31. - Occupation tax prohibited by state or federal law.
An occupation tax shall not apply to the gross receipts of any part of a business where such levy is prohibited or exempted by the laws of the state or of the United States.
(Code 1985, § 6-29.5; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1)
Sec. 10-32. - Requirement of public hearing before tax increase.
(a)
After January 1, 1996, the city council shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the rate of occupation tax as set forth in this chapter.
(b)
The city council may by subsequent ordinance or resolution provide for an exemption or reduction in occupation tax to one or more types of businesses or practitioner of occupations or professions as part of a plan for economic development or attracting or encouraging selected types of businesses or practitioners of selected occupations or professions. Such exemptions or reductions in occupation tax shall not be arbitrary or capricious, and the reasons shall be set forth in the minutes of the city council.
(Code 1985, § 6-29.6; Ord. of 12-5-1994, § 1)
Secs. 10-33—10-52. - Reserved.
