ARTICLE III. - OPERATIONS OF VEHICLES GENERALLY

Sec. 18-50. - Speed limits—Generally.
Unless otherwise specifically provided by ordinance, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle in excess of twenty-five (25) miles per hour on any street with the exception of those streets listed in section 18-51.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 47A; Ord. No. 775, § 1, 4-28-80)
Cross reference— Speed of bicycles, § 18-153.
State Law reference— Authority to decrease speed limit, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-183.
Sec. 18-51. - Same—On streets where speed detection devices employed.
(a)
On-system streets. For on-system streets see the latest speed zone order for the county as effected and issued by the state department of transportation and the state department of public safety. The state speed zone order is hereby adopted by reference thereto for those sections of state routes within the city. Signs are to be erected by the state department of transportation.
_____
(b)
Off-system street. The following are off-system streets, signs for which are to be erected by the city:
EXPAND
Street     From     To Length
(miles) Speed Limit
(m.p.h.)
Berkeley Road South Avondale Plaza Lakeview Place .40 25
Berkeley Road Lakeview Place Wiltshire Drive .30 25
Clarendon Ave. North Avondale Road Columbia Drive 1.50 30
Kensington Road Covington Highway South Avondale Plaza .80 30
North Clarendon Ave. Old Rockbridge Road North Avondale Road .30 30
South Avondale Road Fairfield Drive Clarendon Avenue .30 30
  (Ord. No. 848, §§ 1, 2, 2-24-92; Ord. No. 0301, § 1, 2-24-03; Ord. No. 0308, § 1, 12-15-03; Ord. No. 0413, § 1, 12-21-04)
Sec. 18-52. - Same—Slowly moving vehicles generally.
Slowly moving or heavily laden vehicles shall not be driven upon the streets abreast, but one must follow behind the other and keep as near the right-hand curb as possible.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 50)
Sec. 18-53. - Limitations on backing.
The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be made in safety. Such backing shall be done at a speed not to exceed five (5) miles per hour, nor for a greater distance than sixty (60) feet, and never into an intersection.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 43)
Sec. 18-54. - Towing.
No vehicle shall tow more than one (1) other vehicle, nor shall the connection between vehicles exceed sixteen (16) feet in length.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 46)
Sec. 18-55. - Pass-through traffic prohibited at certain times.
(a)
Between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., it shall be unlawful for pass-through traffic to enter the city at the following locations:
(1)
South Avondale Road or Clarendon Avenue at either's intersection with East College Avenue/North Avondale Road and to exit at Kensington Road at its intersection with Stratford Road or at its intersection with Wynn Drive or at its intersection with Covington Highway; or
(2)
Kensington Road at its intersection with Covington Highway or at its intersection with Wynn Drive or at its intersection with Stratford Road and to exit at South Avondale Plaza or to exit at Clarendon Avenue or to exit at South Avondale Road/North Avondale Road/East College Avenue.
(b)
An operator of a motor vehicle shall be deemed to engage in pass-through traffic when such driver enters and exits streets in the city as above-stated without making a bona fide stop at the elementary school on Lakeshore Drive at Covington Road or within the residential district of the city, except as directed by traffic control devices.
Sec. 18-56. - Pass through truck traffic prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for trucks to use the residential streets of the city except to make a bona fide delivery on a residential street within the city. Any person driving or in charge or control of a truck shall be prepared to present for inspection by a police officer a log book, weight slip, delivery slip or other written evidence of such person's destination in the residential district of the city and point of origin to justify the presence of the restricted vehicle on the residential street.
Sec. 18-57. - Securing loads.
No person shall operate any vehicle with a load on the public streets and roads of the city unless the load on or in such vehicle is adequately secured so as to prevent any of its load from dropping, escaping, or shifting in such a manner as to create a safety hazard or in such a manner so as to litter the streets and roads of the city.
Sec. 18-58. - Play streets.
(a)
Authority to establish; signing. The city may declare any street or part thereof a play street and place appropriate signs or devices in the roadway indicating and helping to protect it.
(b)
Driving on; speed limit. Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon such street or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and then the driver shall exercise the highest degree of care in driving upon such street or portion thereof, and at no time shall the driver's speed exceed ten (10) miles per hour.
Sec. 18-59. - One-way streets and rotary traffic islands.
(a)
Whenever this chapter or any ordinance of the city designates any one-way street or alley, signs shall be placed giving notice thereof, and no regulation shall be effective unless these signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited. The following are one-way streets in the direction indicated:
(1)
Lakeshore Drive, northbound, from Kensington Road to Covington Road.
(2)
Dartmouth Avenue, northbound, from Clarendon Place to Kingstone Road/Fairfield Plaza, from Memorial Day through Labor Day.
(b)
A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only to the right of such island.
State Law reference— Authority to designate one-way streets, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(4); one-way streets generally, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-47.
Sec. 18-60. - All-way stop signs.
Whenever this chapter or any ordinance of the city designates all-way stops at intersecting streets, signs shall be placed giving notice thereof, and no regulation shall be effective unless these signs are in place. The following are designated as intersections at which traffic shall be required to stop in all directions:
(1)
Berkeley Road and Kingstone Road;
(2)
Dartmouth Avenue and Clarendon Place;
(3)
Dartmouth Avenue and Kingstone Road and Fairfield Plaza;
(4)
Exeter Road and Fairfield Plaza and Fairfield Drive;
(5)
Hess Drive and Lakeshore Drive;
(6)
Kensington Road and Berkeley Road and South Avondale Plaza;
(7)
Kensington Road and Lakeshore Drive;
(8)
Kensington Road and Stratford Road;
(9)
Kensington Road and Wynn Drive;
(10)
Majestic Circle and Wynn Drive;
(11)
Nottingham Drive and Majestic Circle;
(12)
Nottingham Drive and Wynn Drive;
(13)
Nottingham Drive and Wiltshire Drive;
(14)
Wiltshire Drive and Hess Drive;
(15)
Wiltshire Drive and Majestic Circle;
(16)
Wiltshire Drive and Stratford Road;
(17)
Wiltshire Drive and Lakeshore Drive and Lakeshore Plaza;
(18)
Wiltshire Drive and Berkeley Road;
(19)
Windsor Terrace and Melford Place.
Secs. 18-61—18-80. - Reserved.
