APPENDIX C - FRANCHISES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein are the franchise ordinances and resolutions of the city. Amendments to the franchises are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original ordinance or resolution. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE I. - CATV FRANCHISES
DIVISION 1. - ORDINANCE NO. 746
An Ordinance providing for granting of nonexclusive franchise to erect, maintain and operate in, under, over, along, across, and upon the streets, lanes, avenues, sidewalks, alleys, and highways and other public places in the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia, and subsequent additions thereto, towers, poles, lines, cables, necessary wiring and other apparatus, for the purpose of transmission and distribution by cable of television signals to enable sale of community television antenna service to the inhabitants of said [the] city, and other purposes, and providing for compensation to the city.
Be it ordained by the mayor and city councilmen of the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia:

Sec. I. - [Nonexclusive franchise granted.]
In consideration of the faithful performance and observance of the conditions and reservations which are hereinafter specified, the nonexclusive right is hereby granted DeKalb Cablevision Corporation, hereinafter referred to as grantee, and to said grantee's successors, assigns or designees, to erect, maintain and operate towers, poles, lines, cables, necessary wiring, and other apparatus and additions thereto, in, under, over, along, across and upon the present and future streets, lanes, avenues, sidewalks, alleys, and other public places in the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia, and subsequent additions thereto, for the purpose of transmission and distribution of audio, visual, electronic and electric impulses and television energy, through cables and/or wires, commonly called a Community Antenna Television System, in accordance with the laws and regulations of the United States of America, and the State of Georgia, and the ordinances and regulations of the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia, commencing from and after the adoption of said ordinance.
Sec. II. - [All-band system to be installed; compliance with FCC regulations.]
Grantee shall install an "all-band" community antenna television system capable of distributing up to twelve (12) television channels or their equivalent, said [the] system to be installed and maintained in accordance with the best accepted standards of the community antenna television industry and in compliance with rules and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission. Grantee shall construct and maintain said [the] system in compliance with FCC regulations regarding installation, operation and technical standards.
Sec. III. - [Performance bond required.]
Before grantee shall be allowed to proceed with the installation of its community antenna television system hereunder, it shall first file with the city clerk of the City of Avondale Estates a performance bond in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), with sufficient sureties, in favor of the City of Avondale Estates; conditioned on said [the] grantee's faithful execution of the obligations under this ordinance.
Sec. IV. - [Office; maintenance requests.]
Grantee shall maintain an office to be available immediately upon commencement of service, and all maintenance requests shall be promptly dealt with and accomplished in a workmanlike manner.
Sec. V. - [Television defined.]
Wherever used in this ordinance, the word "television" shall mean a system for transmission of audio signals and/or visual images by means of electrical impulses and/or cable, wire or any other appropriate means.
Sec. VI. - Further rights of grantee.
There is hereby granted the further nonexclusive right, privilege, and authority to grantee, as defined herein, to lease, rent, or in any other manner obtain the use of towers, poles, lines, cables, and other equipment, and facilities from any and all holders of public licenses and franchises within the corporate limits of the City of Avondale Estates, including but not limited to the Southern Bell Telephone Company and the Georgia Power Company, and to use such towers, poles, lines, cables and other equipment facilities, subject to all existing and future ordinances and regulations of the city. The poles used by grantee's distribution system shall be those erected and maintained by existing public utility systems, when and where practicable, providing mutually satisfactory agreements can be entered into with said companies.
Grantee shall provide and keep current a map of the City of Avondale Estates showing the exact type, style and location of any and all lines, poles and other fixtures of grantees within the city limits of Avondale Estates, Georgia.
Grantee shall have the right to erect and maintain its own poles, as may be necessary for the proper construction and maintenance of the television distribution system, provided written prior approval is obtained in such instances from the City of Avondale Estates or its representative.
Such contracts for the use of poles shall specify that they are nonexclusive, and grantee shall make copies of such contracts available for public inspection upon request.
Sec. VII. - [Selling, renting, etc., television sets; commercial advertising; limitation of authority.]
Neither grantee, their subsidiaries, nor their employees, shall engage in the business of selling, renting, or leasing television sets or other receivers which make use of signals transmitted by their system, nor shall grantee, their subsidiaries or their employees, engage in servicing of television sets or receivers owned or leased by their subscribers, or the sale of parts for the same.
Grantee shall not delete the commercial advertising portion of a signal which they are carrying from a Federal Communications Commission licensed television station and substitute therefor other commercial advertising over such signal.
The authority hereby granted to grantee shall not include the authority to transmit or assist in the transmission of TV programs for which customers would pay dependent upon the number or amount of programs received in contrast to full-time cable service as proposed herein.
Sec. VIII. - Limitations of right granted.
Grantee's transmission and distribution system poles, wires and appurtenances shall be located, erected and maintained so as not to endanger or interfere with the lives of persons, or to interfere with new improvements the city may deem proper to make, or to hinder unnecessarily or obstruct the free use of the streets, alleys, bridges, or other public property; removal of poles to avoid such interference shall be done promptly upon receiving written request to do so from the City of Avondale Estates, or its designated official, and will be at grantee's expense.
Construction and maintenance of the transmission distribution system shall be in accordance with the provisions of the National Electrical Safety Code of the American Insurance Association, and such applicable ordinances and regulations of the City of Avondale Estates affecting electrical installations, which may be presently in effect, or changed by future ordinances.
All installations of equipment shall be of permanent nature, durable and installed in accordance with good engineering practices, and of sufficient height to comply with all existing city regulations, ordinances, and state laws so as not to interfere in any manner with the right of the public or individual property owner, and shall not interfere with the travel and use of public places by the public and during the construction, repair, or removal thereof, shall not obstruct or impede traffic. Further, said construction shall be subject to inspection by and approval by the City of Avondale Estates or its representative.
No poles are to be erected upon the public streets, alleys, avenues and public grounds and no excavation of any type shall be done or caused to be done unless permission in writing is first obtained from the City of Avondale Estates or its representative. No poles can be erected on private property without permission of the owner of the property.
Grantee agrees that if any of their cables or wires are installed on existing aboveground systems which are placed underground at any future date, the grantee will likewise place their cables or wires underground.
In the event that a change is made in the grade, width or location of public streets, alleys, avenues, and grounds by authority of the city, which shall necessitate the removal of any poles, wires, transmission and distribution lines to conform to the change of grade, grantee shall make the necessary changes in their lines, at their own expense, upon due notice from the City of Avondale Estates.
In the maintenance and operation of their television transmission and distribution system in the streets, alleys, and other public places, and the course of any new construction or addition to their facilities, grantee shall proceed so as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the general public; any opening or obstruction in the streets or other public places made by grantee in the course of their operations shall be made only after having obtained prior written permission from the city to do so, and shall be guarded and protected at all times by the placement of adequate barriers, fences, or boardings, the bounds of which, during periods of dusk and darkness, shall be clearly designated by red warning lights.
All work in any way necessitated by the business of grantee which may involve the opening, breaking up or tearing up of a portion of a street, sidewalk or other part of any city-owned or city-controlled property, shall be done and repaired in a manner approved by the City of Avondale Estates, and shall, at the option of the city, be done by the city at the expense of grantee. Grantee shall save the city harmless against all loss or damage to any person or property caused by the construction, laying, maintenance or operation of any of its lines or other undertakings under the authority of this ordinance. Nothing herein shall be construed as a requirement that the City of Avondale Estates conduct as excavation or repair on behalf of or as agents for grantee.
Grantee shall, at their expense, protect, support, temporarily disconnect, relocate on the same street, alley or public place, or remove from the street, alley or public place, any property of grantee when required by the city by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street vacation, freeway and bridge construction, change or establishments of street grade, installation of sewers, drains, waterpipes, power lines, signal lines, and tracks or any other types of structures or improvements by governmental agencies when acting in a governmental or proprietary capacity, or other structures of public improvement; provided, however, that grantee shall in all such cases have the privileges and be subject to the obligations to abandon any property of grantee in place as provided in section XVII hereof.
Sec. IX. - [City's use of poles.]
Grantee shall grant to the city, free of expense, joint use of any and all poles owned by them for any proper municipal purpose, insofar as it may be done without interfering with the free use and enjoyment of grantee's own wires and fixtures. Proper regard shall be given to all existing safety rules covering construction and maintenance in effect at the time of construction. If, in accommodating the city's joint use of their poles grantee is required to change or replace poles or install new poles, the city shall compensate grantee for such additional expense.
Sec. X. - Indemnification of city.
Grantee shall, at all times, keep in effect the following types of insurance coverage:
(a)
Workmen's Compensation upon their employees engaged in any manner in the management, operation, installation or servicing of their plant and equipment within the City of Avondale Estates.
(b)
Property damage liability insurance to the extent of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) as to any one (1) person and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) as to any one (1) accident, and personal injury liability insurance to the extent of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) as to any one (1) accident and three hundred thousand [dollars] ($300,000.00) as to any one (1) person.
Grantee shall indemnify, protect and save harmless the city from [and] against losses and physical damage to property, and bodily injury or death to persons, including payments made under any Workmen's Compensation law which may arise out of or be caused by the erection, maintenance, presence, use or removal of said attachments or pole or poles within the city, or by any act of grantee, their [its] agent or employees. Grantee shall also pay for the cost to the city of defending in any court any action brought against the city arising out of the operations of the grantee hereunder. Grantee shall carry insurance in the above-described amounts to protect the parties hereto from and against all claims, demands, actions, judgments, costs, expenses and liabilities which may arise or result directly or indirectly, from or by reason of such loss, injury or damage. Grantee shall also carry such insurance as deem[ed] necessary to protect them from all claims under the Workmen's Compensation laws in effect that may be applicable to grantee. All insurance required shall be written with a company or companies approved by the City of Avondale Estates and shall remain in full force and effect for the entire life of the rights granted hereunder. Said policy or policies of insurance, or a certified copy thereof, shall be approved by the City of Avondale Estates, and then deposited with and kept on file by the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia.
Sec. XI. - Franchise and gross receipts payments.
Grantee shall, at the time it receives its franchise pursuant to this ordinance, pay to the City of Avondale Estates the sum of seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00), and, in addition, shall thereafter pay the gross receipts payments hereinafter set forth. For the rights granted hereunder, grantee shall pay to the city, at the time hereinafter specified, a sum equal to four (4) percent of the monthly total gross receipts derived from that portion of its CATV System situated in the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia. "Gross receipts" shall include monthly service charges and all other operating revenues but shall not include monies received as installation charges and charges and fees for reconnections, inspections, repairs, or modifications of any installation and shall be paid monthly. Nothing herein contained, however, shall in any way relieve grantee or their [its] assigns or successors from the obligation of paying any property taxes to the City of Avondale Estates, or any other governmental subdivision of the State of Georgia or any other taxes lawfully levied by the State of Georgia on the operation of grantee.
Grantee shall file with the city, within thirty (30) days after the expiration of any calendar year during the term of the rights granted hereunder, a statement prepared by a certified public accountant showing the gross receipts as defined herein. It shall be the duty of grantee to pay to the city within fifteen (15) days after the time for filing such statements, any unpaid balance for the calendar year covered by such statement. In any year or portions thereof, during which payments under this section amount to less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per month, grantee shall pay the city the minimum amount of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per month, said payments to commence immediately. Failure to begin operation of the system authorized hereby for a period of twenty-four (24) months, or failure to operate for any consecutive period of six (6) months after operation has begun, shall serve automatically to terminate the franchise rights granted pursuant to this ordinance.
Sec. XII. - Time of performance.
Grantee shall proceed as soon as possible from the date of this ordinance with due diligence to obtain all necessary permits and authorizations which may be required in the conduct of its business, including utilities, joint use attachment agreements and microwave carrier licenses to be granted by duly constituted regulatory agencies. Further, grantee shall commence the installation of said system with due diligence and within a reasonable time subsequent to the obtaining of all the aforementioned necessary permits and authorizations, and shall proceed with all due diligence to render service to subscribers following the commencement of installation of the system.
Sec. XIII. - [Privilege, right or exemption.]
No privilege, right or exemption shall be granted or conferred under this ordinance except those specifically prescribed herein.
Sec. XIV. - [Assignment or transfer of rights.]
The rights hereunder granted to grantee shall not be assigned or transferred for a period of twenty-four (24) months from the date of the adoption of this ordinance except to a company, corporation or partnership controlled by grantee. Thereafter any sale, assignment or transfer of the rights hereunder shall be made only with the prior consent of the City of Avondale Estates expressed by resolution. The said consent of the city may not be arbitrarily refused; provided, however, that the proposed transferee or assignee must show financial responsibility to the satisfaction of the city and must agree to comply with all the provisions of this ordinance; and provided, further, that no such consent shall be required for a transfer by trust deed, deed to secure debt, or other hypothecation as a whole, to secure an indebtedness.
Sec. XV. - [Grantee subject to requirements of city ordinances, rules, etc.]
Grantee is subject to all requirements of the city ordinances, rules, regulations and specifications of the city, including, but not limited to, those concerning street work, street excavation, use removal and relocation of property within a street, and other street work.
Sec. XVI. - Rights reserved to city.
There is hereby reserved to the city every right and power which is required to be herein reserved or provided by any state statute or ordinance of the city, and grantee, by their acceptance of the rights granted hereunder, agree to be bound thereby, and to comply with any action or requirement of the city in its exercise of any such right or power. Further, the rights granted hereunder shall not preclude the city from granting to any other person a right to provide similar services in the City of Avondale Estates.
Sec. XVII. - Abandonment.
In the event that the use of any part of the system should cease for any reason for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, or in the event such system or property has been installed in any street or public place without complying with the requirements of this ordinance, or the rights granted hereunder have been terminated, cancelled or have expired, grantee shall promptly remove from the streets and public places all such property and poles of such system, other than any which the city may permit to be abandoned in place. In the event of such removal, grantee shall promptly restore the street or other area from which such property has been removed to a condition satisfactory to the city.
Any property of grantee to be abandoned in place shall be abandoned in such manner as the city may prescribe. Upon permanent abandonment of the property of grantee in place, grantee shall submit to the city an instrument to be approved by the city, transferring to the city the ownership of such property.
Sec. XVIII. - [Failure of grantee to complete work.]
Upon failure of grantee to complete any work required by law or by the provisions of this ordinance to be done in any street, within the time prescribed, and to the satisfaction of the city, the city may cause such work to be done and grantee shall pay the city the cost thereof in the itemized amount reported to grantee within thirty (30) days after receipt of such itemized report.
Sec. XIX. - [Term.]
The term for which each franchise is granted as provided herein shall be for a period of twenty (20) years.
Sec. XX. - [Severability.]
If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance is for any reason held illegal, invalid, unconstitutional or void all other sections thereof not so held shall be and remain in full force and effect.
Adopted March 8, 1971.
DIVISION 2. - ORDINANCE NO. 777
An ordinance approving transfer of community antenna television system franchise
Whereas, by ordinance adopted on March 8, 1971, (the "ordinance") the City of Avondale Estates granted DeKalb Cablevision Corporation ("DCC") and its successors and assigns, a nonexclusive franchise to construct, maintain, and operate a community antenna television ("CATV") system in the City of Avondale Estates, (the "franchise") which system is presently operated by DCC; and,
Whereas, on May 15, 1980, Cable DeKalb, Inc., ("Cable DeKalb") purchased eighty (80) percent of the shares of outstanding common stock of DCC, and contracted for an option to acquire the remaining shares of DCC which actions grant Cable DeKalb effective control of DCC; and,
Whereas, section XIV of the ordinance grants DCC the power to sell, assign, and transfer its rights under the franchise, subject to the prior consent of the City of Avondale Estates; and,
Whereas, DCC is proposing to merge its operations into Cable DeKalb, and Cable DeKalb has agreed to comply with all of the provisions of the ordinance as hereinafter modified.
Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City of Avondale Estates as follows:

1. - [Validation of franchise; modification.]
The City of Avondale Estates does hereby confirm, ratify, and validate the franchise owned by DCC as of the date hereof, except as hereinafter modified.
2. - [Conditional approval.]
The proposed liquidation and merger of DCC into Cable DeKalb and the subsequent assignment and transfer to Cable DeKalb of the franchise owned by DCC is hereby approved, such approval to be effective as of the effective date of the merger of DCC into Cable DeKalb and subject to the following conditions:
3. - [Amendments.]
The Ordinance is hereby amended as follows:
(a)
Section II is amended by adding thereto the following:
"The grantee shall provide the same number of channels and level of service to subscribers within the City of Avondale Estates as it provides to any area in DeKalb County which receives its maximum service."
(b)
Section XI is amended by striking the words "twenty-five dollars ($25.00)" wherever they appear and inserting in lieu thereof the words "one hundred dollars ($100.00)."
(c)
Section XII is amended by adding after the last sentence thereof the following:
"Grantee shall offer service to all residences in the City of Avondale Estates within twelve (12) months herefrom."
(d)
The City of Avondale Estates reserves the right to raise the "gross receipts" payment set out in section XI from four (4) percent to five (5) percent, provided the expense of regulation warrants same.
4. - [City bound by ordinance.]
Cable DeKalb shall execute an agreement consenting to be bound by the ordinance as amended hereby.
5. - [Notification of date of merger; time limit.]
DCC and Cable DeKalb shall notify the City of Avondale Estates in writing, through the mayor, of the effective date of the merger of DCC's business into Cable DeKalb. If such merger is not consummated within two (2) years of the date of this ordinance, then the parties shall be required to submit this matter again for approval.
6. - [Emergency ordinance.]
This ordinance shall be adopted as an emergency ordinance in order to approve said transfer prior to October 1, 1980.
So ordained, this 22nd day of September, 1980.
DIVISION 3. - RESOLUTION OF SEPTEMBER 26, 1983
Whereas, the City of Avondale Estates (the "city") granted to DeKalb Cablevision Corporation a nonexclusive franchise to construct, maintain, and operate a Community Antenna Television System in the city (the "franchise") by ordinance adopted March 8, 1971; and
Whereas, by Ordinance No. 777, adopted September 22, 1980, the city approved of the transfer of the franchise to Cable DeKalb, Inc. ("Cable DeKalb") and amended the ordinance adopted March 8, 1971; and
Whereas, Cable DeKalb submitted an application to the mayor and members of the city council on September 2, 1983 for the approval by the city of the assignment by Cable DeKalb of the Franchise to Prime Cable of Georgia Limited, a Georgia limited partnership; and
Whereas, the city has investigated the proposed assignment and has made certain findings.
Now, therefore, be and it is hereby ordained by the council of the City of Avondale Estates, as follows:

1. - [Qualifications; compliance with Ordinance Nos. 746 and 777.]
That, after investigation, the city hereby finds that Prime Cable of Georgia Limited demonstrated satisfactory qualifications, as required by section XIV of the ordinance adopted on March 8, 1971; and that the proposed assignment and Prime Cable of Georgia Limited comply with all provisions of the ordinance adopted on March 8, 1971, and Ordinance No. 777.
2. - [Consent.]
That, the city does hereby consent to the assignment of the franchise from Cable DeKalb to Prime Cable of Georgia Limited. Such consent satisfies the requirement of section XIV of the ordinance adopted on March 8, 1971 regarding the city's consent. Such consent shall become effective upon the agreement by Prime Cable of Georgia Limited to comply with all the provisions of the ordinance adopted on March 8, 1971, as amended by Ordinance No. 777.
All so adopted this 26th day of September, 1983.
DIVISION 4. - RESOLUTION OF NOVEMBER 23, 1987
Whereas, the City of Avondale Estates (the "city") granted to DeKalb Cablevision Corporation a nonexclusive franchise to construct, maintain, and operate a community antenna television system in the city (the "franchise") by ordinance adopted March 8, 1971; and
Whereas, by Ordinance No. 777, adopted September 22, 1980, the city approved the transfer of the franchise to Cable DeKalb, Inc. ("Cable DeKalb") and amended the ordinance adopted March 8, 1971; and
Whereas, by resolution dated September 26, 1983, the City approved the transfer of the franchise to Prime Cable of Georgia Limited, a Georgia limited partnership; and
Whereas, Prime Cable of Georgia Limited submitted an application to the board of mayor and commissioners on October 22, 1987, for approval by the city of the assignment by Prime Cable of Georgia Limited of the franchise to Georgia Cable Partners, a Georgia general partnership, the financial ownership of which is held by Georgia Cable Holdings Limited Partnership of Texas and Prime Venture I, Inc., a Prime Cable Group affiliate; and
Whereas, the city has investigated the proposed assignment and has made certain findings.
Now, therefore, be it resolved by the Board of Mayor and Commissioners of the City of Avondale Estates, as follows:

1. - [Satisfactory qualifications; compliance with Ordinance Nos. 746 and 777.]
After investigation, the city hereby finds that Georgia Cable Partners demonstrated satisfactory qualifications, as required by section XIV of the ordinance adopted on March 8, 1971; and said proposed assignment complies with all provisions of the ordinance adopted on March 8, 1971, and Ordinance No. 777.
2. - [Consent.]
The city does hereby consent to the assignment of the franchise from Prime Cable of Georgia Limited to Georgia Cable Partners. Such consent satisfies the requirement of section XIV of the ordinance adopted on March 8, 1971, regarding the city's consent. Such consent shall become effective upon the agreement by Georgia Cable Partners to comply with all the provisions of the ordinance adopted on March 8, 1971, as amended by Ordinance No. 777.
Resolved this 23 day of November, 1987.
DIVISION 5. - RESOLUTION OF MAY 29, 1990
Whereas, by ordinance adopted March 8, 1971, the City of Avondale Estates (the "city") granted to DeKalb Cablevision Corporation, and its successors and assigns, a nonexclusive franchise (the "franchise") for a term of twenty (20) years to construct, maintain, and operate a community antenna television system in the city; and
Whereas, by Ordinance No. 777, adopted September 22, 1980, the city approved the transfer of the franchise to Cable DeKalb, Inc. and amended the ordinance adopted March 8, 1971; and
Whereas, by resolution dated September 26, 1983, the city approved the transfer of the franchise to Prime Cable of Georgia Limited, a Georgia limited partnership; and
Whereas, by resolution dated November 23, 1987, the City approved the transfer of the franchise to Georgia Cable Partners ("Georgia Partners"), a Georgia general partnership; and
Whereas, the franchise by its terms shall expire on March 8, 1991; and
Whereas, pursuant to the provisions of Section 626 of the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984 (47 USC 546) (the "cable act"), Georgia Partners has submitted its proposal that the franchise be renewed on the same terms and conditions as presently set forth therein for a period of ten (10) years from and after March 8, 1991; and
Whereas, pursuant to the requirements of the cable act, the public has been provided adequate notice and opportunity to comment on (1) the future cable-related community needs and interests and (2) the performance of Georgia Partners under the franchise during the current franchise term.
Now, therefore, be it resolved by the Board of Mayor and Commissioners of the City of Avondale Estates, as follows:
The franchise presently held by Georgia Cable Partners is hereby renewed on the same terms and conditions as presently set forth therein for a period of ten (10) years beginning March 8, 1991; provided, however, that the franchise fee payable to the city under the franchise shall be increased from four (4) percent to five (5) percent of gross receipts; and provided, further, that the franchise as renewed, shall be subject to the provisions of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, the rules and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission and any other governmental authority having jurisdiction over the matters described therein.
Resolved this 29th day of May, 1990.
DIVISION 6. - RESOLUTION OF AUGUST 22, 1994
A resolution of the City of Avondale Estates to approve the transfer of the franchise and the assignment of the assets to operate a cable television system in the City of Avondale Estates from Georgia Cable Partners, a Georgia General Partnership, to Southern Multimedia Communications, Inc., a Delaware Corporation.
Whereas, the cable television franchise in the City of Avondale Estates (the "franchise") is currently owned and operated by Georgia Cable Partners (the "franchisee") pursuant to a valid existing franchise dated March 8, 1971, and subsequently renewed on May 29, 1990, the terms and conditions of which franchise are in full force and effect as of the date of this resolution; and
Whereas, the franchisee and Atlanta Cable Partners, L.P., an affiliated partnership, have entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the "agreement") dated July 15, 1994, with U S West, Inc. ("U S West") and U S West Multimedia Communications, Inc. ("Multimedia"), a Colorado corporation, providing for the sale, assignment and transfer of the assets of its cable system, as well as its rights and obligations under the Franchise to U S West with an immediate assignment and transfer to WOMETCO Cable Corp., a Delaware corporation which will subsequently be known as Southern Multimedia Communications, Inc. ("Southern Multimedia"); and
Whereas, Southern Multimedia will be an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of U S West, Inc., a Colorado corporation; and
Whereas, the franchise requires that prior to a transfer of the franchise, the city must grant its consent thereto; and
Whereas, franchisee and Southern Multimedia have submitted an application requesting consent by the city to transfer the franchise; and
Whereas, Southern Multimedia has demonstrated that it possesses the financial, technical, and legal qualifications to operate the cable television in the city.
Now, therefore, be it resolved by the Board of Mayor and Commissioners of the City of Avondale Estates that the city hereby consents to and approves the transfer of the franchise, including the transfer to Southern Multimedia and its successors, or to any affiliated company controlled by U S West, and Southern Multimedia's or such affiliate's assumption of all rights and obligations under the franchise relating to the period from and after the date of the consummation of the agreement.
Be it further resolved that the assumption by Southern Multimedia or such affiliate of all the rights and obligations under the franchise shall take effect on and after the consummation of the agreement.
Resolved this 22nd day of August, 1994.
ARTICLE II. - ELECTRIC UTILITY FRANCHISES
DIVISION 1. - ORDINANCE NO. 727[2]
Ordinance granting permission and consent to the Georgia Power Company successors, lessees and assigns, to occupy the streets and public places of the City of Avondale Estates in constructing, maintaining, and extending poles, lines and appliances for transmitting and distributing electricity, and for other purposes.

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 727 was passed on April 12, 1965.

Sec. I. - [Permission to use streets, alleys and public places.]
Be it ordained by the board of mayor and commissioners of the City of Avondale Estates (hereinafter referred to as the "city"), that the authority, right, permission and consent are hereby granted to the Georgia Power Company, its successors, lessees and assigns for a period of ninety-nine (99) years, to occupy and use the streets, alleys and public places of the city within the present and future limits of the said city as from time to time the said Georgia Power Company, its successors, lessees and assigns, may deem proper or necessary for the erection and maintenance of poles, towers, lines, wires, cables, insulators, transformers and all appliances or connections for the business and purpose of transmitting, conveying, conducting, using, supplying and distributing electricity for light, heat, power and other purposes for which electric current may be useful or practicable for public or private use, and to re-enter upon such streets, alleys and public places from time to time as may be necessary for the extension, operation, repair and renewal of the same or any portion thereof, and to cut and trim trees and shrubbery when and where necessary, in the judgment of the company, to insure safe and efficient service.
Sec. II. - [Terms and conditions.]
Be it further ordained that the rights, permission and consents herein contained are made for the following consideration and upon the following terms and conditions, to-wit:
1.
The said Georgia Power Company, its successors and assigns, shall pay into the treasury of the city on or before the first day of March each year, beginning with the year 1966, a sum of money equal to four (4) percent of the gross sales of electric energy to customers served under residential and commercial rate schedules (as prescribed by the Georgia Public Service Commission), within the corporate limits of the city for the preceding calendar year, so long as the city itself shall not engage in any such competing utility business; and on condition that in the event the city shall grant to any other corporation the right to use and occupy its streets for like purposes, such use and occupancy shall be upon the same terms and conditions as those herein contained, including the payment of a license, privilege or occupation tax in an amount at least equal to that herein specified.
2.
The payment of the percentage of gross sales above provided for shall be in lieu of all occupation, license, excise and special franchise taxes, and in full of all money demands and charges, except ad valorem taxes on property and license taxes on the sale of appliances; and whatever amount, if any, shall at any time be required or exacted for the benefit of the city on any of said accounts or on any account, other than ad valorem taxes on property and license taxes on the sale of appliances, shall operate to reduce to that extent the amount due from the percentage above provided for.
3.
That should the city itself ever at any time construct, purchase, lease, acquire, own, hold, use or operate an electric lighting or power plant and/or distribution system, then and in that event the payment of the percentage gross sales herein provided to be paid by the Georgia Power Company, its successors and assigns, shall abate, cease, and be no longer due and shall forever thereafter be uncollectible.
4.
That the work of erecting poles and all other work upon the streets and public places of said city shall be done under the supervision of the board of mayor and commissioners (or other legally constituted governing body) of the city, and that all sidewalks or street payments [pavements] or street surface which may be displaced by reason of such work shall be properly replaced and relaid by the said Georgia Power Company, its successors, lessees and assigns, to the satisfaction of the board of mayor and commissioners (or other legally constituted governing body) of the city.
5.
That the Georgia Power Company, its successors and assigns, shall fully protect, indemnify and save harmless the city from all damages to person[s] or property caused by the erection or maintaining of poles, wires, or other works, or condition of streets, alleys or public places resulting therefrom for which the city would otherwise be liable or on account of which judgment may be rendered against the city.
6.
The said Georgia Power Company, its successors, lessees and assigns, shall further, in constructing and maintaining its system of overhead lines, poles, wires and other structures, submit and be subject to all reasonable police laws, rules and regulations of the city for the regulation or control of such structures.
7.
Provided that no poles shall be set in streets of the city without first obtaining permission from the city and further provided that no shrubbery and/or trees shall be cut or trimmed except in an emergency without first obtaining permission from the city.
Sec. III. - [Acceptance.]
Be it further ordained that the said Georgia Power Company, its successors or assigns, shall within ninety (90) days from the approval of this ordinance file its written acceptance of the same with the city clerk.
Sec. IV. - [Repeal of conflicting provisions.]
Be it further ordained that all laws and ordinances in conflict herewith be and the same are hereby repealed.
ARTICLE III. - GAS FRANCHISES
DIVISION 1. - ORDINANCE NO. 843[3]
An ordinance, granting to Atlanta Gas Light Company, a Georgia corporation, its successors and assigns, the exclusive right and franchise to use and occupy the streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks, and other public places of the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia, for constructing, maintaining, renewing, repairing, and operating a gas works and gas distribution system, and other necessary means for manufacturing, transmitting, distributing and selling of manufactured, natural or commingled gas within and through the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia; fixing the terms and conditions of such grant; to repeal conflicting ordinances; and for other purposes.
Be it ordained by the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia, as follows:

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 843 was adopted on November 25, 1991.

Section 1. - [Adoption.]
The document entitled "Chapter 13, Occupational Licenses, Taxes and Regulations, Article V. Franchises: Gas Works and Gas Distribution System" attached hereto and comprising three (3) pages, is hereby adopted as an ordinance of the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia.
Sec. 13-60. Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the following words shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them:
(1)
City shall mean the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia.
(2)
Grantee shall mean the Atlanta Gas Light Company, a Georgia corporation, its successors and assigns.
(3)
Governing body means the Board of Mayor and Commissioners of the City of Avondale Estates.
Sec. 13-61. Nature of grant.
The authority, right and privilege is hereby granted to said grantee, for and in consideration of and subject to the conditions and provisions of this article, to engage in the business of the purchase, production, distribution and sale of natural and manufactured gas in the city.
The term for which said authority, right and privilege is granted is for a period of thirty (30) years from December 10, 1991, to December 9, 2021.
Sec. 13-62. Extension by annexation.
The city shall notify the grantee within thirty (30) days of annexation of any territory to the city. Upon such notification, the portion of any of the said utility that may be located or operated within such annexed territory shall thereafter be subject to all the terms of this grant of franchise.
Sec. 13-63. Compensation for grant of franchise.
For and in consideration of the grant of this franchise, the grantee shall pay to the city within forty-five (45) days following the end of each quarterly period a sum equal to three (3) percent of the gas sales receipts received by grantee from customers served under all rate schedules except for interruptible rate schedules or special contracts as defined and approved by the Georgia Public Service Commission (or any successor state regulatory group) within the territorial limits of the city during the preceding quarterly period.
It is provided, however, that should the city require grantee to pay any license fee or tax, excise tax, indirect tax, occupation tax, franchise tax, privilege tax, regulation charge or related fees, taxes or charges, excepting ad valorem taxes and business license taxes for sale of appliances, the aggregate amount of such fees, taxes and charges shall be deducted in full by grantee from the quarterly payment or payments subsequently accruing to the city. The quarterly periods for which such payments shall be made shall commence upon the first day of the month immediately following proper adoption, acceptance and effectiveness of this franchise ordinance. The governing body of the city through its authorized representative or representatives shall have the right to inspect and audit the books and records of grantee for the purpose of determining the amount of its revenues received from the sale of gas as set forth above within said territorial limits of the city.
Sec. 13-64. Lease or assignment of franchise.
Grantee shall notify the governing body of the city prior to leasing, assigning, or otherwise alienating this grant.
Sec. 13-65. Indemnification of the city.
The grantee shall at all times protect, indemnify and save harmless the city from all claims against the city, its officers, agents or employees, on account of damage, injury or loss to persons, natural and artificial, and to public and private property, caused by or arising out of any acts of negligence of the grantee, its officers, agents, or employees doing work for the grantee. The city shall promptly notify the grantee in writing of any claim against the city on account thereof and shall be given ample opportunity to defend the same.
Sec. 13-66. Use of streets and public places.
The rights granted by the city to the grantee under the provisions hereof include the right on the part of the grantee to lay, construct, extend, maintain, renew, replace and repair gas pipes, valves, manholes, service boxes, posts, lamps, structures, appliances and all appurtenances and appendages under, along, through and across any streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks and other public places in the city, and to use and occupy the said streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks and other public places for the purpose of therein laying, constructing, extending, maintaining, renewing, replacing and repairing mains, pipes, valves, manholes, service boxes, posts, lamps, structures, appliances and all appurtenances and appendages thereto, used and useful for the manufacture, transmission, distribution and sale of gas within and through the city.
In laying, constructing, maintaining, repairing, replacing, enlarging and extending its pipes, mains and necessary accessories in said streets and other public places, said grantee shall at all times be subject to and comply with all ordinances, rules and regulations of the city now or hereafter in force applicable to the use of said streets and other public places for purposes for which this franchise is granted.
No excavations or work shall be done by the company in the streets or other public places of the city until a permit has been applied for by the grantee and granted by the official of the city charged with such duty. No permit shall be refused where the request is made in conformity to the general ordinances, rules and regulations of the city and the purpose for which the permit is desired is not in violation of such general ordinances, rules and regulations nor in violation of the terms of this franchise.
In addition to complying with all ordinances, rules and regulations of the city, where the use of the public streets and other public places is involved, the grantee shall at all times be subject to and comply with all other ordinances, rules and regulations of the city enacted or promulgated under the police powers of the city for the safety and protection of the general public.
Sec. 13-67. Repair of streets and public places.
Grantee upon making an opening upon any of the streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks and other public places in the city, for the purpose of laying, repairing or maintaining gas mains, pipes, and other accessories, shall use due care and caution to prevent injury to persons, and shall replace and restore all public ways to their former condition as nearly as practicable, and within a reasonable time, and shall not unnecessarily obstruct or impede traffic upon [sic.]
Sec. 13-68. Rates charged by grantee.
Grantee shall be entitled to charge for gas furnished by it at such rates as are prescribed by the Public Service Commission or other lawful regulatory body of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 13-69. Renewal of franchise.
Unless one hundred twenty (120) days written notice is given by one party to the other prior to the expiration of this agreement, this franchise shall be considered as renewed and binding in all its provisions for ten (10) years after such expiration and this franchise shall so continue in operation and effect for a further and second term of ten (10) years unless such notice be given by either party prior to the expiration of the first such renewed term.
Sec. 2. - [Document made public record.]
The document referred to in Section 1 is hereby made public record and shall be maintained by the city clerk as such and be accessible to the members of the general public at City Hall during all normal business hours.
Sec. 3. - [Gas franchises.]
The City of Avondale Estates, Georgia and the undersigned warrant and represent that, with the exception of the franchise granted to Atlanta Gas Light Company by ordinance passed December 11, 1961, for a period of thirty (30) years, which franchise was accepted by Atlanta Gas Light Company, there is no franchise granted by the city and in force and effect, to any other person, firm or corporation and that the city is under no contract or obligation to any other person, firm or corporation, in anywise relating to the installation of gas service in the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia.
Sec. 4. - [Effective date.]
The effective date of this ordinance shall be no earlier than fifteen (15) days after final passage in accordance with the city Charter, and the effective dates of the attachments hereto shall so correspond.
Sec. 5. - [Acceptance.]
Atlanta Gas Light Company shall signify its acceptance of this franchise agreement in writing duly filed with the city clerk.
Sec. 6. - [Conflicting provisions.]
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
Adopted this 25th day of November, 1991.
DIVISION 2. - ORDINANCE NO. 9807[4]
An ordinance to amend prior ordinances, including an ordinance dated November 25, 1991, granting Atlanta Gas Light Company (hereafter company) a franchise for the use of rights-of-way and other public property for the purpose of distributing gas within the City of Avondale Estates, so as to modify the franchise fee calculation provisions; to repeal conflicting laws; to provide an effective date; and for other purposes.
All prior ordinances, including an ordinance dated November 25, 1991, granting Atlanta Gas Light Company a franchise for the use of rights-of-way and other public property for the purpose of distributing gas within the City of Avondale Estates is hereby amended by inserting the following:

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 9807, an amendment to the Atlanta Gas Light Ordinance, was adopted on Aug. 31, 1998.

Sec. 1. - Definitions.
(a)
"Base year" means the fiscal year ending September 30, 1998.
(b)
"Base year franchise fee factor" means the total franchise fees paid during the Base Year divided by the Design Day Capacity as recorded by the Company on the last day of the Base Year.
(c)
"Design day capacity" means the sum of the individual capacity in dekatherms (Dt) attributable to all firm customers located within the city limits of the City, as of the last day of the previous fiscal year.
(d)
"Firm customers" means all residential and business customers who purchase gas service that ordinarily is not subject to interruption or curtailment.
(e)
"Fiscal year" means the 12 months ending September 30, of each year.
(f)
"Inflation index" means the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, or any successor index, for the period from September 30, 1997, to the beginning of the then current fiscal year. The percentage shall be reduced by any productivity factor adjustment for the same time period determined by the Georgia Public Service Commission for the Company.
Sec. 2. - Franchise fee.
The total dollar amount of franchise fees paid by the Company to the City shall be calculated as follows:
The current Fiscal Year total franchise fee shall equal the product of the Design Day Capacity and the current franchise fee factor. The current franchise fee factor shall be equal to the product of the Base Year Franchise Fee Factor and one plus the Inflation Index expressed as a decimal to three significant digits.
The following formula quantifies this payment:
FFc = FFFbyX(1 + (CPI-PFA)) x DDCc
Where FFc = total franchise fees due the city for the current Fiscal Year
FFFby = the Base Year Franchise Fee Factor
CPI-PFA = the Inflation Index based on the cumulative change in the Consumer Price Index less the productivity factor adjustment determined by the Georgia Public Service Commission.
DDCc = the Design Day Capacity as of the last day of the previous fiscal year.
FFFby = FFby/DDCby where
FFby = the total franchise fees paid in the Base Year
and DDC by = the Design Day Capacity of the Base Year.
Sec. 3. - Responsibility for payment of franchise fee.
The Company as the holder of the franchise privilege hereunder is responsible for the payment of all franchise fees payable hereunder, and shall file such reports and returns as required by the franchise ordinance as modified by this Amendment. In addition, the Company shall report annually the names of all Gas marketers for which Company is transporting natural gas on the distribution system within the City.
The franchise fee payments required hereunder shall be in lieu of any franchise fee license fee, occupation tax or other payment for use of the rights-of-way by the Company for the provision of gas service, but shall not prohibit imposition of a license fee or an occupation tax on gas marketers.
Sec. 4. - Quarterly payments.
Effective for the Fiscal Year 1999, and for each Fiscal Year thereafter during the term of the franchise ordinance, the Company shall remit to the City quarterly franchise fee installments. The installments shall equal to one-fourth (¼) of the total annual franchise fee calculated in accordance with this ordinance.
The quarterly payment is due and payable on or before the 30th day following the last day of each calendar quarter.
Sec. 5. - Annual return.
The Company shall file a return with its first quarterly installment in each Fiscal Year showing the details of the calculation of the annual franchise fee.
Sec. 6. - Delay of inflation adjustment.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this ordinance, any inflation adjustments shall be made to the franchise fee only when the Company changes its rates.
Sec. 7. - Conflicts.
In the event of a conflict between this ordinance and the original franchise dated November 25, 1991, this ordinance shall control. All terms, conditions and stipulations contained in such franchise ordinance shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that they do not conflict with this ordinance.
ARTICLE IV. - TELEPHONE FRANCHISES
DIVISION 1. - ORDINANCE NO. 736[5]
Authorizing the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company to use the public streets of the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia for the purpose of erecting, constructing, maintaining and operating lines of telephone and telegraph thereon and thereunder.

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 736 was passed on June 10, 1978.
Cross reference— Telephone company, § 14-166 et seq.

Sec. 1. - [Nature of franchise.]
Be it ordained by the City of Avondale Estates that permission be and the same is hereby granted to the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company, its successors and assigns, to construct, maintain and operate lines of telephone and telegraph, including the necessary poles, conduits, cables, fixtures and electrical conductors upon, along, under and over the public roads, streets and highways of the City of Avondale Estates as its business may from time to time require, provided that all poles shall be neat and symmetrical.
Sec. 2. - [City supervision of poles.]
The work of erecting poles and constructing underground conduits under this ordinance shall be done subject to the supervision of the city, and the company shall replace or properly relay and repair any sidewalk or street that may be displaced by reason of such work, and upon failure of the company so to do, after twenty (20) days' notice in writing shall have been given by the mayor of the city to the company, the city may repair such portion of the sidewalk or street that may have been disturbed by the company, and collect the cost so incurred from the company.
Sec. 3. - [Use of poles and conduits by city.]
In consideration of the rights and privileges herein granted, the company, when requested by the city, will designate and provide without cost to the city:
(1)
On each pole owned and used by the company hereunder and during its ownership and use thereof, either:
(a)
Space for a fixture for, or
(b)
Space for a crossarm for wires of the police and fire alarm signalling system of the city, and
(2)
In each underground conduit owned and used by the company hereunder and during its ownership and use thereof, one duct for the cables of the police and fire alarm signalling system of the city;
provided, however, that no use shall be made by the city of said space on such poles or of said duct which will result in interfering with or impairing the operation or use of the company's property or service, or which will endanger, damage or injure the person or property of the public or employees of the company or city.
Sec. 4. - [Indemnification of city.]
The company shall indemnify the city against, and assume all liabilities for, damages which may arise or accrue to the city for any injury to persons or property from the doing of any work herein authorized, or the neglect of the company or any of its employees to comply with any ordinance regulating the use of the streets of the city, and the acceptance by the company of this ordinance shall be an agreement by it to pay to the city any sum of money for which the city may become liable from or by reason of such injury.
Sec. 5. - [Acceptance.]
The company shall file with the city clerk of the city its acceptance of this ordinance within sixty (60) days from the date when it shall take effect.
Sec. 6. - [Rights and powers of city to regulate use of streets.]
Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed as a surrender by the city of its right or power to pass ordinances regulating the use of its streets.
Sec. 7. - [Term of franchise.]
This ordinance shall be in force for a period of ninety-nine (99) years from and after fifteen (15) days after its final passage.
