CODE OF ORDINANCES CITY OF AVONDALE ESTATES, GEORGIA
____________
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY
____________
Published in 1995 by Order of the Board of Mayor and Commissioners
____________
CURRENT OFFICIALS
of the City of
AVONDALE ESTATES, GEORGIA
____________
Jonathan Elmore, Mayor
Brian Fisher, Mayor Pro Tem
Lionel Laratte
Lisa Shortell
Dee Merriam
Board of Mayor & Commissioners
____________
Patrick Bryant
City Manager
____________
Bob Wilson
City Attorney
____________
Gina Hill
City Clerk
PREFACE
This Code constitutes a complete recodification of the ordinances of the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia, of a general and permanent nature.
Source materials used in the preparation of the Code were the 1973 Code, as supplemented through April 25, 1988, and ordinances subsequently adopted by the board of mayor and commissioners. The source of each section is included in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence of such a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted for the first time with the adoption of the Code. By use of the comparative tables appearing in the back of this Code, the reader can locate any section of the 1973 Code, as supplemented, and any subsequent ordinance included herein.
The chapters of the Code have been conveniently arranged in alphabetical order and the various sections within each chapter have been catchlined to facilitate usage. Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and which refer to relevant state law have been included. A table listing the state law citations and setting forth their location within the Code is included at the back of this Code.
Numbering System
The numbering system used in this Code is the same system used in many state and local government codes. Each section number consists of two component parts separated by a dash, the figure before the dash referring to the chapter number and the figure after the dash referring to the position of the section within the chapter. Thus, the second section of Chapter 2 is numbered 2-1 and the third section of Chapter 4 is 4-3. Under this system, each section is identified with its chapter and at the same time new sections or even whole chapters can be inserted in their proper place simply by using the decimal system for amendments. By way of illustration: if new material consisting of one section that would logically come between sections 6-2 and 6-3 is desired to be added, such new section would be numbered 6-2.1, 6-2.2 and 6-2-3 respectively. New chapters may be included in the same manner. If the new material is to be included between Chapters 8 and 9, it will be designated as Chapter 8.5. Care should be taken that the alphabetical arrangement of chapters is maintained when including new chapters. New articles and new divisions may be included in the same way or, in the case of articles, may be placed at the end of the chapter embracing the subject, and, in the case of divisions, may be placed at the end of the article embracing the subject, the next successive number being assigned to the article or division.
Indexes
The indexes have been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular item has been placed under several headings, some of the headings being couched in lay phraseology, others in legal terminology, and still others in language generally used by local government officials and employees. There are numerous cross references within the indexes themselves which stand as guideposts to direct the user to the particular item in which the user is interested.
Looseleaf Supplements
A special feature of this publication to which the attention of the user is especially directed is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental servicing for the publication. With this system, the publication will be kept up-to-date periodically. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly edited and the appropriate page or pages affected will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to holders of copies of the publication, with instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the obsolete pages.
Successfully keeping this publication up-to-date at all times will depend largely upon the holder of the publication. As revised sheets are received, it will then become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended by the publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be saved and filed for historical reference purposes.
Acknowledgments
This publication was under the direct supervision of B. Meade White, Supervising Editor, of the Municipal Code Corporation, Tallahassee, Florida. Credit is gratefully given to the other members of the publisher's staff for their sincere interest and able assistance throughout the project.
The publisher is most grateful to Mr. A. Joseph Nardone, Jr., City Attorney, and Ms. Phyllis D. Flowers, City Clerk/Treasurer, for their cooperation and assistance during the progress of the work on this publication. It is hoped that their efforts and those of the publisher have resulted in a Code of Ordinances which will make the active law of the city readily accessible to all citizens and which will be a valuable tool in the day-to-day administration of the city's affairs.
EXPAND
MUNICIPAL CODE CORPORATION
Tallahassee, Florida
  ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 867
An Ordinance Adopting and Enacting a New Code of Ordinances for the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia; Providing for the Repeal of Certain Ordinances Not Included Therein; Providing a Penalty for the Violation Thereof; Providing for the Manner of Amending Such Code; and Providing When Such Code and This Ordinance Shall Become Effective.
Be it Ordained by the City of Avondale Estates, as Follows:
Section 1. The document entitled, "Code of Ordinances, City of Avondale Estates, Georgia" published by Municipal Code Corporation, attached hereto, and numbered as follows:
EXPAND
Part I City Charter ..... 1—30
Charter Comparative Table ..... 69
Part II Chapter 1, General Provisions ..... 81—87
Chapter 2, Administration ..... 137—145
Chapter 3, Alcoholic Beverages ..... 195—220
Chapter 4, Animals and Fowl ..... 271—277
Chapter 5,  Buildings; Construction, Maintenance, and Related ..... 327—392
Chapter 6, Emergency Management ..... 443—446
Chapter 7, Court and Criminal Procedure ..... 497—502
Chapter 8, Elections ..... 553—559
Chapter 9, Finance and Taxation ..... 609—615
Chapter 10, Fire Protection and Prevention ..... 665—667
Chapter 11, Health and Sanitation ..... 717—722
Chapter 12,  Miscellaneous Provisions and Offenses ..... 773—783
Chapter 13, Municipal Utilities and Services ..... 833—841
Chapter 14,  Occupation and Business Taxes, Licenses, and Regulations ..... 891—918
Chapter 15, Parks and Recreation ..... 969—972
Chapter 16, Personnel ..... 1019—1021
Chapter 17, Streets and Sidewalks ..... 1071—1080
Chapter 18, Traffic and Vehicles ..... 1131—1147
Chapter 19, Wreckers ..... 1197—1202
Appendix A, Zoning ..... 1403
Appendix B, Subdivision Regulations ..... 1503—1528
Appendix C, Franchises ..... 1629—1644
Code Comparative Tables ..... 1845—1850
State Law Reference Table ..... 1901—1902
Charter Index ..... 1953—1956
Code Index ..... 1957—1993
  is hereby adopted as the City Code for the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia.
Section 2. The document referred to in Section 1 is hereby made public record and shall be maintained by the city clerk as such and be accessible to the members of the general public at City Hall during all normal business hours.
Section 3. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or before January 17, 1994, and not included in the City Code or recognized and continued in force by reference therein, are repealed. The City of Avondale Estates Zoning Ordinance of 1982, as amended and as recognized in Appendix A, is continued in force.
Section 4. The repeal provided for in Section 3 hereof shall not be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance that is repealed by this ordinance.
Section 5. Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every violation of any provision of the City Code or any ordinance, rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment not exceeding six (6) months, or both, or alternative sentencing as provided by law. Each act of violation and each day upon which any such violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to the amendment of any City Code section whether or not such penalty is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance. In addition to the penalty prescribed above, the city may pursue other remedies such as abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief, and revocation of licenses or permits.
Section 6. Additions or amendments to the City Code when passed in the form as to indicate the intention of the Board of Mayor and Commissioners to make the same a part of the City Code shall be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to the Code includes the additions and amendments.
Section 7. Ordinances adopted after January 17, 1994, that amend or refer to ordinances that have been codified in the Code shall be construed as if they amend or refer to like provisions of the Code.
Section 8. This ordinance shall become effective fifteen (15) days after adoption.
First Reading: May 1, 1995
Second Reading: May 22, 1995
Third Reading: June 26, 1995
Adopted this 26 day of June, 1995.
Board of Mayor and Commissioners
Avondale Estates, Georgia
EXPAND
/s/ John W. Lawson
      Mayor
    EXPAND
/s/ John B. Parker
      City Clerk [City Manager]
    Certificate of Adoption
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of the ordinance passed at the regular meeting of the Board of Mayor and Commissioners of the City of Avondale Estates, Georgia, held on the 26th day of June, 1995.
EXPAND
/s/ Kathryn Vessell
      City Clerk
