Chapter 15 - PARKS AND RECREATION

Sec. 15-1. - Lake Avondale—Use restricted.
(a)
All dogs present at Lake Avondale must display a current license and be restrained on a leash held by a person competent to maintain control.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person or dog to swim in Lake Avondale.
(c)
No watercraft shall be allowed in Lake Avondale without the express permission of the city manager.
(Ord. No. 16-08, § 1, 12-12-16)
Sec. 15-2. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 17-01, § adopted April 24, 2017, repealed § 15-2, which pertained to Lake Avondale permit required; regulations and derived from Code 1973, §§ 2-759, 2-760; and Ord. No. 759, § 1, adopted October 28, 1974.
Sec. 15-3. - Willis park and playground.
(a)
Park hours are from 7:00 a.m. until sundown. It shall be unlawful to be present in Willis park outside of such hours.
(b)
All dogs in Willis park must display a current license and be restrained on a leash held by a person competent to maintain control.
(Ord. No. 16-08, § 2, 12-12-16)
Sec. 15-4. - Alcoholic beverages.
No person shall serve, consume, or transport in open containers any alcoholic beverage within a city park or recreation facility, except during city-sponsored events held in a city park or recreation facility for which alcohol has been approved by the city manager, or in parks located within the "entertainment district" boundaries described by section 12-7.1(1).
(Ord. No. O-2021-3, § 5, 6-23-2021)
Sec. 15-5. - Motor vehicles in parks.
No person shall operate a motorized vehicle of any kind or nature in or on any park or other area owned or operated by the city for recreation purposes; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to vehicles used for maintenance purposes by the city.
Sec. 15-6. - Gazebo at Lake Avondale; pavilion at Dartmouth Avenue Park; reservations; fees.
(a)
The city may reserve for a reasonable period of time the gazebo located at Lake Avondale and the picnic pavilion at the park and playground located on Dartmouth Avenue for purposes of group activities of city residents, their children, and guests upon submittal of an application and approval by the city manager or his designee. Use of these areas shall be free to residents and members of their immediate families; nonresidents may only rent the gazebo or pavilion as guests of a resident who shall sign the application as the sponsor. A deposit, in addition to any fee, shall be required for residents and sponsored nonresident guests. Following the group activity, the city manager or his designee shall inspect the location and, provided there is no damage and clean-up of the facilities is satisfactory, the deposit shall be returned. If damage exceeds the deposit, the resident signing the application shall pay for any excess damages upon notice from the city. In the event of a cancellation, refunds for the rental fee, less a processing fee, shall be issued after written notification of the cancellation is received by the city.
(b)
The rental fee for sponsored nonresident guests, amount of deposit for residents and sponsored nonresident guests, and the cancellation processing fee shall be as specified on the application form.
(c)
Rules and regulations pertaining to the use of the gazebo and the pavilion shall be specified on the application form.
