ARTICLE V. - BUILDING NUMBERING

Sec. 5-141. - Designation of street numbers.
Street numbers for dwelling units and places of business on all public streets and street numbers or building numbers for dwelling units and places of business within developments located on private streets shall be assigned by the building official in consultation with the city clerk and the county planning department.
Sec. 5-142. - Assigning numbers; size; when to be erected.
Street numbers will be assigned for all buildings and structures. Numbers must be erected and displayed in front of the project on a board with permanent numbers not smaller than two (2) inches. Numbers must be in place at the beginning of the job before the footing inspection is made and be continuously displayed thereafter until the job is completed and all final inspections have been made.
Sec. 5-143. - Posting.
(a)
Each one-, two-, and three-family residential unit shall have posted and maintained in a conspicuous place on the property, visible from the street providing general public access, the address of such residential unit in figures at least three (3) inches high on a contrasting background.
(b)
All other residential buildings shall have posted and maintained in a conspicuous place on the building, visible from the parking lot or street providing general public access, the address or number of the building in figures at least six (6) inches high on a contrasting background and each individual unit within the building shall be marked on or about its main entrance with the individual unit number and/or address in figures at least three (3) inches high on a contrasting background. In addition to the above, where such residential buildings have more than one (1) exterior entrance, each such entrance shall be marked in figures at least three (3) inches high on contrasting background with the numbers and/or address of each and every individual apartment/unit to which access is provided through that common entrance.
(c)
Each place of business shall have posted and maintained in a conspicuous place on the property, visible from the street providing general public access, the address of the place of business in figures at least three (3) inches high on a contrasting background.
Secs. 5-144—5-160. - Reserved.
