Chapter 14 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
modified
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority of city or county to provide codes, including building, housing, plumbing and electrical codes, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(12); adoption and continuation of state minimum standard codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-21; state-wide application of minimum standard codes, codes requiring adoption by municipality or county, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26; providing of fire escapes by building owners, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50; access to and use of public facilities by physically handicapped persons, O.C.G.A. § 30-3-1 et seq.; authority to repair, close or demolish unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - State minimum standard codes adopted.
All codes specified in or adopted pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20(9)(B) are hereby adopted by reference.
(Code 1992, § 5-1)
State Law reference— Authority to adopt state codes by reference, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25.
Sec. 14-2. - House numbering; residential and commercial buildings.
(a)
The resident and/or owner of each residential building and/or commercial building within the city limits of the city be and are hereby required to place the proper assigned house number on such structures so that they may be read from the street upon which the structure faces. The minimum size of number shall be four inches by one inch.
(b)
All new construction, either residential or commercial, shall be assigned street numbers at the time construction begins.
(Code 1992, § 5-2; Ord. No. 522, 2-20-1996)
Secs. 14-3—14-17. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - GENERAL CONTRACTORS AND BUILDERS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 14-18. - Examining board—Established; membership, vacancies.
There is hereby created for the city a board of general contractors' examiners to be composed of three members and to be known as the general contractors' examining board. The board shall be composed of the city building official and two experienced licensed general contractors residing within the city, both of whom shall be appointed by the mayor. The two contractors so appointed each shall have had at least five years' experience as a licensed general contractor and shall serve for a period of one year. Vacancies occurring by reason of death, resignation or otherwise shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired term.
(Code 1981, § 6-18; Code 1992, § 5-26)
Sec. 14-19. - Same—Organization.
The general contractors' examining board shall organize as soon as practicable and shall select one of its members as chairman. The board shall have the power and authority to adopt rules and regulations for the dispatch of its business.
(Code 1981, § 6-19; Code 1992, § 5-27)
Sec. 14-20. - Examination of contractors required.
Any person desiring to engage in the general contracting business within the city limits shall first file application with the general contractors' examining board, and stand written or oral examination as to his qualifications to engage in such type of work. The board shall keep a record of all examinations, showing the name of the person examined, the date of the examination and the nature and results thereof. All such examinations shall be held and conducted in the office of the city building official. The standards for this examination shall be issued by the mayor and city council upon the recommendation and advice of the examining board of the city.
(Code 1981, § 6-20; Code 1992, § 5-28)
Sec. 14-21. - Certificate of qualification—Issuance, effect.
If an applicant is successful in passing the examination given as required by this article, the general contractors' examining board shall issue to him a certificate of qualification, and he may then make application with the city for a building permit and pay the fee required by the city.
(Code 1981, § 6-21; Code 1992, § 5-29)
Sec. 14-22. - Same—Appeal from denial.
Any applicant whose application for a certificate of qualification is disapproved by the examining board shall have the right to appeal the decision of the examining board to the mayor and city council. The appeal must be made in writing and filed with the city clerk within ten days after notification to the applicant of disapproval. At the next regular meeting of the council, after the expiration of ten days, the applicant shall meet with the mayor and the council to present his protest. A majority of the members of the council voting, providing there is a quorum present, shall have the right to veto the action of the examining board and grant the applicant a certificate of qualification instanter.
(Code 1981, § 6-22; Code 1992, § 5-30)
Sec. 14-23. - Classification, scope of licenses for builders.
(a)
All licenses for builders shall be in the following classifications:
(1)
Classification 1 shall be for residential work only.
(2)
Classification 2 shall be for all commercial work.
(b)
Anyone holding a commercial license may do residential work or construction, but commercial work or building shall not be permitted by a person who holds only a residential license classification. A residential classification license may be obtained without any examination, but upon payment of the prescribed fee.
(Code 1981, § 6-23; Code 1992, § 5-31)
Sec. 14-24. - Public, commercial buildings; prerequisites to work.
(a)
No construction work shall be performed on any public or commercial type building except by a licensed general contractor who has qualified under this article and who complies with the requirements set forth in subsection (b) of this section.
(b)
All general contractors performing construction work on any public or commercial type building, wherein the safety of persons using the city sidewalks, streets or other public facilities might be endangered, shall be required to submit to the city building official the following information prior to obtaining a building permit:
(1)
A certificate of insurance, showing that the contractor is covered by an amount of public liability insurance commensurate with the work being carried on;
(2)
A detailed set of the plans and specifications for the construction work;
(3)
A certificate of qualification issued by the examining board as described in section 14-29.
(c)
The certificate of insurance, the plans and specifications and the certificate of qualification shall be kept on file in the office of the city building official and no building permit shall be issued until the foregoing requirements have been met, except as is otherwise provided in this article.
(Code 1981, § 6-24; Code 1992, § 5-32)
Sec. 14-25. - Exceptions.
The provisions of this article requiring applicants for building permits to be approved by the examining board and to submit a certificate of qualification shall not apply to the following persons:
(1)
Any general contractor who is licensed by the city on July 5, 1960, and who has held such license for a period of two years or more.
(2)
Any general contractor who is licensed by any other city wherein the standards for licensing general contractors are comparable to the standards of this city. Such persons shall only be required to file with the examining board a certificate from the authorities of the city wherein they are licensed, stating that they are licensed as general contractors and are qualified to engage in such type of work.
(3)
Any individual doing construction work on premises owned and occupied by him. Such person shall be issued a permit by the city building official upon making affidavit that he is doing the work on premises owned and occupied by him.
(4)
Any and all persons doing construction work shall be required to comply with the requirements of subsections 14-24(b)(1), (b)(2) and (c) and there shall be no exceptions to such requirement.
(5)
Any construction work on which the contract price does not exceed $500.00.
(Code 1981, § 6-25; Code 1992, § 5-33)
Sec. 14-26. - Performance and payment bond.
Prior to and as a condition for the issuance of a business license and prior to and as a condition for the issuance of any permits by the building department, a contractor shall secure a performance and payment bond as set forth in this section:
PERFORMANCE AND PAYMENT BOND
CITY OF BAINBRIDGE—COUNTY OF DECATUR
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: That We, ________ Principal, and ________ surety, acknowledge ourselves jointly, severally, and firmly bound unto the City of Bainbridge, a municipal corporation, for the use and benefit of the City and/or any person or persons damaged, in the sum of $5,000.00, for the true payment of which we hereby bind ourselves, our heirs, and legal representatives.
Signed, sealed and dated this ________ day of ________, 19________.
THE CONDITION OF THE ABOVE DATED OBLIGATION IS AS FOLLOWS: The Principal having applied for and obtained under authority of the City a permit and license as is evidenced by this bond to engage in the business of ________ during the year ________.
NOW, THEREFORE, The conditions of this obligation is such that if the Principal shall protect the City against all loss or damage occasioned by the negligence of the Principal therein in failing to properly execute and protect all work done by him or his employees, or under his direction or supervision, and from all loss or damage occasioned by or arising in any manner from any such work done by the Principal or his employees or under his direction or supervision, which is not caused by the negligence of the City or its agents or employees; and the Principal herein will keep and observe all ordinances enacted by the City, and without additional cost to the person for whom the work is done, remedy any defects therein due to faulty workmanship and incorrect construction or due to faulty material furnished or used by such Principal and shall reconstruct and repair such work to the satisfaction of the City Building Official of the City of Bainbridge, Georgia, at any time within one year after the construction, repair or installation thereof, and after 48 hours notice from the City Building Official to reconstruct or repair the same; then this bond be void; otherwise in full force and effect.
The term of this bond shall be from ________ to ________ and may be continued from year to year by continuation certificate issued by the surety. If the surety so elects, this bond may be cancelled by giving 30 days' notice in writing to the City of Bainbridge, Georgia, and this bond shall be deemed cancelled at the expiration of 30 days' after such notice has been given, with the surety remaining liable for any act or acts committed up to the date of such cancellation, under the terms of this bond.
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, The Principal and the surety have hereunto set their hands and seals this ________ day of ________, 19________.
EXPAND
_____
Principal
_____
_____
Surety
_____
Attorney in Fact
In the presence of:
_____
  (Code 1981, § 18-114; Code 1992, § 5-34)
Secs. 14-27—14-41. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF CONTRACTOR'S BUSINESS LICENSE[2]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Suspension of, or refusal to restore, licenses and certificates by municipal or county inspection authority, appeals, O.C.G.A. § 43-14-12.

Sec. 14-42. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building official means an official of the city charged with the responsibility of enforcing the city building, plumbing, electrical and mechanical codes.
Contractor means any person doing business in the city of such a nature that requires the issuance of a business license by the city and the issuance of a permit by the building department of the city and whose work is regulated by the city building, electrical, plumbing or mechanical code.
Examining board means an appointed board of the city established for the purpose of determining the qualifications of a contractor to do business in the city.
Licensee means any person operating and doing business under a business license issued by the city.
(Code 1981, § 18-109; Code 1992, § 5-56)
Sec. 14-43. - Grounds for suspension or revocation of license.
The license granted to any contractor by the city may be suspended or revoked for cause. For the purposes of this section, cause shall include but not be limited to the following:
(1)
Charging a fee for work that is not performed;
(2)
False or misleading advertising;
(3)
Negligent performance of work or work that is in willful and intentional violation of the codes of the city.
(Code 1981, § 18-110; Code 1992, § 5-57)
Sec. 14-44. - Investigation of complaints against contractors.
(a)
When any person has reason to believe that a contractor operating under a business license from the city has not performed in accordance with city codes, has charged a fee for work not performed, or has issued false and misleading statements in advertising, such person shall have the right to notify the building official. Upon receiving such notice, either written or oral, the building official shall conduct a thorough investigation.
(b)
In the course of the investigation, the building official may make use of the advice and counsel of architects, engineers or others with sufficient expertise to give a qualified opinion. When a violation, deficiency or condition is determined by the building official to exist, the contractor shall correct the violation, deficiency or condition within 48 hours of receipt of a written notice from the building official.
(Code 1981, § 18-111; Code 1992, § 5-58)
Sec. 14-45. - Authority, procedure of examining board.
(a)
If a contractor fails to comply with the building official's request in the specified period of time, the building official shall request the chairman of the examining board to call a meeting of the board for the purpose of hearing the complaint and evidence against the licensee.
(b)
The licensee shall be notified in writing of the time and place of the hearing so that the licensee may be afforded an opportunity to participate in the proceedings. After weighing the evidence, the examining board shall recommend to the city council that the business license of the contractor be suspended or revoked only if in the determination of the examining board sufficient evidence exists to prove charges made against the licensee.
(c)
If the recommendation of the examining board is for suspension and the city council adopts the recommendation of the examining board, the term of suspension shall be for a period of not less than 90 days commencing from the date of adoption by the city council.
(d)
During the effective period of suspension, no new permits shall be issued by the building department to the licensee. If the recommendation of the examining board is for revocation of a business license, the term of revocation shall be for a period of time not less than one year from the date of adoption of the recommendation by the city council. During the period of revocation, the building department shall not issue any new permits to the licensee.
(Code 1981, § 18-112; Code 1992, § 5-59)
Sec. 14-46. - Appeal to state board of examiners.
If a contractor has a certificate of qualification issued by a board established by the state for issuing such certificates and it is determined that the city council has no jurisdiction to revoke or suspend the contractor's certificate of qualification, the complaint, together with all evidence and the recommendation of the examining board of the city, may be presented to the appropriate examining board of the state for disposition.
(Code 1981, § 18-113; Code 1992, § 5-60)
Secs. 14-47—14-61. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PLUMBING[3]
modified
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Water Well Standards Act of 1985, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-120 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 14-62. - Self-inspection of water and sewer projects; state law.
Pursuant to the authority contained in Section 3 of Act 1046 Georgia Laws of 1996, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26(d) relating to self-inspection of water and sewer projects by master plumbers or utility contractors shall not be applicable within the city.
(Code 1992, § 5-121; Ord. No. 528, § 1, 6-4-1996)
Secs. 14-63—14-77. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - RATE FLOW RESTRICTIONS FOR PLUMBING FIXTURES

Sec. 14-78. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial means any type of building other than residential.
Construction means the erection of a new building or the alteration of an existing building in connection with its repair or renovation or in connection with making an addition to an existing building and shall include the replacement of a malfunctioning, unserviceable, or obsolete faucet, showerhead, toilet, or urinal in an existing building.
Residential means any building or unit of a building intended for occupancy as a dwelling, but shall not include a hotel or motel.
(Code 1992, § 5-141; Ord. No. 489, § 1, 1-15-1991)
Sec. 14-79. - Requirements for residential buildings.
On or after July 1, 1991, no construction may be initiated within the city for any residential building of any type which employs a:
(1)
Gravity tank-type, flushometer-valve, or flushometer-tank toilet that uses more than an average of 1.6 gallons of water per flush; provided, however, this subsection shall not be applicable to one-piece toilets until July 1, 1992;
(2)
Shower head that allows a flow of more than an average of 2.5 gallons of water per minute at 60 pounds per square inch of pressure;
(3)
Urinal that uses more than an average of one gallon of water per flush;
(4)
Lavatory faucet or lavatory replacement aerator that allows a flow of more than two gallons of water per minute; or
(5)
Kitchen faucet or kitchen replacement aerator that allows a flow of more than 2.5 gallons of water per minute.
(Code 1992, § 5-142; Ord. No. 489, § 2, 1-15-1991)
Sec. 14-80. - Requirements for commercial buildings.
On or after July 1, 1992, there shall be no construction initiated within the city of any commercial building of any type which does not meet the requirements of section 14-79 of this division.
(Code 1992, § 5-143; Ord. No. 489, § 3, 1-15-1991)
Sec. 14-81. - Applicability.
The requirements of section 14-79 of this division shall apply to any residential construction initiated after July 1, 1991, and to any commercial construction initiated after July 1, 1992, which involves the repair or renovation of or addition to any existing building when such repair or renovation of or addition to such existing building includes replacement of toilets or showers or both.
(Code 1992, § 5-144; Ord. No. 489, § 4, 1-15-1991)
Sec. 14-82. - Exemptions.
(a)
New construction and the repair or renovation of an existing building shall be exempt from the requirements of sections 14-79, 14-80 and 14-81 of this division when:
(1)
The repair or renovation of the existing building does not include the replacement of the plumbing or sewage system servicing toilets, faucets or showerheads within such existing buildings;
(2)
When such plumbing or sewage system within such existing building, because of its capacity, design, or installation would not function properly if the toilets, faucets or shower heads required by this division were installed;
(3)
Such system is a well or gravity flow from a spring and is owned privately by an individual for use in such individual's personal residence; or
(4)
Units to be installed are:
a.
Specifically designed for use by persons with disabilities;
b.
Specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or installation in a penal institution; or
c.
Toilets for juveniles.
(b)
The owner or his agent of a building undergoing new construction, repair or renovation who is entitled to an exemption as specified in subsection (a)(2), (3) or (4) of this section shall obtain the exemption by applying at the office of the building official for the city. A fee in the amount established by resolution and on file with the city clerk shall be charged for the inspection and issuance of such exemption.
(Code 1992, § 5-145; Ord. No. 489, § 5, 1-15-1991)
Sec. 14-83. - Enforcement; penalty.
This division shall be enforced by the office of the building official of the city. Citations for violations may be issued by the chief building official.
(Code 1992, § 5-146; Ord. No. 489, § 6, 1-15-1991)
ARTICLE IV. - ELECTRICAL

Sec. 14-84. - Exception to National Electrical Code.
The service disconnecting means shall be installed outside of a building or structure.
(Ord. of 4-4-2006)
