Chapter 42 - ROADS AND BRIDGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 30; planning, ch. 38; utilities, ch. 58; land development code, app. A.
State Law reference— Probate court's jurisdiction involving the removal of obstructions from roads, O.C.G.A. § 15-9-30.1; obstructing sidewalks or other public passages, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-43; damaging, injuring or interfering with utilities, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25; Georgia Code of Public Transportation, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-1 et seq.; governmental authorization for construction or maintenance of any private road unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-8; state, county and municipal road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-1 et seq.; county road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-40 et seq.; regulation of maintenance and use of public roads generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1 et seq.; state grants for construction and maintenance of county roads, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-20 et seq.; municipalities may permit enclosure of lanes or alleys, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-11; inspection of and reports on roads and bridges by county police, O.C.G.A. § 36-8-6; authority to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, street lights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 42-1. - Driveway policy.
As of May 15, 2001, the county road department will no longer install residential driveways. All future driveways that are installed, or any other encroachments on county right-of-way must be permitted by the county. Encroachments are defined as:
(1)
Any grading, planting of trees or scrubs;
(2)
Concrete mailboxes, concrete or masonry walls or structures;
(3)
Anything other than the planting of grass or the installation of standard mailboxes as approved by U.S. postal regulations placed on county right-of-way.
Any driveways or encroachments not permitted will be declared illegal and removed at the owner's expense. All encroachments such as masonry mailboxes and walls that existed prior to the adoption of the ordinance from which this section is derived cannot be repaired or replaced without a permit. Such structure shall be removed from a county right-of-way. Applications will be available in the commissioner's office. All permits must be approved before any work is performed. No maintenance or repairs shall be performed by county forces on any new driveways that existed prior to the adoption of the ordinance from which this section is derived. Maintenance may only be performed that is necessary to maintain drainage ditches, shoulders or roads.
(Policy of 5-1-2001)
Secs. 42-2—42-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - UTILITY INSTALLATIONS ON RIGHTS-OF-WAY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Utilities, ch. 58.

Sec. 42-31. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to provide procedures, rules and regulations governing persons who encroach upon county rights-of-way for the purpose of installing and/or maintaining utility lines on, under, over or upon county rights-of-way and to provide for the issuance of permits for that purpose to protect the citizens and the environment and to ensure the public's safety.
(Ord. of 3-5-2002, § 1)
Sec. 42-32. - Exemptions; when permit required.
Work performed by the county, or work performed at its direction and on its behalf, shall not be subject to this article. No other persons shall construct, repair, improve, maintain or install any utility line or facility which in any way encroaches upon a county right-of-way without first securing a permit to conduct such work in the county.
(Ord. of 3-5-2002, § 2)
Sec. 42-33. - State regulations adopted.
The county does hereby adopt the state department of transportation regulations regarding such installations or maintenance currently in effect and as hereafter amended, and does hereby incorporate in this article the regulations regarding other right-of-way encroachments presently in effect in the county as the regulations to govern the permitting of such utility encroachments. Provisions in the DOT regulations which reference the DOT or state employees shall refer to their counterparts at the county level. If there is no counterpart, then the county shall designate the individual or entity to serve in that capacity. If there is any conflict between the DOT regulations and the county regulations, then the more restrictive regulation shall apply. The adoption and incorporation of the DOT regulations in this article specifically includes the general provisions in regard thereto confirming that the issuing of a permit is a revocable license and providing for the full indemnity of the county by the licensee.
(Ord. of 3-5-2002, § 3)
Sec. 42-34. - County to provide appropriate information and forms for encroachments.
The county shall prepare and provide appropriate information, checklists, copies of the applicable general provisions and application and permit forms and general information for those wishing to make such encroachments and shall establish time frames for the submission and consideration thereof consistent with existing county permitting of other encroachments.
(Ord. of 3-5-2002, § 4)
Sec. 42-35. - Violations; penalties.
Any person violating any portion of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, in the magistrates court of the county, shall be punished as provided in section 1-12. However, this section shall not preclude the county from choosing to seek civil redress in a court of competent jurisdiction in addition to the criminal prosecution, it being the intent of the county to have both the civil and criminal rights of prosecution in this area.
(Ord. of 3-5-2002, § 5)
Sec. 42-36. - Enforcement.
The enforcement of this article shall be the responsibility of the person so designated by the county board of commissioners or the sheriff or his designee. The magistrates court of the county shall also be authorized to issue a summons for hearing on alleged violation of this article upon written accusation of any person sui juris alleging such violation.
(Ord. of 3-5-2002, § 6)
Sec. 42-37. - Civil remedies and abatement of nuisance.
If any person violates any provision of this article, the county attorney or other appropriate authority of the county may, in addition to other remedies, institute an action for injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful act or to correct or abate such violation.
(Ord. of 3-5-2002, § 7)
Secs. 42-38—42-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - STREET NAMES AND NUMBERING

Sec. 42-71. - System established.
There is hereby established an official system of street names and street numbering in the county as produced by the Oconee Area Planning and Development Corporation. The Oconee Area Planning and Development Corporation shall produce an official map of the system which upon completion shall be recorded in the minutes of the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 11-4-1980, § 1)
Sec. 42-72. - Changing of street names.
Names of streets and the numbering system established shall remain as shown on the map unless officially changed by specific resolution passed subsequent to the effective date from which this article is derived.
(Res. of 11-4-1980, § 2)
Sec. 42-73. - New streets.
No new streets shall be accepted by the county nor improvements made therein until such streets have been named and numbered in accordance with the manner and method established in this article. If they are extensions of existing streets, the existing names shall be continued and if not extensions, names recorded shall not duplicate or closely approximate street names already assigned.
(Res. of 11-4-1980, § 3)
Sec. 42-74. - County to provide numbers.
The county shall provide for each homeowner a set of appropriate numbers. All persons are urged to post their street number to assist in their location in the event of emergency and by postal and utility workers.
(Res. of 11-4-80, § 4)
Sec. 42-75. - Establishment of official address and street number.
To the extent allowed by law, the system established in this article shall constitute the official address and street number for all law enforcement, civil defense, fire protection and emergency services; for the provision of water and other county services, for all utility companies, and for postal service.
(Res. of 11-4-80, § 5)
