Chapter 103 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Building standards generally, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 103-1. - Sidewalks required.
All new construction within the city, with the exception of individually developed residential lots outside a platted subdivision, shall require the construction of a five-foot concrete sidewalk along the entire length of road frontage. Sidewalks will be constructed on an adequate compacted base and be a minimum of five inches thick. This requirement may be waived by the city council in areas where sidewalk construction is not practical.
(Code 2010, § 6-2-61)
Sec. 103-2. - Underground utilities required.
(a)
All buildings, including residential, commercial and industrial, constructed within the city after March 1, 2005, must be serviced by underground utilities. This includes, but is not limited to, water, sewer, electric, gas, telephone and cable.
(b)
In all applications where the utility crosses a public road, said road shall be bored and cased to the back edge of the city right-of-way. Casing shall be of an adequate size to allow for the future removal and replacement of the utility within the case. To the extent possible multiple utilities shall be located within the same casing.
(c)
A separate bore permit will be required for each bore and must be inspected by the city. The fee for the bore permit shall be as established from time to time by the mayor and council.
(d)
The cost of the bore permit and the bore shall be the responsibility of the builder, developer or property owner and shall not be the responsibility of the city.
(e)
Exceptions and variances may be granted by the city council involving public property.
(Code 2010, § 6-2-71)
Secs. 103-3—103-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BUILDING CODES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— State building code, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 et seq.; application of building and fire codes to existing buildings, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-200 et seq.

Sec. 103-23. - Adoption of state minimum building codes.
The state minimum building codes referenced in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20(9)(b)(I)—(9)(b)(VIII) as now or hereafter modified pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-23 are hereby adopted and made applicable to the city.
(Code 2010, §§ 6-2-1, 6-2-11, 6-2-21, 6-2-31, 6-2-41)
Sec. 103-24. - Electrical permits and inspections.
(a)
Before any electrical wiring, devices or equipment are installed, repaired or altered in any building or structure within the city, the person making the installation, repair or alteration shall obtain a permit therefor.
(b)
Before any permit for electrical work shall he issued under the provisions of this article, the applicant therefore shall pay all required permit fees.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person controlling any electrical wiring in or of houses or buildings within the city to allow any electrical current to be turned on or consumed in any building without having first had an inspection thereof made and a certificate of approval thereof being issued.
(Code 2010, §§ 6-2-13—6-2-15)
Secs. 103-25—103-51. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - BUILDING NUMBERS

Sec. 103-52. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Primary structure means the main building or structure occupying a specific parcel of land. The primary structure would be that building or structure actually meant to be lived in, or occupied for the purpose of conducting business.
(Code 2010, § 3-2-1)
Sec. 103-53. - Display required.
As in many emergency situations, minutes can be the difference between life and death. If addresses are not visible from the road it takes first responders extra time to hunt down the proper home or business, every primary structure within the city limits shall properly affix and display their assigned street number in a manner consistent with this article.
(Code 2010, § 3-2-1)
Sec. 103-54. - Size, specification and placement of numbers.
(a)
Numbers shall contrast the background color or be reflective so they are easy to read. Numbers will be a minimum of three inches in height.
(b)
The street address number must be displayed on the building to the left of the entry door that is most visible from the street in a location that will be clearly visible from the road, day and night. If the numbers are not easily viewed from the road, a mailbox or post at the road will be used to display the address number.
(c)
When a mailbox is used to display the street number the numbers must be affixed in a way that the number is clearly visible even when the arm is in the down position, and the numbers must be placed perpendicular to the road. For the purpose of this article a mailbox may only be used to display the street number if it is a single mailbox.
(d)
If a structure is more than 100 feet from the centerline of the road the address will be placed at or near the driveway of the structure and also to the left of the entry door on the building that is most visible from the street as described in subsection (b) of this section.
(Code 2010, § 3-2-1)
