Chapter 111 - WATERSHED PROTECTION

Sec. 111-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Buffer means a natural or enhanced vegetated area with no or limited minor land disturbances, such as trails and picnic areas, located adjacent to water supply reservoirs or perennial streams within water supply watersheds.
Corridor means all land within the buffer areas established adjacent to perennial streams within water supply watersheds and within other setback areas specified in this chapter.
Impervious surface means a manmade structure or surface that prevents the infiltration of stormwater into the ground below the structure or surface. Examples include, but are not limited to, buildings, roads, driveways, parking lots, decks, swimming pools, and patios.
Large water supply watershed means a watershed containing 100 square miles or more of land within the drainage basin upstream of a governmentally owned public drinking water supply intake.
Perennial stream means a stream that flows throughout the whole year as indicated by a solid blue line on a United States Geological Survey Quadrangle Map.
Small water supply watershed means a watershed that contains less than 100 square miles of land within the drainage basin upstream of a governmentally owned public drinking water supply intake.
Utility means public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, roads, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, stormwater systems and railroads or other utilities identified by a local government.
Water supply watershed means the area of land upstream of a governmental owned public drinking water intake.
Watershed protection map means a map prepared by or for the local jurisdiction which identifies water supply watersheds.
(Code 2010, § 10-4-2)
Sec. 111-2. - The quality of public drinking water supplies must be ensured.
Land-disturbing activities associated with development can increase erosion and sedimentation, which threaten the storage capacity of reservoirs and impair the quality of public drinking water supplies. Stormwater runoff, particularly from impervious surfaces, can introduce toxins, nutrients, and sediments into drinking water supplies, making water treatment more complicated and expensive, and rendering water resources unusable for recreation and other uses. Industrial land uses that involve the manufacture, use, transport, and storage of hazardous or toxic waste materials result in potential risks of contamination of nearby public drinking water supplies. Therefore, land use activities within water supply watersheds must be regulated to ensure that public water supplies remain clean. This chapter establishes standards, consistent with the state department of natural resources' rules for environmental planning criteria for water supply watersheds (Rule 391-3-16-01) to ensure water quality in the watershed system is not compromised by land activities such as grading, septic systems, and accidental release of contaminants. The intent of this chapter is to minimize the transport of pollutants and sediment to the water supply, to maintain the yield of water supply watersheds, and to ensure water can be treated to meet federal and state drinking water standards.
(Code 2010, § 10-4-1)
Sec. 111-3. - Applicability.
This chapter shall apply to all lands within existing and future large water supply watersheds and their immediate surroundings, as shown on the watershed protection map. This chapter does not apply to watersheds not used for public drinking water.
(Code 2010, § 10-4-4)
Sec. 111-4. - Exemptions.
(a)
The following land uses and activities are exempted from compliance with this chapter:
(1)
Land uses existing prior to the adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
(2)
Mining activities permitted by the department of natural resources under the surface mining act.
(b)
If utilities cannot feasibly be located outside the buffer or setback areas required by this chapter, such utility locations can be exempted from the stream corridor buffer and setback area provisions subject to the following conditions:
(1)
The utilities shall be located as far from the stream bank as reasonably possible;
(2)
The installation and maintenance of the utilities shall be such to protect the integrity of the buffer and setback areas as best as reasonably possible; and
(3)
The utilities shall not impair the quality of the drinking water stream.
(c)
Specific forestry and agricultural activities in the stream corridor buffer and setback areas in accordance with the following conditions:
(1)
The activity shall be consistent with best management practices established by the state forestry commission or the state department of agriculture; and
(2)
The activity shall not impair the quality of the drinking water stream.
(Code 2010, § 10-4-5)
Sec. 111-5. - Adoption by reference of watershed protection map.
The watershed protection map, as defined by this chapter is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as if fully set forth herein.
(Code 2010, § 10-4-3)
Sec. 111-6. - Hazardous materials handling facilities.
New facilities which handle hazardous materials of the types listed in section 312 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (excluding underground storage tanks) and amounts of 10,000 pounds or more on any one day, and which will locate in a small water supply watershed or within seven miles upstream of a water supply intake or a water supply reservoir of a large water supply watershed, shall perform their operations on impervious surfaces and in conformance with any applicable federal spill prevention requirements and the requirements of any adopted fire prevention code.
(Code 2010, § 10-4-6)
Sec. 111-7. - Sanitary landfills prohibited.
The mayor and city council have found after extensive investigation and research that the city relies on the underground aquifer as the major source of drinking water supply. Further, the mayor and council find that the presence of any sanitary landfill within the corporate limits of the city will introduce toxins and other contaminants into the city water supply rendering the underground aquifer unusable for public drinking water supplies. Therefore, sanitary landfills shall not be permitted within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 2010, § 10-4-7)
Sec. 111-8. - Additional information requirements for development on buffer zone properties.
Any permit applications for property requiring buffers and setbacks hereunder must include the following:
(1)
A site plan showing:
a.
The location of all streams on the property;
b.
Limits of required stream buffers and setbacks on the property;
c.
Buffer zone topography with contour lines at no greater than five-foot contour intervals;
d.
Delineation of forested and open areas in the buffer zone;
e.
Detailed plans of all proposed land development in the buffer and of all proposed impervious cover within the setback;
f.
A description of all proposed land development within the buffer and setback; and
g.
Any other documentation that the (review and permitting authority) may reasonably deem necessary for review of the application and to ensure that the buffer zone ordinance is addressed in the approval process.
(2)
All buffer and setback areas must be recorded on the final plat of the property following plan approval.
(Code 2010, § 10-10-7)
