[AMENDMENT]
AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE CODE OF THE CITY OF BALL GROUND, GEORGIA, AS AMENDED, TO AMEND DIVISION 104, DISTRICT STANDARDS AND PERMITTED USES OF THE CITY OF BALL GROUND COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT CODE, TO INCREASE THE PROVISION OF ZONING DISTRICTS; TO ENHANCE THE FLEXIBILITY OF ZONING AND USES; TO PROVIDE FOR THE PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELFARE OF THE CITY OF BALL GROUND, GEORGIA; TO PROVIDE FOR SEVERABILITY; TO REPEAL CONFLICTING ORDINANCES; TO PROVIDE AN EFFECTIVE DATE; AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES.
BE IT AND IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED by the Mayor and Council of the City of Ball Ground, Georgia, and by the authority thereof:

Sec. 1.
That division 104 of the Comprehensive Development Code of the City of Ball Ground, Georgia, as amended, is hereby further amended by inserting the following zoning district uses and regulations of the Cherokee County Zoning Ordinance, article 7, adopted by the Cherokee County Board of Commissioners, as now written and as may be amended in later editions, are adopted and incorporated by reference:
General agricultural district (AG). The purpose of this district is to maintain the integrity of agricultural activities predominate in the rural area of Cherokee County. The regulations are to discourage the subdivision of land for urban development and to encourage the maintenance of the general rural characteristics of openness, low density residential use, appropriate agribusiness and extensive agricultural and livestock production (Ref: Cherokee County Zoning Ordinance, Article 7, 7.1-1).
Estate residential district (R-80, R-60). The purpose of this district is to permit residential development in those areas that are expected to become more nearly urban in character. The areas involved are generally in transition from agricultural to residential development and are considered appropriate for low density residential development (Ref: Cherokee County Zoning Ordinance, Article 7, 7.1-2).
Single-family residential districts (R-30). The purpose of these residential districts is to enable residential development of a low density urban character. The regulations are designed to permit and encourage residential development in areas where urbanization is taking place (REF: Cherokee County Zoning Ordinance, Article 7, 7.1-3).
Single-family residential (R-15, RD-3, RZL- Zero-Lot Line Residential). The purpose of these residential districts is to permit and encourage development of high density single-family residential uses in a moderately spacious surrounding. These development districts shall be served with an approved community water system and a central sewerage system (Ref: Cherokee County Zoning Ordinance, Article 7, 7.1-5).
Single-family attached residential districts (RA, RTH). The purpose of this district is to provide for intermediate housing types and densities between single-family detached and multi-family dwellings. Such development may include duplexes, triplexes, quadruplexes or townhouses to be located in the urban portion or suburban portion of the county where apartment buildings would not be compatible. Innovative design with cluster development is encouraged. Such development districts are intended to be served with central sewerage system except for lot sizes exceeding 20,000 square feet (Ref: Cherokee County Zoning Ordinance, Article 7, 7.1-6).
Multi-family residential district (RM-10, RM-16). The purpose of the residential districts is to permit development of high density multi-family residential dwellings. These zoning districts are to be located where public water supply and sewerage facilities are available or can be obtained and where there is convenient access to collector streets or major thoroughfares. The use of these districts can be developed as a transition zone between residential districts and commercial districts (Ref: Cherokee County Zoning Ordinance, Article 7, 7.1-7).
Highway commercial district (HC). The purpose of this district is to provide an area for commercial uses, which require a location to be accessible to major highways and arterial roadways. Districts are located at major intersections of these highways. Development should be limited to the needs of the traveling public (Ref: Cherokee County Zoning Ordinance, Article 7, 7.1-12).
Office distribution district (OD). The purpose of this district is to provide appropriate locations for offices with related warehouse operations and distribution facilities, but not involving the manufacturing, fabrication, repair or servicing of any commodity or product. Light appliance and electronic equipment repair and assembly is allowed. Limited retail sales may be permitted if accessory to a major use. This district should be accessible to principal or major arterial. Buffer zones with landscaping are required to ensure the compatibility of operating activities with the surrounding area (Ref: Cherokee County Zoning Ordinance, Article 7, 7.1-13).
Heavy industrial district (HI). The purpose of this district is to provide suitable areas for industrial operations of all types. This district should be accessible to railroads and major highways. Residential and retail uses are prohibited. The district is separated from residential districts by natural barriers wherever possible and buffer zones in other cases (Ref: Cherokee County Zoning Ordinance, Article 7, 7.1-15).
Planned industrial development (PID). The Planned Industrial District is a floating district which may be located in any light industrial area if it meets all the standards for planned industrial activities. The purpose of this district is to provide flexible use and coordinated development of light industries, warehouse processing, sales, offices and limited service activities within a well-planned environment. This district should be accessible to a major arterial. A concept plan is required before a development permit is granted to ensure compatibility of the proposed development with the surrounding area. Districts are located in areas which do not create public nuisances or endanger public health, safety or the general welfare (Ref: Cherokee County Zoning Ordinance, Article 7, 7.1-16).
For the additional regulations, standards, and dimensional requirements that exclusively govern the AG, R-80, R-60, R-30, R-15, RD-3, RZL, RA, RTH, RM-10, RM-16, HC, OD, HI, and PID Zoning Districts, please see Appendix A and the Cherokee County Zoning Ordinance, adopted by reference, now and as amended.
Permitted uses in the AG, R-30 and R-15 Zoning Districts shall also be governed by Division 104 of the City of Ball Ground Comprehensive Development Code, where applicable with the more restrictive description taking authority.
Sec. 3.
That the Comprehensive Development Code of the City of Ball Ground, Georgia, as amended, is hereby further amended by creating, "Appendix A" which incorporates by reference, articles 6 & 7 of the Cherokee County Zoning Ordinance in its entirety, adopted by the Cherokee County Board of Commissioners, as now written and as may be amended in later editions, for the exclusive and sole purpose of regulating the standards, uses, and dimensional requirements of the AG, R-80, R-60, R-30, R-15, RD-3, RZL, RA, RTH, RM-10, RM-16, HC, OD, HI, and PID zoning districts.
Sec. 4.
The Cherokee County Zoning Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference, in its entirety, as now written and as may be amended in later editions by the Cherokee County Board of Commissioners, for the exclusive and sole purpose of regulating the following zoning districts: AG, R-80, R-60, R-30, R-15, RD-3, RZL, RA, RTH, RM-10, RM-16., HC, OD, HI, and PID zoning districts.
Sec. 5.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or any portion of this ordinance be declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court or competent jurisdiction or if the provisions of any part of this ordinance as applied to any particular situation or set of circumstances shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity shall not be construed to affect the portions of this ordinance not so held to be invalid. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the city council to provide for separable and divisible parts and he does hereby adopt any and all parts hereof as may not be held invalid for any reason.
Sec. 6.
This ordinance shall become effective immediately upon approval by the mayor and council.
