Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 2-1—2-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-19. - Compensation; expenses.
The mayor shall be compensated at the rate of $300.00 per month and each councilmember shall be compensated at the rate of $25.00 per meeting, with a maximum of $50.00 per month. The mayor and council shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the exercise of official duties.
(Code 2010, § 2-1-1)
Secs. 2-20—2-41. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MEETINGS

Sec. 2-42. - Regular meetings.
Regular meetings of the mayor and council are held at the city hall or at such other place as may be designated, on the second Thursday of each month at 7:00 p.m.
(Code 2010, § 2-1-11)
Sec. 2-43. - Adjourned meetings.
If a quorum shall fail to attend any regular or special meeting of the mayor and council or if for any reason any meeting shall fail to complete transactions or business during a meeting, the meeting may be adjourned to any date prior to the next regular meeting agreed upon by a majority of the members present.
(Code 2010, § 2-1-12)
Sec. 2-44. - Previous questions.
The previous questions may be called at any time by a majority of the members present. The ayes and nays may be called for by any member.
(Code 2010, § 2-1-15)
Sec. 2-45. - Motions having precedence.
When a question is under consideration no motion shall be received except as follows to:
(1)
Lay on the table;
(2)
Postpone to a time certain;
(3)
Postpone indefinitely;
(4)
Refer to a committee;
(5)
Amend;
(6)
Strike out or insert; or
(7)
Divide.
Motions for any of these purposes shall have precedence in the order named.
(Code 2010, § 2-1-16)
Sec. 2-46. - Motion to adjourn.
A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and shall be decided without debate.
(Code 2010, § 2-1-17)
Secs. 2-47—2-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-66. - City clerk; duties.
In addition to the duties of the city clerk under the city Charter, the city clerk shall perform the following duties:
(1)
Be the custodian of the city seal and affix its impression on documents whenever required;
(2)
Preserve the codes, records and documents belonging to the city and maintain a proper index to all records and documents;
(3)
Perform any other duties as may be required by the mayor and council.
(Code 2010, § 2-4-1)
State Law reference— Municipal clerk training, O.C.G.A. § 36-45-20.
Sec. 2-67. - City attorney; duties.
The city attorney shall be the legal advisor and representative of the city and in that capacity shall:
(1)
Prepare ordinances when so requested by the mayor and council;
(2)
Prepare for execution all contracts and instruments to which the city is a party when so requested and approve, as to form, all ordinances, bonds and city contracts; and render any other legal services as may he required by the mayor and council.
(Code 2010, § 2-4-2)
Secs. 2-68—2-92. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CODE OF ETHICS

Sec. 2-93. - Definitions.
Solely for the purpose of this code of ethics:
City official orofficial, unless otherwise expressly defined does not include city employees but does mean the mayor, members of the city council, municipal court judges (including substitute judges), city manager, city clerk, city attorney, and all other persons holding positions designated by the city Charter, as amended. The term "city official" also includes all individuals, including city employees, appointed by the mayor and/or city council as appropriate to city authorities, commissions, committees, boards, task forces, or other bodies, which can or may vote or take formal action or make official recommendations to the mayor and/or city council.
Decision means any ordinance, resolution, contract, franchise, formal action or other matter voted on by the city council or other city board or commission, as well as the discussions or deliberations of the council, board, or commission, which can or may lead to a vote or formal action by that body.
Employee means any person who is a full-time or part-time employee of the city.
Immediate family means the spouse, mother, father, grandparent, brother, sister, son or daughter of any city official related by blood, adoption or marriage. The relationship by marriage shall include in-laws.
Incidental interest means an interest in a person, entity or property which is not a substantial interest as defined herein and which has insignificant value.
Remote interest means an interest of a person or entity, including a city official, which would be affected in the same way as the public. For example, the interest of an official in the property tax rate, general city fees, city utility charges or a comprehensive zoning ordinance or similar matters is deemed remote to the extent that the official would be affected in common with the general public.
Substantial interest means an interest, either directly or through a member of the immediate family, in another person or entity, where:
(1)
The interest is ownership of five percent or more of the voting stock, shares or equity of the entity or ownership of $5,000.00 or more of the equity or market value of the entity;
(2)
The funds received by the person from the other person or entity during the previous 12 months either equal or exceed:
a.
$5,000.00 in salary, bonuses, commissions or professional fees, or $5,000.00 in payment for goods, products or services; or
b.
Ten percent of the recipient's gross income during that period, whichever is less;
(3)
The person serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of directors or other governing board of a for-profit entity other than a corporate entity owned or created by the city council; or
(4)
The person is a creditor, debtor, or guarantor of the other person or entity in an amount of $5,000.00 or more.
(Code 2010, § 2-8-3; Ord. of 12-12-2011, § 1)
Sec. 2-94. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this division is subject to:
(1)
Public reprimand or censure by the city council; or
(2)
Request for resignation by the city council.
(Code 2010, § 2-8-11; Ord. of 12-12-2011, § 1)
Sec. 2-95. - Purpose.
The purpose of this code of ethics is to:
(1)
Encourage high ethical standards in official conduct by city officials;
(2)
Establish guidelines for ethical standards of conduct for all such officials by setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible with the interest of the city;
(3)
Require disclosure by such officials of private financial or other interest in matters affecting the city; and
(4)
Serve as a basis for disciplining those who refuse to abide by its terms.
(Code 2010, § 2-8-1; Ord. of 12-12-2011, § 1)
Sec. 2-96. - Scope.
(a)
The provisions of this code of ethics shall be applicable to all elected or appointed city officials.
(b)
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, state law and the Charter of the city shall be controlling in the event of an actual conflict with the provisions of this code of ethics. This division shall be interpreted to supplement, and not replace, said provisions of state law and the Charter.
(Code 2010, § 2-8-2; Ord. of 12-12-2011, § 1)
Sec. 2-97. - Prohibitions.
(a)
No city official shall use such position to secure special privileges or exemptions for him or herself or others, or to secure confidential information for any purpose other than official duties on behalf of the city.
(b)
No city official, in any matter before the council or other city body, relating to a person or entity in which the official has a substantial interest, shall fail to disclose for the record such interest prior to any discussion or vote or fail to recuse himself from such discussion or vote as applicable.
(c)
No city official shall act as an agent or attorney for another in any matter before the city council or other city body.
(d)
No city official shall directly or indirectly receive, or agree to receive, any compensation, gift, reward, or gratuity in any matter or proceeding connected with, or related to, the duties of his office except as may be provided by law.
(e)
No city official shall enter into any contract with, or have any interest in, either directly or indirectly, the city except as authorized by state law.
(f)
This prohibition shall not be applicable to the professional activities of the city attorney in his work as an independent contractor and legal advisor on behalf of the city.
(g)
This prohibition shall not be applicable to an otherwise valid employment contract between the city and a city official who is not elected (such as, by way of example, a city manager, city administrator or chief of police).
(h)
Any official who has a proprietary interest in an agency doing business with the city shall make that interest known in writing to the city council and the city clerk.
(i)
All public funds shall be used for the general welfare of the people and not for personal economic gain.
(j)
Public property shall be disposed of in accordance with state law.
(k)
No city official shall solicit or accept other employment to be performed, or compensation to be received, while still a city official if the employment or compensation could reasonably be expected to impair such official's judgment or performance of city duties.
(l)
If a city official accepts or is soliciting a promise of future employment from any person or entity who has a substantial interest in a person, entity or property which would be affected by any decision upon which the official might reasonably be expected to act, investigate, advise, or make a recommendation, the official shall disclose the fact to the city council and shall recuse himself/herself and take no further action on matters regarding the potential future employer.
(m)
No city official shall use city facilities, personnel, equipment or supplies for private purposes, except to the extent such are lawfully available to the public.
(n)
No city official shall grant or make available to any person any consideration, treatment, advantage or favor beyond that which it is the general practice to grant or make available to the public at large.
(o)
A city official shall not directly or indirectly make use of, or permit others to make use of, official information not made available to the general public for the purpose of furthering a private interest.
(p)
A city official shall not use his position in any way to coerce, or give the appearance of coercing, another person to provide any financial benefit to such official or persons within the official's immediate family, or those with whom the official has business or financial ties amounting to a substantial interest.
(q)
A city official shall not order any goods and services for the city without prior official authorization for such an expenditure. No city official shall attempt to obligate the city nor give the impression of obligating the city without proper prior authorization.
(r)
No city official shall draw travel funds or per diem from the city for attendance at meetings, seminars, training or other educational events and fail to attend such events without promptly reimbursing the city therefore.
(s)
No city official shall attempt to unduly influence the outcome of a case before the municipal court nor shall any city official engage in ex parte communication with a municipal court judge on any matter pending before the municipal court.
(Code 2010, § 2-8-4; Ord. of 12-12-2011, § 1)
Sec. 2-98. - Conflict of interest.
(a)
A city official may not participate in a vote or decision on a matter affecting an immediate family member or any person, entity, or property in which the official has a substantial interest.
(b)
A city official who serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of directors of a nonprofit entity must disclose their interest in said entity to the mayor and council prior to participating in a vote or decision regarding funding of the entity by or through the city.
(c)
Where the interest of a city official in the subject matter of a vote or decision is remote or incidental, the city official may participate in the vote or decision and need not disclose the interest.
(Code 2010, § 2-8-5; Ord. of 12-12-2011, § 1)
Sec. 2-99. - Board of ethics.
The municipal court shall hear and render decisions on all proper verified complaints filed under this division.
(Code 2010, § 2-8-6; Ord. of 12-12-2011, § 1)
Sec. 2-100. - Receipt of complaints.
(a)
All complaints against city officials shall be filed with the clerk of the municipal court. Upon receipt of a complaint in proper form, the municipal court clerk shall forward a copy of the complaint to the city official or officials charged in the complaint within no more than seven calendar days.
(b)
All complaints shall be submitted and signed under oath, shall be legibly drawn and shall clearly address matters within the scope of this division.
(c)
Upon receipt of a complaint in proper form, the municipal court shall review it to determine whether the complaint is unjustified, frivolous, patently unfounded or fails to state facts sufficient to invoke the disciplinary jurisdiction of the city council. The municipal court is empowered to dismiss in writing complaints that it determines are unjustified, frivolous, patently unfounded or fail to state facts sufficient to invoke the disciplinary jurisdiction of the city council; provided, however, that a rejection of such complaint by the municipal court shall not deprive the complaining party of any action such party might otherwise have at law or in equity against the city official. For complaints that are not dismissed, the municipal court is empowered to collect evidence and information concerning any complaint and add the findings and results of its investigations to the file containing such complaint.
(d)
Upon completion of its investigation of a complaint, the municipal court is empowered to dismiss in writing those complaints which it determines are unjustified, frivolous, patently unfounded or which fail to state facts sufficient to invoke the disciplinary jurisdiction of the city council; provided, however, that a rejection of such complaint by the municipal court shall not deprive the complaining party of any action such party might otherwise have at law or in equity against the city official.
(e)
The municipal court is empowered to conduct investigations, to take evidence, and to hold hearings to address the subject matter of a complaint.
(f)
The municipal court is empowered to adopt forms for formal complaints, notices, and any other necessary or desirable documents within its jurisdiction where the city council has not prescribed such forms.
(g)
Findings of the municipal court shall be submitted to the city council for action.
(h)
To discourage the filing of ethics complaints solely for political purposes, complaints will not be accepted against a person seeking election as a city official, whether currently serving as a city official or not, from the date qualifying opens for the elected office at issue through the date the election results for that office are certified. The time for filing complaints will not run during this period. Properly filed complaints will be accepted and processed after the election results have been certified.
(Code 2010, § 2-8-7; Ord. of 12-12-2011, § 1)
Sec. 2-101. - Service of complaint.
The municipal court clerk as appointed herein set forth shall cause the complaint to be served on the city official charged as soon as practicable but in no event later than seven calendar days after receipt of a proper, verified complaint. Service may be by personal service, by certified mail, return receipt requested or by statutory overnight delivery. A hearing shall be held within 60 calendar days after filing of the complaint. The municipal court shall conduct hearings in accordance with the procedures and regulations it establishes but, in all circumstances, at least one hearing shall include the taking of testimony and the cross-examination of available witnesses. The decision of the municipal court shall be rendered to mayor and council within seven calendar days after completion of the final hearing. At any hearing held by the municipal court, the city official who is the subject of inquiry shall have the right to written notice of the hearing and the allegations at least seven calendar days before the first hearing, to be represented by counsel, to hear and examine the evidence and witnesses and, to oppose or try to mitigate the allegations. The city official subject to the inquiry shall also have the right but not the obligation of submitting evidence and calling witnesses. Failure to comply with any of time deadlines in this section shall not invalidate any otherwise valid complaint or in any way affect the power or jurisdiction of the municipal court or the city council to act upon any complaint.
(Code 2010, § 2-8-9; Ord. of 12-12-2011, § 1)
Sec. 2-102. - Right to appeal.
(a)
Any city official or complainant adversely affected by the findings or recommendations of the municipal court may obtain judicial review of such decision as provided in this section.
(b)
An action for judicial review may be commenced by filing an application for a writ of certiorari in the county superior court within 30 days after the decision of the municipal court. The filing of such application shall act as supersedes.
(Code 2010, § 2-8-10; Ord. of 12-12-2011, § 1)
State Law reference— Code of ethics for governmental service, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1; conflicts of interest, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-10 et seq.
Secs. 2-103—2-132. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - FINANCE

Sec. 2-133. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city shall commence on July 1 and end on June 30 of each year.
(Code 2010, § 2-5-1)
State Law reference— Fiscal year required, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1.
Sec. 2-134. - Purchasing.
The finance director shall be the purchasing agent of the city, and shall:
(1)
Arrange and negotiate the purchase or contract for all equipment, supplies and contractual services for the city, and sell or otherwise dispose of all surplus city equipment and supplies; and
(2)
Maintain an inventory of all materials, supplies or equipment owned by the city.
(Code 2010, § 2-5-3)
Secs. 2-135—2-151. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-152—2-170. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - TREE BOARD

Sec. 2-171. - Established.
There is hereby established a tree board for the city to develop and administer a comprehensive community tree management program for the care of trees located on public property within the city.
(Code 2010, § 2-6-1)
Sec. 2-172. - Membership.
The board shall be composed of five members. Three members shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the city council. The acting president of the Ball Ground Garden Club and the mayor of the city shall be standing members of the tree board.
(Code 2010, § 2-6-2)
Sec. 2-173. - Meeting and policy.
The board shall meet at times convenient to its members, but in no event shall the board meet less than once a quarter. At such meeting, the board will formulate annually a comprehensive plan for the conservation of trees located within the city. Said plan shall be submitted to the mayor and city council for their approval prior to implementation.
(Code 2010, § 2-6-3)
Secs. 2-174—2-193. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Downtown Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-194. - Declaration of need for downtown development authority.
The mayor and city council declare that there is a need for a downtown development authority to be activated in the city in order to further the essential public purposes of revitalizing and redeveloping its central business district by creating a climate favorable to both the location of new industry, trade, and commerce and to the development of existing industry, trade, and commerce by financing projects under the act that will develop and promote trade, industry, commerce, and employment opportunities and by exercising its powers under the act to aide the accomplishment of the aforesaid public welfare objectives of the act.
(Code 2010, § 6-7-1)
Sec. 2-195. - District defined.
After careful consideration of the economic needs of the city, and of its citizens, and after careful assessment of special developmental needs of the city due to the relatively small area encompassed by its boundaries, and finally out of a desire to promote the revitalization and prosperity of the city so that the city may continue to be a center of industry, trade, and commerce within the state, the city council having used its discretion and reasonable judgment as authorized by the act hereby declares that said authority hereby created shall have authority to act within the geographical area within the city limits described as follows: All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the city and being more particularly described on the map attached hereto, incorporated herein as exhibit "A".
(Code 2010, § 6-7-2)
