Chapter 86 - UTILITIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 34; floods, ch. 42; health and sanitation, ch. 46; manufactured homes, ch. 50; planning, ch. 58; roads and bridges, ch. 62; solid waste, ch. 70; subdivisions, ch. 74.
State Law reference— Authority to provide stormwater, sewerage collection and disposal systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(6); authority to provide sewage collection and disposal systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(6); authority to provide for the development storage and distribution of water, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(7); water resources, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-1 et seq.; waterwell standards, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-120 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 86-1. - Water line extensions.
(a)
Any public or private waterworks company must request approval of the board of commissioners, designating by clearly defined drawings the area wherein they desire to run or extend water lines in the unincorporated limits of the county, before any construction shall commence.
(b)
Any person, company or other public body who violates the provisions of the section shall upon conviction be punished as provided in section 1-11 and may be required to disconnect any water lines installed in violation of this section in the county.
(c)
The probate court shall have power and authority to impose fines and to determine if any lines should be disconnected pursuant to this section.
(Res. No. 83-7, 12-6-1983)
Sec. 86-2. - Not to serve any customers in Hall County out of the Banks County water line on West County Line Road.
In consideration of Hall County's approval for Banks County to cross into Hall County's service area for the installation of a water line along West County Line Road, located on the border between Hall County and Banks County, Banks County will not serve any customers who reside in Hall County from the water line located along West County Line Road.
(Res. No. 2003-01, § 1, 2-7-2003)
Secs. 86-3—86-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SEWER USE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Dumping certain wastes in storm or sanitary sewers prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-2.

Sec. 86-31. - Definitions.
(a)
Terms defined. When used in this article the following words and terms shall be interpreted as follows:
The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the singular number shall include the plural and those in the plural number shall include the singular.
Terms not defined in this resolution shall have their customary dictionary definitions unless the context indicates otherwise.
(b)
Specific definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
BOD (denoting biochemical oxygen demand) means the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at 20 degrees Celsius, expressed in parts per million by weight.
Building drain means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge from pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the existing sewer, ending five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
Building sewer means the extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
Engineer means the engineer of the county water and sewerage department.
Garbage means solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
Industrial wastes means the liquid wastes from industrial process as distinct from sanitary sewage.
Natural outlet means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or body of surface or ground water.
Person means any human being, firm, society, corporation, or other legal entity.
pH means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
Properly shredded garbage means garbage that has been shredded to such degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
Public sewer means a sewer in which owners of abutting properties have access and which is controlled by public authority.
Sanitary sewer means a sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwaters, surface waters, and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
Sewage treatment plant means any arrangement of devices and structures used for treating sewage.
Sewage works means all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
Sewer means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
Storm sewer and storm drain mean a sewer which carries stormwaters and surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes.
Suspended solids means solids that either float on the surface of or are in suspension in liquids and which are removable by laboratory filtering.
Watercourse means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Res. No. 98-3, ch. I, art. II, 3-10-1998)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 86-32. - Deposit of excrement or garbage prohibited; exception.
No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited upon public or private property within the unincorporated area of the county, any human or animal excrement or garbage except in the sanitary landfill area operated by the county, provided that the deposit of animal excrement in the course of a farming, livestock, or agricultural operation shall not be a violation of this section.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 2-1.1, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-33. - Liquid waste disposal.
No person shall discharge upon the ground or into any natural outlet within the unincorporated area of the county any suspended solid or garbage, sanitary sewage, industrial wastes or other liquid, except when suitable treatment has been provided and approved by the county board of health or its authorized agent, provided, that no such discharge shall exceed the criteria for suspended solids and other pollutants, temperature, etc., set forth in this article.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 2-2.1, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-34. - Sewage connection mandatory.
The owners of all buildings situated within the unincorporated area of the county and abutting on any street, alley, right-of-way, or other area in which there is located now or in the future a public sanitary sewer shall install toilet facilities therein and connect such facilities directly with the public sewer within 60 days after official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is located within 100 feet of the property line. Such official notice shall be in writing and shall be signed by the department head of the county water and sewerage department. The water and sewerage department may grant an extension of this 60-day requirement not to exceed one year in length. No more than three such extensions totaling in the aggregate three years may be granted by the county water and sewerage department.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 2-3.1, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-35. - Application for extension of time to connect.
No such extension can be granted unless proper application is made by the owner in writing to the water and sewerage department on a form to be furnished by the water and sewerage department.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 2-3.2, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-36. - Grant of extension.
An extension may be granted only upon a finding by the water and sewerage department that connection to the public sewer is not possible because of the financial condition of the owner.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 2-3.3, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-37. - Certification for extension.
(a)
No extension shall be granted without certification in writing from the planning department that the property in question contains the minimum square footage required by the particular use district.
(b)
No extension shall be granted unless and until written certification is received from the county board of health or its authorized agent that any individual sewage disposal system on the subject property complies with all local and statewide laws and regulations.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 2-3.4, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-38. - Revocation of extension.
An extension may be revoked by the water and sewerage department at any time.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 2-3.6, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-39. - Disconnection and abandonment of individual sewage disposal system upon connection to public sewer.
When connection is made to the public sewer system, any septic tank, cesspools, and other individual sewage disposal facilities on the premises shall be disconnected and abandoned and the owner shall fill those structures with suitable material approved by the planning department and after issuance of the proper permit. Such disconnection, abandonment, and filling must be completed within 120 days of connection to the public sewer system.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 2-3.7, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-40. - Prohibited discharge of drainage waters.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 3-1.1, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-41. - Prohibited connections.
No connection of combined sewers, i.e., sanitary sewer and storm sewer or storm drain, shall be made to the public sewer system.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 3-1.2, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-42. - Discharge of stormwater, unpolluted drainage and industrial cooling water.
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated for storm waters, or to a natural outlet approved by the county board of health. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon approval of the state environmental protection division, to a storm sewer, or natural outlet.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 3-1.3, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-43. - Prohibited discharges.
Except as provided in this article, no person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
(1)
Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, motor oil, mineral spirits, commercial solvent, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas;
(2)
Waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process or to constitute a hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
(3)
Waters or wastes having pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 8.5 or having other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works;
(4)
Water or wastes that contain more than ten parts per million, by weight, of the following gases: hydrogen sulfide, sulfur dioxide, or nitrous oxide;
(5)
Ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, straw shavings, metal, ground paper products, glass, rags, feathers, offal, plastics, wood, paunch, manure, hair, and fleshings, entrails, lime slurry, lime residues, beer or distillery slops, chemical residues, paint or ink residues, cannery waste, bulk solids, or other solid or viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the proper operation of the sewage works; and
(6)
Wastes from hospitals containing radioactive materials and high BOD wastes from funeral parlors or other embalming facilities, milk and milk products processing plants, slaughter houses and similar industries or contributing waste products difficult to treat and assimilate in the receiving stream.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 3-2.1, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-44. - Specific discharge limitations.
(a)
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, the following described substances, materials, water or wastes if it is determined by the water and sewerage department that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. In making such determination, the water and sewerage department will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewers and other pertinent factors. The following substances listed in subsection (a)(1)—(11) of this section shall not be discharged into any public sewer without a written permit from the water and sewerage department:
(1)
Liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150 degrees Fahrenheit (65 degrees Celsius);
(2)
Water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150 degrees Fahrenheit (0 and 65 degrees Celsius);
(3)
Garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths horsepower (1.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the water and sewerage department;
(4)
Waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
(5)
Waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes found by the water and sewage department to exert an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree than any such material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the water and sewerage department for such materials, provided that in no event shall the following limits be exceeded:
Fixed Upper Limits for Constituents (Parts per Million by Weight)
EXPAND
Cadmium 5.0
Chromium 3.0
Copper 3.0
Cyanide 0.0
Nickel 0.1
Silver 5.0
Tin 5.0
Zinc 3.0
Phenol 0.5
  (6)
Waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be established by the water and sewerage department, state, federal, or other public agencies or jurisdictions;
(7)
Noxious or malodorous gas or substance, capable of creating a public nuisance, or hazard to life, or preventing entry into sewers for their maintenance, inspection, and repair;
(8)
Waters containing quantities of radium, naturally occurring, or artificially produced radioisotopes, in excess of presently existing or subsequently accepted limits for drinking water as established by the National Committee on Radiation Protection and Measuring;
(9)
Waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 8.5;
(10)
Materials which exert or cause:
a.
Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
b.
Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions); or
c.
Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works; and
(11)
Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to treatment processes employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge to the receiving waters.
(b)
The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand in excess of 300 parts per million by weight on a 24-hour composite basis, or having a BOD solids content for any sample period greater than five times the average influent value recorded at the affected sewage treatment plant during the previous calendar year, will be subject to review by the water and sewerage department. Where necessary in the opinion of the water and sewerage department, the owner shall provide and operate, at his own expense, such pretreatment as may be required to reduce the biochemical oxygen demand, pH, total solids, discoloration, toxic metals, etc., to meet the above requirements.
(c)
The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having a suspended solids content in excess of 350 parts per million by weight on a 24-hour composite basis or having a suspended solids content for any sample period greater than five times the average influent value recorded at the affected sewage treatment plant during the previous calendar year, will be subject to review by the water and sewerage department.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 3-2.2, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-45. - Sand and oil/grease interceptors.
(a)
Requirement. All users involved in the preparation of food for commercial purposes shall provide oil/grease interceptors or traps. Additionally, any user who generates a wastewater which contains greater than the quantity of oil and grease regulated under sections 86-40 through 86-50, and provided that the excess oil and grease is floatable and can be effectively removed in an oil/grease interceptor or trap, then such user will be required to install an oil/grease interceptor.
(b)
Design criteria.
(1)
For restaurants and other eating establishments. All sand and oil/grease interceptors used in conjunction with restaurants or other eating establishments shall have a capacity of 15 gallons per seat, except that no grease trap shall be smaller than 750 gallons or larger than 3,000 gallons. Also oil/grease interceptors must be baffled and have an inspection station.
(2)
For facilities other than eating establishments. All sand and oil/grease interceptors used in conjunction with facilities other than eating establishments shall have a capacity that will provide not less than ten minutes nor more than 30 minutes retention time at the peak eight-hour flow rate. Flow through velocities shall not exceed one foot per second at the peak eight-hour flow rate.
(3)
Maintenance. All grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be maintained by the user at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured materials, and shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the county. The frequency of removal shall be such as to ensure that no overflows of oil, grease or sand into the wastewater system ever result.
(4)
Proper disposal of collected materials. Under no circumstances shall the collected materials ever be returned to the wastewater system.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 3-2.3, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-46. - Accidental discharges.
(a)
Protection against. Each significant contributing industry shall provide protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this article. Additionally, any person or industry which handles hazardous wastes, any priority pollutant as shown on the Environmental Protection Agency list, or any prohibited materials shall, upon the request of the board of commissioners, provide proof of protection from accidental discharge of hazardous wastes, priority pollutants, or prohibited materials. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner's or user's cost and expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the county for review, and shall be approved by the county before construction of the facilities. All existing users shall complete such a plan within 90 days after the effective date of the resolution from which this article is derived. Construction shall be completed within 180 days of approval of plans by the county. No significant contributing industry who commences contributing to the county wastewater system after the effective date of the resolution from which this article is derived shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until accidental discharge procedures and facilities (if required) have been approved by the county. Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to modify the user's facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this article.
(b)
Oral notice to county. In the case of an accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and notify the county of the incident. The notification shall include location of discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions taken.
(c)
Written notice to county. Within five days following an accidental discharge, the user shall submit to the county a detailed written report describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the county wastewater facilities, fish kills, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this article or other applicable law.
(d)
Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of an accidental discharge and advising of the emergency notification procedure.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 3-2.4, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-47. - Discharge limitations.
No person shall discharge into any public sewer any of the following liquids:
(1)
Having a five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
(2)
Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended solids;
(3)
Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics described in section 86-43; or
(4)
Having an average daily flow greater than two percent of the average daily sewage flow of the service area.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 3-2.5, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-48. - Submission of plans and specifications for preliminary treatment facility.
No person shall construct any preliminary treatment facilities to meet the specifications of this article unless and until all plans, specifications, and other pertinent data is submitted to the water and sewerage department, the county board of health, and the planning department for approval in writing with the proper permits being obtained.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 3-2.6, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-49. - Maintenance of preliminary treatment facilities.
Preliminary treatment facilities shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 3-2.7, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-50. - Control manhole.
When required by the water and sewerage department of the county, the owner of any property served by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the water and sewerage department and by the planning department with the proper permit being obtained. The manhole shall be installed by the owner and shall be maintained so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 3-2.8, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-51. - Sewer construction and connection; permits.
No person shall uncover, make any connections with or openings into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the water and sewerage department.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 4-1.1, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-52. - Permit requirements.
No person, including the water and sewerage department, shall construct, or excavate for, any sewer, drain, or other construction without first having obtained from the planning department a building permit, grading permit, or any other permit required by the county, except in an emergency situation where danger to life, property, or integrity of the system exists.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 4-1.2, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-53. - Safety measures and inspections.
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the public entity involved.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 4-2.1, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-54. - Notification and inspection of connections.
Notification shall be made to the water and sewerage department when any building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the water and sewerage department. No connection shall be made to a public sewer without such inspection and supervision.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 4-2.2, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-55. - License and bond requirements.
When installing sewer service connections for hire in unincorporated areas of the county, before cutting any street, sidewalk or public property, and before connecting any service line to the public sewer, a plumber's license must be obtained and must be in compliance with all regulations of the county including those enforced by the planning department. Plumbers shall furnish to the county good and sufficient bond to save the county harmless from liability arising from any excavation; cut-in or other work performed along or across any public right-of-way before a permit is issued. Such bond shall be in the form approved by the county attorney and in the amount which the board of commissioners may, from time to time, require.
(Res. No. 98-3, § 4-2.3, 3-10-1998)
Sec. 86-56. - Violations.
Any person violating any provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, amenable to the processes of the superior court of the county or the state court of the county and, upon conviction of such misdemeanor, shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Res. No. 98-3, ch. V, 3-10-1998)
