ARTICLE III. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 74-61. - Definitions.
When used in this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given in this section. Terms not defined here shall have their customary dictionary definitions where not inconsistent with the context. The term "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive. The words "structures" and "building" have the same definition. Words used in the singular include the plural and those used in the plural include the singular. Words used in the present tense include the future.
Alley and service drive mean a public way used primarily for vehicular service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
Block means a piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public streets (other than alleys), rivers, streams or United States government property, regardless of size, shape, or number of lots therein.
Block corner means the corner of any subdivision block where two streets intersect, or the intersection of the back lot lines of a subdivision which define the outside limits of the subdivision at points having a change of direction greater than ten degrees.
Building setback line means a line across a lot establishing the minimum open space required between buildings and the street right-of-way line and rear and side property lines.
Classes of subdivisions means subdivisions as divided into five classes as follows:
(1)
Class I: A subdivision involving the division of a tract or parcel of land among immediate family members into two or more lots or parcels;
(2)
Class II: A subdivision involving the division of a tract or parcel of land into three to four lots or parcels with a five acre minimum per lot size; and
(3)
Class III: A subdivision involving a division of a tract or parcel of land into five to nine lots or parcels and shall be zoned R-1 with a ten acre minimum per lot size.
(4)
Class IV: A subdivision involving a division of a tract or parcel of land into ten or more lots or parcels and shall be zoned R-1 with a two acre minimum per lot size.
(5)
Minor subdivision: A subdivision involving the division of a tract or parcel of land into two lots or parcels or tracts with a two acre minimum per lot size.
Cul-de-sac means a street having one end open to traffic, the other end being permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
Easement means a recorded grant by a property owner for use by the public, a corporation, or person, of a strip of land for specified purposes.
Field representative means the person or persons appointed by the board of commissioners, being assigned the responsibility for administering zoning and soil erosion ordinances and subdivision regulations of the county. The office of the filed representative shall act as staff to the planning commission and shall be given full responsibility for receiving applications, fees, and filings from developers and citizens and shall report to the planning commission the ongoing status of the various activities involving soil erosion and zoning ordinances and subdivision regulations.
Health department means the county health department.
Lot means a portion or parcel of land separated from other portions of parcels by description on a subdivision plat or record survey map or described by metes and bounds and intended for transfer of ownership or for building development or both. For the purpose of this chapter, a lot shall not include any portion of a street right-of-way.
Lot, corner, means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
Lot, double frontage, means a lot other than a corner lot abutting upon two or more streets.
Pavement means any finish road/street surfacing treatment.
Planning commission means the county planning commission hereafter sometimes referred to as BCPC.
Plat, final, means a drawing of a subdivision showing completely and accurately all legal and engineering information and certification necessary for recording.
Plat, preliminary, means a drawing showing proposed layout of a subdivision in adequate detail to convey to the planning commission or others the concept and workability of a subdivision, but not complete in form or detail required for recording.
Roadbed means the graded portion of a road/street within top and side slopes, prepared as a foundation for the pavement structure and shoulder.
Roadway means the portion of a road/street within the limits of construction.
Shoulder means the portion of the roadway contiguous with the traveled way for accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use, and lateral support of base and surface courses.
Street means a right-of-way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as an avenue, boulevard, road, highway, expressway, lane or other way. A street shall be a public street with right-of-way dedicated to the county or a right-of-way by prescription. The words street and road have the same meaning and are used interchangeably in this chapter.
Subdivide means to divide the parts into more parts; or to divide into several parts.
Subdivider means the person, firm or corporation or other entity acting as a unit, dividing or proposing to divide land so as to constitute a subdivision as defined below, including any agent of the subdivider or combination of these.
Subdivision means the division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of sale, legacy, a new street, or a change in existing streets, and includes a resubdivision; where appropriate to the context, subdivision also relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided. The term "subdivision" shall also include the opening of a new street or road. The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots meet the standards of the county subdivision regulations are not included within this definition.
(Res. No. 2001-08, § 1(301), 3-13-2001; Ord. No. 2021-23 , §§ 1, 2, 12-14-2021)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Secs. 74-62—74-90. - Reserved.
