Chapter 26 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; courts, ch. 30; fire prevention and protection, ch. 38.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - Authority to waive procedures and fee structures.
(a)
Meetings. Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting [the State of] Georgia or the United States, the affairs and business of the county may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of the county, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of county, all actions taken by the local governing body shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the county. Such meetings may be called by the presiding officer or any two members of the governing body without regard to or compliance with time-consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
(b)
Purchasing and public works contracts. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest, responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; provided, however, that any public works contract entered into pursuant to this subsection shall be entered on the minutes of the county as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein.
(c)
Code enforcement. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of the Code, or any portion thereof, where: (a) the emergency or disaster is of such nature that immediate action outside the Code is required; (b) such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; and (c) such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(d)
Fees. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the area impacted by the disaster or emergency.
(e)
Temporary dwellings. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may issue temporary mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the county health department and the county building and inspections department. The temporary permit shall not exceed six [months] in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the governing authority or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period for an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
(Ord. No. 2002-25, § 1, 12-10-2002)
Sec. 26-2. - Definitions.
Fees. Any fee or rate charged by the county for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, temporary land use permits, and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and clean up of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. "Fees" shall not include those fees collected by the county on behalf of the federal or state government or those fees charged by the county pursuant to a federal or state statute or regulation.
State of emergency. As defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a co declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period. The period of time that the disaster emergency continues to cause disruptions in the area impacted by the disaster emergency. The "subsequent recovery period" shall not exceed six months the state of emergency declaration by the governor is terminated unless extended by official action of the governing authority of the county.
Temporary dwelling. Any mobile or easily movable home, trailer recreational vehicle or structure not otherwise permitted by the zoning regulations a particular zoning district.
(Ord. No. 2002-25, § 2, 12-10-2002)
Secs. 26-3—26-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70 et seq.; authority to adopt temporary or experimental traffic regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(19).

DIVISION 1. - AUTHORIZING THE SUSPENSION OF PORTIONS OF THE CODE OR ORDINANCES AND OTHER FORMALITIES DURING A STATE OF EMERGENCY

Sec. 26-31. - Definition.
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin"… "These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting services; police services [public safety]; medical and health services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, and other special weapons; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; emergency transportation; [nuclear power] plant protection; temporary restoration of public service utility services: and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions." (Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, as Amended December 1992, Chapter 3, Article 1, 38-3-3.)
(Res. No. 2002-28, § I, 12-10-2002)
Sec. 26-32. - Local organization for emergency management.
In cases where a county has an organization for emergency management, such organization shall include participation by each city within the county unless the governing authority of any particular city elects to implement its own organization for emergency management. Any two or more of the above-mentioned political subdivisions may, with the approval of the director, contract with each other so as to form one emergency management organization for the entire area included in the bounds of the contracting political subdivisions. The executive officer or governing body of the political subdivision is authorized to nominate a local director to the director of emergency management who shall have the authority to make the appointment." Upon appointment, the local emergency management agency director shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and operations of the local organization for emergency management, subject to the direction and control of the executive officer or governing body and shall serve at the pleasure of such executive officer or governing body. The local director shall:
•
Maintain an emergency management office in a building owned or leased by the political subdivision and the director or designee shall be available or on call at all times beyond working hours.
•
Develop, in conjunction with public and private agencies/organizations that have responsibility for designated emergency support functions, plans for responding to and recovering from disasters [and/or emergencies].
•
Respond to emergency scenes, command posts, and operation centers.
•
Coordinate emergency response of public and private agencies and organizations.
•
Attend training and meetings convened by the appointing authority or the (state emergency management) director.
•
Develop or cause to be developed, in collaboration with other public and private agencies within the state, mutual aid arrangements, consistent with state plans and programs, for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in case of emergency or disaster too great to be dealt with unassisted.
•
Enter into mutual aid agreements, subject to approval of the governor, with emergency management agencies or organizations in other states for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in case of emergency or disaster too great to be dealt with unassisted ([O.C.G.A.,] Chapter 3, Article 3, §§ 38-3-27 and 38-3-29.)
(Res. No. 2002-28, § II, 12-10-2002)
Sec. 26-33. - Local emergency management powers.
Each political subdivision shall have the emergency management power and authority to:
Appropriate and expend funds; execute contracts; obtain and distribute equipment, materials, and supplies; provide for the health and safety of persons and property, including emergency assistance to victims; direct and coordinate development of local emergency management plans and programs in accordance with federal and state policies and plans; appoint, employ, remove or provide, with or without compensation, chiefs of services, warning personnel, rescue teams, auxiliary fire and police personnel, and other emergency management workers; establish a primary and one or more secondary control centers to serve as command posts; and acquire, temporarily or permanently, by purchase, lease or otherwise [identify] sites required for installation of temporary housing units and prepare or equip such sites. ([O.C.G.A., Chapter 3, Article 2, § 38-3-27.)
(Res. No. 2002-28, § III, 12-10-2002)
Sec. 26-34. - Local emergency management financial assistance.
A county or municipality shall be entitled to receive [federal disaster] funds if the local emergency management organization has met all state and federal requirements to receive such funds. Qualifications include: legal establishment of an emergency management organization by local ordinance or resolution; a legally appointed local director who has been endorsed and appointed by the [State of] Georgia Emergency Management Director; an approved emergency and disaster plan with all applicable annexes [emergency support functions]; and an approved fiscal year program and other necessary compliance documents. (O.C.G.A., Chapter 3, Article 2, § 38-3-27.)
(Res. No. 2002-28, § IV, 12-10-2002)
Sec. 26-35. - Immunity of state and political subdivisions.
Neither the state nor any political subdivision of the state, nor the agents or representatives of the state or any political subdivision thereof, shall be liable for personal injury or property damage sustained by any person appointed or acting as a volunteer emergency management worker or member of any agency engaged in emergency management activity. Immunity does not apply in cases of willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith. ([O.C.G.A.], Chapter 3, Article 2, § 38-3-35.)
(Res. No. 2002-28, § V, 12-10-2002)
Sec. 26-36. - Local emergency management agency plan.
The Banks County Emergency Management Agency has developed, in partnership with local government and community agencies/organizations which have primary responsibility for emergency support functions, an approved emergency management plan. A copy of this plan and/or major revisions are being submitted to the [State of] Georgia Emergency Management Agency by the local emergency management agency director, in coordination with the undersigned local government officials or legally appointed successors. It is understood that the [State of] Georgia Emergency Management Agency will review this plan for compliance with all federal and state requirements.
As authorized local government officials, we understand and agree to the requirements of the Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, amended, December 1992, as stated in this article.
(Res. No. 2002-28, § VI, 12-10-2002)
DIVISION 2. - OVERCHARGING FOR GOODS, MATERIALS, SERVICES AND HOUSING DURING A STATE OF EMERGENCY—PROHIBITED

Sec. 26-37. - Overcharging prohibited.
In order to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property, it shall be unlawful during the duration of a state of emergency or subsequent recovery period in which the county has been designated as a disaster area, for any person, firm, or corporation located or doing business in the county to overcharge for any goods, materials, services or housing sold within the county.
(Ord. No. 2002-24, § 1, 12-10-2002)
Sec. 26-38. - Definitions.
(a)
Overcharging. The term "overcharging" is defined as charging prices for goods, materials, services, or housing which are substantially in excess of the customary charges or in applicable cases substantially in excess of the supplier's or provider's costs for such goods, materials, services or housing. The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the goods, materials, services, or housing was offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in costs to the supplier directly attributable to higher costs of materials, supplies, and labor costs resulting from the emergency.
(b)
State of emergency. The term "state of emergency" is defined, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), as a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
(c)
Subsequent recovery period. The term "subsequent recovery period" is defined as that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor unless extended by official action of the governing authority of the county.
(Ord. No. 2002-24, § 2, 12-10-2002)
Sec. 26-39. - Penalties.
Violation of the provisions of this article upon conviction shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000 per violation or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each sale shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 2002-24, § 3, 12-10-2002)
DIVISION 3 - CURFEWS DURING TIMES OF EMERGENCY OR DISASTER[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Offenses, ch. 54.

Sec. 26-40. - Institution of curfew.
(a)
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, its designee or the emergency interim successor may adopt a resolution instituting a curfew when it is determined necessary to protect and safeguard the people and property of Banks County.
(b)
All of the territory of the unincorporated county shall be subject to the terms of the curfew, unless otherwise specified in the resolution.
(c)
The resolution instituting the curfew shall include the dates and hours that the curfew shall be in effect.
(Ord. No. 2002-23, § 1, 12-10-2002)
Sec. 26-41. - Definitions.
(a)
Curfew. A "curfew" is a regulation requiring the withdrawal from any person not otherwise exempt from this article from appearing in certain public areas during specified hours.
(b)
Exempt individuals. Unless otherwise specified in the resolution implementing the curfew, "exempt individuals" include those individuals engaged in the provision of designated, essential services, such as fire, law enforcement, emergency medical services and hospital services, military services, utility emergency repairs. The resolution may, in the discretion of the governing authority, also exempt regular employees of local industries traveling to and from their jobs with appropriate identification, news media employees, building and repair contractors, properly registered according to Banks County Ordinance No. 2002-26 ("Ordinance to Require Registration and Licensing of Building and Repair Services During a State of Emergency"), performing activities related to construction, repair, renovation or improvement of buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster or emergency.
(c)
State of emergency. As defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
(Ord. No. 2002-23, § 2, 12-10-2002)
Sec. 26-42. - Prohibition.
It shall be prohibited for any person, other than exempt individuals, to appear in public in the territory subject to the curfew, including but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, parks, public buildings or any other public places in all or a delineated part of unincorporated Banks County during the stated hours of the curfew.
(Ord. No. 2002-23, § 3, 12-10-2002)
Sec. 26-43. - Penalties.
Any individual violating this article, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both.
(Ord. No. 2002-23, § 4, 12-10-2002)
Secs. 26-44—26-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EMERGENCY 911 SYSTEM[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Telephone Number 911 Service Act of 1977, O.C.G.A. § 46-5-120 et seq.; authority to provide ambulance and emergency rescue services, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3); restrictions on operation, installation, maintenance, etc. of electronic security systems by counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-12; emergency medical services, O.C.G.A. § 31-11-1 et seq.; standards for ambulances, O.C.G.A. § 31-11-34; emergency vehicle equipment, O.C.G.A. § 40-8-90 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 26-61. - Reaffirmation of necessity for system.
The board of commissioners reaffirms the necessity for the emergency 911 system for Banks County, Georgia.
(Res. No. 95-2, § 1, 2-14-1995)
Sec. 26-62. - Necessity for charges.
The board of commissioners affirms the necessity for a monthly 911 charge on each exchange access facility subscribed to by a telephone subscriber in areas served by the county 911 service.
(Res. No. 95-2, § 2, 2-14-1995)
Sec. 26-63. - Monthly charge.
The 911 charge shall be $1.50 per month per exchange access facility provided to the telephone subscriber.
(Res. No. 95-2, § 3, 2-14-1995)
Sec. 26-64. - Wireless enhanced 911 charge.
A wireless enhanced 911 charge is imposed upon each wireless telecommunications connection subscribed to by subscribers whose billing address is within the jurisdiction of the county at the rate of $1.00 per month per wireless connection provided to each telephone subscriber.
(Res. No. 98-16, 9-18-1998)
Sec. 26-65. - Collection.
Each service supplier shall, on behalf of the county, collect the 911 charge from those telephone subscribers to whom it provides exchange telephone service in the area served by the county emergency 911 system.
(Res. No. 95-2, § 4, 2-14-1995)
Secs. 26-66—26-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ADVISORY BOARD

Sec. 26-81. - Overseeing authority; members.
(a)
The county E-911 advisory board overseeing authority will be the county board of commissioners.
(b)
The county E-911 advisory board voting members will consist of the following: the county E-911 director or appointee; the county sheriff or appointee; the county Fire/EMS chief or appointee; the county EMA director or appointee; the county planning commission director or appointee; the Homer fire chief or appointee; the Baldwin fire chief or appointee; the Baldwin chief of police or appointee; the Maysville chief of police or appointee; Maysville fire chief or appointee; the department of natural resources law enforcement official; and a state forestry area ranger or appointee.
(c)
A quorum of the advisory board shall be a majority of the membership. No business shall be conducted by the advisory board unless the quorum is present.
(d)
Guest speakers will be permitted to attend if proper notice is given and the topic directly relates to an emergency system or need. No guest will be allowed to vote on any topic.
(e)
The advisory board shall hold regular quarterly meetings at 2:00 p.m. on the second Monday of every third month following October 8, 2001. The meetings will be held at the county fire administrative offices training room. The meetings will not be held unless the quorum is present and quarterly meeting dates may be changed by a vote from the quorum. Special called meetings may be necessary from time to time and may be called by the chairman or a majority of the board. All recommendations shall be sent directly to the county board of commissioner's and county E-911 director.
(f)
On the first meeting of the county E-911 advisory board the members will elect a chairman for the meetings and a secretary.
(g)
The duties of the advisory board include, but are not limited to the following:
(1)
Review and analyze the progress by public safety agencies in the continued development of the 911 and central communications systems;
(2)
Recommend steps of action to affect the necessary coordination, regulation and development of the 911 system;
(3)
Identify and/or review mutual aid agreements necessary to the operation of the 911 system;
(4)
Assist in the promulgation of necessary rules, regulations, and operating procedures necessary to notify various agencies that an emergency exists and ensure proper response, and any other such policy as shall be deemed necessary and appropriate;
(5)
Act as a quality assurance board in the management and operation of the central dispatch center;
(6)
Make recommendations concerning equipment and coordinate the acquisition of appropriate radio equipment for all users to ensure compatibility with the system as a whole.
(Res. of 10-5-2001)
