ARTICLE II. - PURPOSES
In addition to the specific purposes stated in connection with the sign ordinance provisions and the adult establishment provisions, both of which enjoy special protections under the First Amendment, it is the purpose of this entire zoning ordinance to promote the public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Bartow County and visitors thereto. To these ends, this ordinance is intended to achieve, and is enacted for, the following purposes:
(A)
To guide and regulate the orderly growth, development, redevelopment and preservation of Bartow County in accordance with a well-considered comprehensive plan and with long-term objectives, principles and standards deemed beneficial to the interest and welfare of the people.
(B)
To protect the established character and the social and economic well-being of both private and public property.
(C)
To promote, in the public interest, the wise utilization of land.
(D)
To provide for adequate light, air, convenience of access, and safety from fire, flood and other dangers.
(E)
To reduce or prevent congestion in the public streets.
(F)
To facilitate the creation of a convenient, attractive and harmonious community.
(G)
To encourage an aesthetically attractive environment, both built and natural, and to provide for regulations that protect and enhance these aesthetic considerations.
(H)
To expedite the provision of adequate police and fire protection, safety from crime, disaster evacuation, civil defense, transportation, water, sewerage, flood protection, schools, parks, forests, playgrounds, recreational facilities, airports and other public requirements.
(I)
To protect against destruction of, or encroachment upon, historic areas.
(J)
To protect against overcrowding of land, overcrowding of population in relation to the community facilities existing or available, obstruction of light and air, danger and congestion in travel and transportation, and loss of life, health or property from fire, flood, or other danger.
(K)
To encourage economic development activities that provide desirable employment and enlarge the tax base.
(L)
To promote the preservation of the unique natural and physical resources of the county including forested areas, riverbeds, stream beds, and archaeological sites.
(M)
To achieve compliance with all applicable state and federal regulations.
(N)
To provide for protection of the constitutional rights and obligations of all citizens within the county.
(Ord. of 7-21-2021(4) )
