ARTICLE XI. - FILM PERMITS

Sec. 44-700. - Title and purpose.
This article shall be known as the Film Permit Ordinance. It is designed to provide a procedure to authorize filming of motion pictures on public property while protecting the public interest and to regulate filming on private property.
( Ord. of 9-10-14, § I )
Sec. 44-701. - Definitions.
Film production means any and all motion picture production, television production, videography or web video (meaning video production for distribution on the internet).
( Ord. of 9-10-14, § I )
Sec. 44-702. - Permit required.
No person shall engage in, conduct or carry on the business of film production on private or public property within the unincorporated area of Bartow County, including but not limited to rights of way, without first receiving a film production permit from the county. This is in addition to any permit that may be required by the International Fire Code or any other provisions of the Code of Bartow County. Use of a county facility or building (other than a road) shall also require the applicant for the permit enter into a "Location Agreement" contract with the county, governing the use of county property.
( Ord. of 9-10-14, § I )
Sec. 44-703. - Application.
Any person seeking the issuance of a film production permit shall complete a written application form provided by the county and shall provide all information requested thereon, not less than ten business days nor more than 180 days prior to the commencement of film production. The application must be signed by an authorized representative of the applicant.
( Ord. of 9-10-14, § I ; Ord. of 3-10-2021(1) , § I; Ord. of 11-3-2021(1) , § I)
Sec. 44-704. - Exemptions.
The following film production activities are exempt from permit requirements:
Film production by news media; personal or family videos (weddings, etc.); studio filming inside a movie studio; student film productions; low impact productions (utilizing ten or fewer crew for three or fewer days and taking place entirely on private property); and such other productions as are exempted by the county administrator.
However, if any of the exempt activities listed above desire to use county facilities or block or interfere with a county street, property or right-of-way, then the ordinance shall apply and a permit must be obtained.
( Ord. of 9-10-14, § I )
Sec. 44-705. - Administration and regulations.
(a)
Administrator. This article shall be administered by the county clerk and the facilities manager or their designee.
(b)
Conditions. The following conditions apply to the use of any county-owned property. Additional special conditions as required by the specific film production based on circumstances of the request and location or other special factors, may be imposed as a condition of the permit if deemed necessary by the county facilities director:
(1)
County personnel shall be on site at all times during set up, filming, and tear down/removal of equipment from the property.
(2)
Company shall be responsible for payment of an hourly rate for county personnel as determined by the county, which rate will be disclosed in advance.
(3)
Company must identify the company representative in charge of site during production, and provide contact information including name, phone number, and email. Such representative must be a 24-hour contact.
(4)
County personnel and company representative must schedule a walk-through of the property prior to or during set up and upon completion and tear down of set.
(5)
The county may request a security deposit against any potential damage, in a form acceptable to the county, which may include cash or a credit card.
(6)
Company must provide portable air/heat for all interior filming as deemed necessary and appropriate by the county facilities director.
(7)
Road closures for filming are not permitted. No road or bridge will be closed completely to traffic for filming; at least one lane must be kept open at all times, with reversing traffic and traffic control. Roads may be totally blocked to traffic for very brief periods not to exceed ten minutes, no more than once per half-hour, and not at all during school bus operation hours (contact county clerk for schedule). Emergency vehicles must be allowed immediate access. Bartow County Sheriff's deputies must be contracted to manage traffic and lane closures.
(c)
Safety and notice standards.
(1)
Roads and traffic. If roads or lanes are to be blocked or traffic disrupted in any manner, off-duty Bartow County Sheriff's Office deputies must be hired to provide safety supervision. Requirements of the MUTCD for flagging and lane closures shall be observed. Filming on state highways requires permission of the Georgia Department of Transportation. Removal, cutting or trimming of vegetation on the right-of-way is prohibited unless specifically approved in the permit.
(2)
Fire marshal. The Bartow County Fire Marshal shall have full access to any film production to ensure safety for crew members, the public and surrounding properties. No film activity involving the use of explosives, pyrotechnics, smoke machines or fire shall be permitted without approval of the fire marshal.
(3)
Public notice. Adjacent property owners shall be notified in advance of the filming and provided a contact number for any complaints or concerns. At least seven days' notice shall be posted in a manner approved by the road department director of any full or partial road closure; a detour route must be posted for full road closures.
(d)
Fees. Fees for the film permit are $300.00 per day. Additional fees shall apply for use of county roads or county facilities, which are set by the county on a fee schedule approved by the county administrator, and which may be amended from time to time. Parties seeking a permit should consult with the county facilities director for the latest fee schedule. Fees may include use fees, storage fees and parking fees.
(e)
Security deposit. A security deposit shall be required for use of designated county-owned facilities, including, but not necessarily limited to the Historic Bartow County Courthouse and Rose Lawn Museum and Carriage House. Said deposit shall be based upon the facility and terms of use, as set by the county facilities director.
( Ord. of 9-10-14, § I ; Ord. of 3-10-2021(1) , §§ II, III; Ord. of 11-3-2021(1) , §§ II, III)
Sec. 44-706. - Liability provisions.
(a)
Liability insurance. Before a permit is issued, a certificate of insurance will be required in an amount of $1,000,000.00 minimum naming the county and its officers and employees as additional insureds for protection against claims of third persons for personal injury, wrongful death and property damage. The certificate shall not be subject to cancellation or modification until after 30 days' written notice to the county. A copy shall remain on file.
(b)
Workers' compensation insurance. An application shall conform to all applicable Federal and State statutes and requirements for workers' compensation insurance for all persons under the permit.
(c)
Hold harmless agreement. The applicant's acceptance of the permit shall constitute a hold harmless agreement, holding Bartow County and its officers and employees harmless from all damages, suits, actions or liabilities, including attorney's fees, arising out of or resulting from the filming activity, or from the acts of the filming company or its agents during the filming activity or occurring as a result of the use of filming locations by the filming company.
(d)
Security deposit. To ensure cleanup and restoration of the site, an applicant may be required to submit a refundable deposit (amount to be determined). Upon completion of filming and inspection of the site by the county, if no verifiable damage has occurred, the security deposit shall be returned to the applicant.
(e)
Damage to property. Any damage to county-owned property, facilities or infrastructure, including roads, arising from or relating to the film production, shall be the responsibility of the permit holder who shall repair all such damage or pay the county the costs of repair.
( Ord. of 9-10-14, § I )
Sec. 44-707. - Violations/revocation.
If an applicant violates any provisions of this ordinance or any conditions to the permit, the county may provide the permit holder verbal or written notice of the violation. If the applicant fails to correct the violation, the county may revoke the permit and all activity must cease immediately. Activity that threatens public safety will result in an immediate revocation of the permit.
( Ord. of 9-10-14, § I )
Secs. 44-708, 44-709. - Reserved.
