ARTICLE IV. - INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE

Sec. 18-600. - Adoption by reference.
(1)
Pursuant to the authority granted in O.C.G.A. ยง 8-2-25(b), Bartow County does hereby adopt and incorporate by reference as set forth herein the "state minimum standard code" set forth in O.C.G.A. ยง 8-2-20(9)(B)(i)(X), the International Property Maintenance Code (ICC), most current edition with Georgia amendments, as published by the International Code Council. This Code is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of Bartow County for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings, and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Property Maintenance Code (current edition) on file in the office of the Community Development Department of Bartow County are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this ordinance, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in subsection (2) of this section. It is intended that the county adopt the current edition of the International Property Maintenance Code, in the current edition approved by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs as a permissive code, with Georgia amendments. Future editions and amendments are incorporated by reference.
(2)
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1 "Name of Jurisdiction" shall be BARTOW COUNTY
Section 101.2 The following sentence is deleted at the end of the existing paragraph:
Section 103.2 The code official shall be the Bartow County Zoning Administrator or his or her appointed deputies and this code shall be enforced by code enforcement officials or building officials of the Bartow County Community Development Department.
Section 103.5 NO FEES ARE ASSESSED
Section 104.3 The following sentence is added at the end of the existing paragraph: "Pursuant to OCGA Sec. 8-2-26, the County shall be authorized to inspect and seek right of entry to premises to enforce this code. If voluntary compliance cannot be obtained the code official shall be authorized to seek an inspection warrant from Magistrate Court. The one seeking the warrant must establish under oath or affirmation that the property to be inspected is to be inspected as a part of a legally authorized program of inspection which includes that property or that there is probable cause for believing that there is a condition, object, activity, or circumstance which legally justifies such an inspection of that property."
Section 106.4 The following sentence is added at the end of the existing paragraph: "The maximum fine shall be $1000.00 per offense, per day."
Section 111.1 The board of appeals shall be the Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals, established under Division 13 of Article II of Chapter 18 of the Code of Bartow County.
Section 302.4 12 INCHES
Section 304.14 JANUARY 1 TO DECEMBER 31
Section 602.3 JANUARY 1 TO DECEMBER 31
Section 602.4 JANUARY 1 TO DECEMBER 31
Appendix A "Boarding Standard" is hereby adopted by Bartow County.
(Ord. of 8-22-2018(1) , ยง I; Ord. of 2-10-2021(2) , ยง I)
