ARTICLE IV. - ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS

Sec. 4.1. - Division into districts.
For the purpose of this Ordinance, Bartow County is divided into zoning districts designated as follows:
• A-1 Agricultural District
• RE-1 Rural Estate District (conventional or industrialized single-family)
• RE-2 Rural Estate District (conventional, manufactured or industrialized single-family)
• R-1 Residential District (conventional or industrialized single-family)
• R-2 Residential District (conventional or industrialized duplexes, triplexes, or quadraplexes)
• R-3 Residential District (multi-family conventional or industrialized housing)
• R-4 Residential District (conventional, manufactured or industrialized single-family)
• R-6 Manufactured Housing Parks District
• O/I Office and Institutional District
• C-N Neighborhood Business District
• C-1 General Business District
• I-1 General Industrial District
• I-2 Heavy Industrial District
• M-1 Mining District
• PUD Planned Unit Development District
• BPD Business Park District
• R-7 Residential District (high-density multi-family housing)
• R-8 Residential District (single-family housing)
Special districts
• Conservation Subdivision
• Etowah Valley Historic District
• Allatoona Overlay District
Complete district regulations can be found in Article VII, and further applicable regulations can be found throughout this Ordinance.
(Ord. of 7-21-2021(4) ; Ord. of 11-3-2021(3) , § III)
Sec. 4.2. - District boundaries; official zoning maps.
The boundaries of each district are as shown on a series of maps which collectively are entitled "Official Zoning Maps, Bartow County, Georgia" and certified by the Zoning Administrator. Said maps and all explanatory matter thereon are hereby made a part of and incorporated into this Ordinance by reference. Said maps shall be retained in the office of the Zoning Administrator of Bartow County and are available for public inspection during the business hours of the zoning office, which is located in the Frank Moore Administrative and Judicial Center, 135 W. Cherokee Avenue, Cartersville.
(Ord. of 7-21-2021(4) )
Sec. 4.3. - Rules for determining boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts as shown on the Zoning Maps or Future Land Use Map, the following rules shall apply:
4.3.1 Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the center lines of streets or highways, street lines, or highway rights-of-way lines, such center lines, street lines, or highway rights-of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
4.3.2 Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately follow lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries.
4.3.3 Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately parallel to the center lines of streets, highways, railroads, or rights-of-way of same, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the map. If no distance is given, such dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on said map.
4.3.4 Where a district boundary line, as appearing on a map, divides a lot in single ownership at the time of this enactment into two or more classifications, the district requirements for the larger portion shall apply to the entire lot.
4.3.5 It is recognized that discrepancies or conflicts can occur between the official zoning maps and the official County Clerk's records (minutes) of actions taken by the Commissioner with respect to a specific parcel, either because of scriveners' errors or in amendment of the official maps. In the event such a discrepancy or conflict, the official County Clerk's records shall prevail.
(Ord. of 7-21-2021(4) )
Sec. 4.4. - Future land use map.
By this Section, the Future Land Use Map adopted by resolution of the Commissioner on December 6, 2006 and as thereafter amended, is established as the official policy of the county concerning proposed land uses, under which the unincorporated areas of the county are divided into land use categories.
(Ord. of 7-21-2021(4) )
Sec. 4.5. - Future land use map distinguished from zoning.
The Future Land Use Map does not alter or affect the existing zoning districts in the county, does not effectuate an amendment to the official zoning map, and does not itself permit or prohibit any existing land uses. However, it is the policy of the County to make every effort to keep zoning districts consistent with the Future Land Use Map classifications.
(Ord. of 7-21-2021(4) )
Sec. 4.6. - Land use districts.
The boundaries of the various land use districts are shown upon the future land use map and shall be used as a guide for decision making by the County.
(Ord. of 7-21-2021(4) )
Sec. 4.7. - Interpretation of land use district boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any land use districts shown on the Future Land Use Map, the rules set forth in Section 4.3 shall apply.
(Ord. of 7-21-2021(4) )
Sec. 4.8. - Relationship between land use categories and zoning districts.
It is the goal of the County that the land use categories established by the Future Land Use Map are to be implemented with appropriate zoning classifications, and that rezonings should be kept consistent with the Future Land Use Map wherever possible. If a zoning district is not listed as permitted in a land use district, application should first be made to change the land use district prior to amending the zoning district. Such applications can proceed simultaneously, but it is the goal of the County that no property should be zoned to a classification inconsistent with its land use district. However, the County Commissioner has the power to grant rezonings inconsistent with the Future Land Use Map, which is only a policy guideline.
The land use categories established by the Future Land Use Map are to be implemented by the establishment of appropriate zoning districts within each category. The following zoning districts are considered most compatible with the listed land use district:
(A)
Low density residential: A-1, R-1, R-4, R-8, RE-1 and RE-2.
(B)
Medium/high density residential: R-2, R-3, R-6, R-7.
(C)
Rural estate: RE-1, RE-2; also R-1 and R-4, excluding R-1 or R-4 subdivisions of three or more lots.
(D)
Residential/mixed use: Predominantly R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-6, PUD; also allows C-1, C-N, O/I.
(E)
Commercial: C-1, C-N, O/I.
(F)
Commercial/mixed use: Predominantly C-1, C-N, O/I; also allows R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-6, PUD.
(G)
Industrial: I-1, I-2, BPD.
(H)
Mining: M-1.
(I)
Agriculture: A-1; also R-1, R-4, RE-1, RE-2, excluding any R-1, R-4, or RE subdivisions of three or more lots.
(J)
Public/institutional: A-1, RE-1, RE-2, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-6, O/I, C-N, C-1, I-1, I-2, M-1.
(K)
Park/recreation/conservation: A-1, RE-1, RE-2, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-6.
(L)
Forestry: A-1; also R-1, R-4, RE-1, RE-2, excluding R-1, R-4 or RE subdivisions of three or more lots.
(Ord. of 7-21-2021(4) ; Ord. of 11-3-2021(3) , § IV)
