Chapter 34 - NUISANCES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 34-1—34-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - UNSAFE BUILDINGS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Ordinances relating to repair, closing and demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation or buildings or structures that imperil health, safety or morals, O.C.G.A. § 36-61-11; nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.; jurisdiction of municipal court or magistrate court to abate nuisance, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5; authority to demolish structures where drug crimes are committed, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7; authority to repair, close or demolish unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7; county or municipal ordinances relating to unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 34-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Closing means securing and causing a dwelling, building or structure to be vacated.
Dwellings, buildings or structures means any building or structure or part thereof used and occupied for human habitation, commercial, industrial or business uses, or intended to be so used, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith and also includes any building or structure of any design. The term "dwellings, buildings, or structures" shall not mean or include any farm, any building or structure located on a farm, or any agricultural facility or other building or structure used for the production, growing, raising, harvesting, storage or processing of crops, livestock, poultry or other farm products.
Owner means the holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
Parties in interest means persons in possession of property and all individuals, associations and corporations who have interest of record in the county where the property is located in a dwelling, building or structure, including executors, administrators, guardians and trustees.
Public authority means any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of any department or branch of the government of a municipality, county or state relating to health, fire or building regulations or to other activities concerning dwellings, buildings or structures in the county or municipality.
Public officer means the officer who is authorized by this article to exercise the powers prescribed by this article or any agent of such officer.
Repair means closing a dwelling, building or structure or the cleaning or removal of debris, trash and other material present and accumulated that create a health or safety hazard in or about any dwelling, building or structure.
(Code 2000, § 26-31; Ord. No. 89-1, § 1, 5-2-1989)
Sec. 34-20. - Determination of nuisances.
(a)
It is found and declared that in the unincorporated area of the county there is the existence or occupancy of dwellings, buildings or structures that are unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial or business occupancy or use and are inimical to the welfare and are dangerous and injurious to the health, safety and welfare of the people of the county; and that a public necessity exists for the repair, closing or demolition of such dwellings, buildings or structures.
(b)
It is found and declared that in the unincorporated area of the county there is in existence conditions or use of real estate that renders adjacent real estate unsafe or inimical to safe human habitation. Such use is dangerous and injurious to the health, safety and welfare of the people of the county, and a public necessity exists for the repair of such condition or cessation of such use that renders the adjacent real estate unsafe or inimical to safe human habitation.
(c)
It is found and declared that there exists within the unincorporated area of the county property upon which there is an accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth and other unsanitary or unsafe conditions that create a public health hazard or general nuisance to those persons residing in the vicinity of such real estate.
(Code 2000, § 26-32; Ord. No. 89-1, § 2, 5-2-1989)
Sec. 34-21. - Duty of owner.
It is the duty of the owner of every dwelling, building, structure, or property within the jurisdiction to construct and maintain such dwelling, building, structure, or property in conformance with applicable codes in force within the county or such ordinances which regulate and prohibit activities on property and which declare it to be a public nuisance to construct or maintain any dwelling, building, structure, or property in violation of such codes or ordinances.
Sec. 34-22. - Dwellings, buildings, structures and lots as nuisances.
All dwellings, buildings, structures or lots of the character described in section 34-20 are declared to be public nuisances and shall be repaired, closed, vacated, abated, demolished or cleared as provided for in O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-7 through 41-2-17.
(Code 2000, § 26-33; Ord. No. 89-1, § 3, 5-2-1989)
Secs. 34-23—34-47. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PUBLIC OFFICER

Sec. 34-48. - Appointment.
The board of commissioners shall designate or appoint a public officer to exercise the powers prescribed in and set forth by this article, and to exercise such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions of this article.
(Code 2000, § 26-56; Ord. No. 89-1, § 4, 5-2-1989)
Sec. 34-49. - Powers.
The public officer designated or appointed according to section 34-48 is authorized to exercise such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-7 through 41-2-17, including the following powers in addition to others granted in this article:
(1)
To investigate the dwelling conditions in the unincorporated area of the county in order to determine which dwellings, buildings, structures or lots in the county are unfit for human habitation or are unfit for current commercial, industrial or business use;
(2)
To administer oaths and affirmations, to examine witnesses, and to receive evidence;
(3)
To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations; however, such entries shall be made in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
(4)
To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents and employees as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this article; and
(5)
To delegate any of his functions and powers under this article to such officers and agents as he may designate.
(Code 2000, § 26-57; Ord. No. 89-1, § 7, 5-2-1989)
Sec. 34-50. - Duties.
(a)
Whenever a request is filed with the public officer by a public authority or by at least five residents of the unincorporated area of the county charging that any dwelling, building, structure or lot is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes, is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes, or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the public officer shall make an investigation or inspection of the specific dwelling, unit, structure, property, or lot. If the officer's investigation or inspection identifies that any dwelling, building, structure, property, or lot is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the public officer may issue a complaint in rem against the lot, tract, or parcel of real property on which such dwelling, building, or structure is situated or where such public health hazard or general nuisance exists and shall cause summons and a copy of the complaint to be served on the interested parties for such dwelling, building, or structure. The complaint shall identify the subject real property by appropriate street address and official tax map reference; identify the interested parties; state with particularity the factual basis for the action; and contain a statement of the action sought by the public officer to abate the alleged nuisance. The summons shall notify the interested parties that a hearing will be held before a magistrate court of the county, at a date and time certain and at a place within the county where the property is located. Such hearing shall be held not less than 15 days nor more than 45 days after the filing of said complaint in the proper court.
(b)
The owner and any parties in interest shall be given the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the magistrate court of the county.
(c)
If after such notice and hearing the magistrate court determines that the dwelling, building, structure or lot under consideration is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use, and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, it shall state in writing its findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon interested parties that have answered the complaint of appeared at the hearing an order as follows:
(1)
To repair, alter or improve the dwelling, building, structure or lot if the same can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building, structure or lot, and to require the owner or parties in interest within the time specified in the order to repair, alter or improve such dwelling, building, structure or lot so as to render it fit for human habitation or for current commercial, industrial or business uses, or to vacate and close the dwelling, building or structure or lot as a human habitation; or, if applicable, to secure the structure so that it cannot be used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or
(2)
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the said dwelling, building, or structure in order to bring it into full compliance with applicable codes relevant to the cited violations cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure, to require the owner, within the time specified in the order, to demolish and remove such dwelling, building, or structure and all debris from the property.
The court shall make its determination of "reasonable cost" in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure, or lot without consideration of the value of the land on which the structure is situated; provided, however, that costs of the preparation necessary to repair, alter, or improve a structure may be considered. Income and financial status of the owner shall not be factored in the court's determination. The present value of the structure and the costs of repair, alteration, or improvement may be established by affidavits of real estate appraisers with a state appraiser classification as provided in O.C.G.A. title 43 ch. 39A (O.C.G.A § 43-39A-1 et seq.), qualified building contractors, or qualified building inspectors without actual testimony presented. Costs of repair, alteration, or improvement of the structure shall be the cost necessary to bring the structure into compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violations in force in the county;
(d)
In no event, however, shall the removal or demolition of any dwelling, building, structure, or lot be required except upon a finding that the cost of repair, alteration or improvement exceeds half the value of such dwelling, building or structure when repaired to satisfy the minimum requirements of this article.
(e)
If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair or demolish the dwelling, building, or structure, the public officer may cause such dwelling, building, structure, or lot to be repaired, altered or improved, cleared, or to be vacated and closed or demolished. Such abatement action shall commence within 270 days after the expiration of time specified in the order for abatement by the owner. Any time during which such action is prohibited by a court order issued pursuant to O.C.G.A § 41-2-13 or any other equitable relief granted by a court of competent jurisdiction shall not be counted toward the 270 days in which such abatement action must commence. The public officer shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the building, dwelling, or structure, or lot a placard with the following words:
"This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business use and does not comply with the applicable codes or has been ordered secured to prevent its use in connection with drug crimes or constitutes an endangerment to public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions. The use or occupation of this building is prohibited and unlawful."
(f)
If the public officer has the structure demolished, reasonable effort shall be made to salvage reusable materials for credit against the cost of demolition. The proceeds of any moneys received from the sale of salvaged materials shall be used or applied against the cost of the demolition and removal of the structure, and proper records shall be kept showing application of sales proceeds. Any such sale of salvaged materials may be made without the necessity of public advertisement and bid. The public officer and governing authority are relieved of any and all liability resulting from or occasioned by the sale of any such salvaged materials, including, without limitation, defects in such salvaged materials.
(g)
The amount of the cost of demolition, including all court costs, appraisal fees, administrative costs incurred by the county tax commissioner or municipal tax collector or city revenue officer, and all other costs necessarily associated with the abatement action, including restoration to grade of the real property after demolition, shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred.
(h)
The county may enforce the collection of any amount due on such lien for removal, abatement, demolition, clearing of dwellings, buildings, structures or lots in the following manner:
(1)
The owner or parties in interest shall be allowed to satisfy the amount due on such lien by paying to the county within 30 days after the perfection of the lien a sum of money equal to 25 percent of the total amount due, and by further paying to the county the remaining balance due on such lien, together with interest at the rate of seven percent per annum, in three equal annual payments, each of which shall become due and payable on the anniversary date of the initial payment made as hereinabove prescribed.
(2)
Should the property upon which such lien is perfected be sold, transferred or conveyed by the owner or parties in interest at any time prior to the termination of the three-year period, the entire balance due on such lien shall be due and payable to the county.
(3)
Should any amount due on such lien or any portion thereof be unpaid after the passage of the three-year period, or upon the occurrence of the contingency provided for in subsection (h)(2) of this section, or should the owner or parties at interest fail to pay within 30 days after the perfection of the lien a sum of money equal to 25 percent of the total amount due, as provided in subsection (h)(1) of this section, the county may enforce the collection of any amount due on such lien for alteration, repair, removal or demolition of dwellings, buildings or structures or clearing of lots in the same manner as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-358 and other applicable state statutes. This procedure shall be subject to the right of redemption by any person having any right, title or interest in or lien upon the property, all as provided by O.C.G.A. § 48-4-40 et seq.
(Code 2000, § 26-58; Ord. No. 89-1, § 5, 5-2-1989)
Sec. 34-51. - Determination that dwelling, building, structure or lot is unfit.
The public officer may determine that a dwelling, building, structure or lot is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use if he finds that conditions exist in such dwelling, building, structure or lot that are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals of the occupants of such dwelling, building, structure or lot; of the occupants of neighborhood dwellings, buildings or structures; or other residents of the county. Such conditions may include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities.
(2)
Lack of adequate ventilation, light or sanitary facilities.
(3)
Dilapidation.
(4)
Disrepair.
(5)
Structural defects.
(6)
Uncleanliness.
(7)
Accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth and other unsanitary and unsafe conditions.
A public officer may determine that a dwelling, building, or structure is vacant, dilapidated, and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes upon personal observation or a report from a law enforcement agency and evidence of drug crimes being committed.
(Code 2000, § 26-59; Ord. No. 89-1, § 6, 5-2-1989)
Sec. 34-52. - Service of complaints or orders.
Complaints or orders issued by a public officer pursuant to this article in all cases shall be served in a manner as provided in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-12.
(Code 2000, § 26-60; Ord. No. 89-1, § 8, 5-2-1989)
Secs. 34-53—34-77. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - LOUD, DISTURBING, OR UNNECESSARY NOISES

Sec. 34-78. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Public place means any place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for business, entertainment or other lawful purposes, but does not necessarily mean devoted solely to the uses of the public. It shall include the front or immediate area of any store, shop, restaurant, tavern or other place of business and also public grounds, areas, streets or parks.
Public roads means all public highways, streets and roads located within the unincorporated area of the county, and also means any public property owned by the county, either individually or jointly with the City of Fitzgerald.
(Code 2000, § 26-171; Ord. No. 00-2, § 1, 4-4-2000)
Sec. 34-79. - General prohibition.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or continued any loud or boisterous noise or disturbance that would annoy a reasonable person near to any public highway, road, street, lane, alley, park, square or building which either annoys, disturbs, injuries or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of a reasonable person in the unincorporated area of the county.
(Code 2000, § 26-172; Ord. No. 00-2, § 2, 4-4-2000)
Sec. 34-80. - Violations.
The following acts are declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this article, but this enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
(1)
Radios, phonographs, and musical instruments. The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, jukebox or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in a manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of a reasonable person or at any time with a volume louder than necessary for the convenient hearing of the person who is in the room, vehicle or chamber in which the machine or device is operated and who is a voluntary listener thereto. The operation of any set, instrument, phonograph, jukebox, machine or device between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet from the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this article.
(2)
Animals, birds, etc. The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or long-continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of a reasonable person in the vicinity. This section shall not apply to horses, livestock, poultry or other farm animals, provided they are maintained in accordance with county zoning regulations or ordinances.
(3)
Horns and signaling devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public place in the unincorporated area of the county, except as a danger warning; and the creation of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound by means of any signaling device and the sounding of any device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
(4)
Streets adjacent to schools, courts, churches, and hospitals. The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or court while in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the normal operation of that institution, or which would disturb or unduly annoy a reasonable person in the hospital, provided that conspicuous signs are displayed in those streets indicating a school, hospital or court street.
(5)
Motorcycles, go-carts, and other motor vehicles. The operation of a motorcycle, motorized scooter, go-cart, all-terrain vehicle or other motorized vehicle in a manner which creates excessive noise, including the continuous riding of any such vehicle past, around or near an inhabited dwelling place so as to disturb or unduly annoy a reasonable person.
(Code 2000, § 26-173; Ord. No. 00-2, § 3, 4-4-2000)
Sec. 34-81. - Penalties.
Any person who shall violate the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or 60 days in prison or both as provided by O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60. Jurisdiction for violations of this article shall be within the magistrate court of the county.
(Code 2000, § 26-174; Ord. No. 00-2, § 4, 4-4-2000)
Sec. 34-82. - Prosecution for violations.
Prosecution for violations of this article shall be upon citation as provided by O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63 and said citation shall be tried in the magistrate court without a prosecuting attorney for each citation issued and the prosecution thereof shall conform to the requirements as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63. The chief magistrate of the county is further authorized to establish a cash bond for the personal appearance in court of any person charged with the violation of this article pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63.1.
(Code 2000, § 26-175; Ord. No. 00-2, § 5, 4-4-2000)
Sec. 34-83. - Power to enforce this article.
The sheriff, any deputy, and the code enforcement officer of the county shall have the authority to enforce the provisions of this article.
Secs. 34-84—34-109. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - JUNK[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Junk or metal dealers records, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-350 et seq.; control of junkyards, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-240 et seq.; authority to provide by ordinance for removal and disposal of junked vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-4; purchase and resale of used motor vehicles and used parts, O.C.G.A. § 40-4-40 et seq.; abandoned motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1 et seq.; when police officers may remove vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-206; nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.; jurisdiction of municipal court or magistrate court to abate nuisance, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5; junk dealers, O.C.G.A. § 43-22-1 et seq.; Used Motor Vehicle Dismantlers, Rebuilders and Salvage Dealers Registration Act, O.C.G.A. § 43-48-1 et seq.; removal of improperly parked cars or trespassing personal property, O.C.G.A. § 44-1-13.

Sec. 34-110. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Inoperable condition means a condition that prevents its use for the purpose for which it is originally manufactured.
Junk means any automobile, motor vehicle, mechanized equipment, machinery, appliance, scrap metal or other scrap material that has been located on the property for a period of 30 days or longer in an inoperable condition.
(Code 2000, § 26-91; Ord. No. 88-1, § 1, 6-14-1988)
Sec. 34-111. - Purpose.
It is the purpose of this article to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the residents of the county by eliminating the storage or accumulation of junk that would otherwise be harmful and dangerous to the public health, safety and welfare of the residents of the county and would further constitute an unsightly nuisance.
(Code 2000, § 26-92; Ord. No. 88-1, § 5, 6-14-1988)
Sec. 34-112. - Repair, removal.
Upon receipt of notice in writing from the building official, the owner or person in possession of any premises upon which is located any junk shall, within 30 days:
(1)
Repair such junk and place it in operable condition;
(2)
Cause such junk to be removed from the premises and disposed of in a manner so as not to constitute a violation of any ordinances of the county, and so as not to constitute a nuisance; or
(3)
Submit to the building official a plan satisfactory to that official for placing such junk in an operable condition within a time deemed by the building official to be reasonable under the circumstances.
(Code 2000, § 26-93; Ord. No. 88-1, § 2, 6-14-1988)
Sec. 34-113. - Penalty.
Any person failing to comply with the provisions of section 34-112 shall be tried in the magistrate's court of the county and upon conviction shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 2000, § 26-94; Ord. No. 88-1, § 3, 6-14-1988)
Sec. 34-114. - Abatement of nuisance by county.
Any junk remaining on premises in violation of the terms of this article after the procedures prescribed in this article have been followed is declared to be harmful and dangerous to the public health, safety and welfare and is declared to be a nuisance. The abatement of such junk shall be accomplished by the building official, and the cost of removal shall be assessed against the owner or person in possession of the premises; and the clerk of the board of commissioners shall be authorized and directed to issue an execution against the owner or person in possession of the premises for the amount expended in the removal of the junk. In furtherance of the authority and purposes contained in this article, the board of commissioners shall have authority to contract with private individuals and firms for the removal of such junk if it remains on the premises in violation of the terms of this article after the procedures prescribed in this article have been followed.
(Code 2000, § 26-95; Ord. No. 88-1, § 4, 6-14-1988)
Sec. 34-115. - Exceptions for junkyards.
Nothing contained within this article shall be deemed to apply to any motor vehicle or parts thereof that shall be located within the confines of any junkyard complying with the laws of the state relating to the licensing and regulating of motor vehicle junkyards.
(Code 2000, § 26-96; Ord. No. 88-1, § 6, 6-14-1988)
