Chapter 46 - ROADS AND BRIDGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Probate court's jurisdiction involving the removal of obstructions from roads, O.C.G.A. § 15-9-30.1; damaging public property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25; Georgia Code of Public Transportation, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-1 et seq.; governmental authorization for construction or maintenance of any private road unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-8; state, county and municipal road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-1 et seq.; county road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-40 et seq.; regulation of maintenance and use of public roads generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1 et seq.; inspection of and reports on roads and bridges by county police, O.C.G.A. § 36-8-6; grants for construction and maintenance of county roads, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-20 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 46-1—46-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - UTILITY INSTALLATIONS

Sec. 46-19. - Permit required.
All utility companies as described and defined under O.C.G.A. § 32-4-42 shall not install, construct, renew, remove or relocate upon any part of the county road system lying in the unincorporated areas of the county any pipe, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, towers, traffic and other signals, and other equipment, facilities or appliances of any utility without first obtaining a permit from the building official. No such permit shall be issued unless the utility shall pay a permit fee, established by ordinance, as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk and not until the utility shall post with the building official an indemnity bond or other acceptable security conditioned to pay any damages to any part of the county road system or to any member of the public caused by work of the utility performed under authority of such permit. It shall further be a condition of all such permits issued that it shall be the duty of the utility holding such permit to ensure that the normal operation of the utility does not unreasonably interfere with the use of the county road system.
(Code 2000, § 42-31; Res. of 6-4-1986)
Sec. 46-20. - Application for permit.
Any utility that requires a permit for the work described in this article shall, as a condition precedent to the granting of such permit, file an application in writing with the county manager specifically describing the nature, extent and location of the portion of the utility affected together with the required bond or security as described in this article, together with the required permit fee.
(Code 2000, § 42-32; Res. of 6-4-1986)
Sec. 46-21. - Removal, relocation or discontinuance of utility.
(a)
Where necessary by the construction, expansion, widening or maintenance of any part of the county road system lying outside the corporate limits of the City of Fitzgerald, the county may order the removal, relocation or discontinuance of the utility, equipment, facility or appliances located on the road. If the county should order the removal or relocation of a utility or in the performance of such work itself, the procedure to be followed by the county shall conform to the procedure set forth for the state department of transportation in O.C.G.A. §§ 32-6-171 and 32-6-173. It is further provided that the county may require the removal or relocation of any facility of a utility from the county road system when in the reasonable opinion of the county the facility constitutes an obstruction or interference with the use or safe operation of such road by the traveling public or when in the reasonable opinion of the county the facility will interfere with such contemplated construction or maintenance.
(b)
Whenever the county reasonably determines it necessary to have a utility facility removed or relocated, the county manager or the chairperson of the board of commissioners shall give to the utility at least 60 days' written notice directing the removal and relocation of such utility obstruction. If the utility does not thereafter begin removal with a reasonable time sufficient to allow for engineering and other procedures reasonably necessary for the removal and relocation of the utility facility, the county may give the utility a final notice directing that such removal shall commence not later than ten days from the receipt of such final notice.
(c)
If the utility does not within ten days from receipt of such final notice begin to remove or relocate the facility or having so begun removal or relocation thereafter fails to complete the removal or relocation within a reasonable time, the county may remove or relocate the same with its own employees or by employing or contracting for the necessary engineering, labor, tools, equipment, supervision or other necessary services or materials and whatever else is necessary to accomplish the removal or relocation; and the expenses of such removal or relocation shall be paid by the utility and may be collected by the county as provided by law and this article.
(Code 2000, § 42-33; Res. of 6-4-1986)
Sec. 46-22. - Applicability of state law.
The regulations provided in this article are not intended to be more restrictive with respect to utilities affected by this article than are equivalent regulations promulgated by the state department of transportation with respect to utilities on the state highway system under authority of O.C.G.A. § 32-6-174; and where these regulations conflict in any manner with the regulations promulgated by the department of transportation, the regulations of the department of transportation shall control. However, in every event, a permit shall be required for all work to be performed by a utility as described in this article.
(Code 2000, § 42-34; Res. of 6-4-1986)
Sec. 46-23. - Minimum requirements.
Included within this article is the installation of telephone lines, gas lines, water lines, sanitary sewer lines, electrical lines, fuel lines, TV cables, open storm drainage, storm sewers and other facilities. The following minimum requirements shall be adhered to where applicable:
(1)
The installation of an authorized facility shall be done under the direction and control of the county road superintendent, who shall be notified before work is commenced.
(2)
Request for breaking of pavement must be shown under special requirements of the application. Where breaking of pavement has been approved, a six-inch concrete slab will be poured over the backfilled trench and will rest on undisturbed soil. If the pavement is asphalt, the surface of the six-inch concrete slab will be 1½ inches below the surface of the abutting pavement. The 1½-inch section will be paved with Type D or E plant asphalt. The finished surface will be smooth and flush with abutting pavement.
(3)
Utilities running parallel with the road must be placed in the outer three feet with pipes to be at least three feet deep and trenches to be no more than 12 inches wide. Underground utilities must be marked.
(4)
In crossing roadways, the facility trench backfill will be made in six-inch layers and each layer firmly compacted.
(5)
Cost of installation, maintenance and repair of utility facilities is to be paid by the utility applying for the permit. Rights of abutting property owners are not affected, nor does the county assume responsibility for damages arising from the utility construction it authorizes.
(6)
The utility must reimburse the county for damages to the public road or its fixtures, such as bridges and guardrails, signs or drainage pipe; and payment must be made within 30 days after invoicing by the county.
(7)
If the board of commissioners decides to relocate or widen the existing road, the utility may be required to take up (both above- and below-ground type) and reinstall such sections of their equipment as good engineering practice requires; and the utility will bear the expense without regard to the type of road construction or maintenance work involved. The work shall be completed within 15 working days after notification by the county commissioners or within such other time as may be approved in writing by the county road superintendent.
(8)
The county road superintendent must give approval to a final inspection of utility construction.
(Code 2000, § 42-35; Res. of 6-4-1986)
