ARTICLE IV. - EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS AND HANDLING REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 6-149. - Alcohol awareness training certificate.
(a)
The applicant for a license under this chapter shall present to the city clerk a current certification of attendance at an approved alcohol awareness training program.
(b)
If the applicant lacks such training and certification, the applicant shall have 30 days from the date of the granting of the license to complete the training and submit certification to the city clerk or designee. Upon due cause being shown, the city clerk or designee may grant an extension of time, not to exceed 60 days, to complete said training. Failure to timely obtain such certification shall be grounds for revocation of the alcoholic beverage license.
(c)
Every employee who dispenses, sells, serves, takes orders for, or handles alcoholic beverages and all managerial staff shall also complete an approved alcohol awareness training program within 30 days of being employed.
(Ord. No. O-149-12, § 1, 6-21-2012)
Sec. 6-150. - Age requirements.
(a)
Except as provided in subsection (d), no wholesale dealer or package licensee shall allow any employee under the age of 18 years to dispense, sell, serve, take orders for, or handle alcoholic beverages.
(b)
No consumption on the premises licensee shall allow any employee under the age of 18 years to dispense, sell, serve, take orders for, or handle alcoholic beverages.
(c)
A licensed alcoholic beverage caterer shall not employ any person under 21 years of age who, in the course of such employment would dispense, serve, sell, or handle alcoholic beverages.
(d)
This section shall not prohibit the employment of persons under the above ages on licensed premises where such persons do not dispense, sell, serve, take orders for, or handle alcoholic beverages.
(e)
This section shall not prohibit persons 16 years of age or older who are employed in supermarkets or convenience stores from selling or handling alcoholic beverages which are sold for consumption off the premises.
(Ord. No. O-149-12, § 1, 6-21-2012)
Sec. 6-151. - Licensee's responsibility for employees.
The licensee is responsible for the conduct and action of his/her employees while in his/her employment. Should an employee be convicted or plead guilty or nolo contendere to the charge of sale or attempted sale of alcoholic beverages to any person under 21 years of age, the licensee employing such employee shall not permit such employee to sell, take orders for delivery, or to aid or assist in the sale or delivery, directly or indirectly, of alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. No. O-149-12, § 1, 6-21-2012)
Secs. 6-152—6-159. - Reserved.
