Chapter 58 - SEPTIC SYSTEMS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Incorporation and powers, article 1: powers and construction, § 1.12; government structure, article 2: city council, § 2.16; eminent domain, § 2.17; administrative affairs, article 3: city clerk, § 3.13; judicial branch, article 4: jurisdiction, § 4.13.
State Law reference— Air quality control rules are allowed under municipality's home rule powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(6), (13); municipalities have eminent domain power to construct, improve, maintain, and operate sewage system within its territorial boundaries, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5.

Sec. 58-1. - Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Absorption field means a configuration of absorption trenches installed in a portion of land and used for the absorption and final treatment of sewage.
Absorption line means a pipeline of perforated pipe laid in an absorption trench to serve as a conduit for sewage effluent.
Alternative on-site management system means any approved on-site sewage management system which differs in design or operation from the conventional or chamber septic tank system or privy.
Approved or approval mean compliance with applicable specifications or criteria developed or accepted by the city council.
Failure means a condition of an on-site sewage system that constitutes a public hazard by inadequate treatment and/or disposal of sewage.
Malfunctioning system means an on-site sewage management system that permits sewage to discharge or flow from it on said property, into any storm drain, stream, water body, gutter, street, roadway or public place, or if sewage discharges from said system to the surface or subsurface of any property so as to create a nuisance or a condition detrimental to health. Substantial backflow from the leaching area (absorption lines) into the tank during a tank pumpout shall also be considered an indication of a malfunctioning system as determined by a registered and certified service person employed by a septic system service company registered with the county.
On-site sewage management system means a sewage management system other than a public or community sewage treatment system serving one or more buildings, mobile homes, recreational vehicles, residences, or other facilities designed or used for human occupancy or congregation. Such term shall include, without limitation, conventional and chamber septic tank systems, privies, and experimental and alternative on-site management systems which are designed to be physically incapable of a surface discharge of effluent that may be approved by the Division of Public Health, State of Georgia.
Septic tank means an approved watertight tank designed or used to receive sewage from a building sewer and to affect separation and organic decomposition of sewage solids, and discharging sewage effluent to an absorption field or other management system.
Sewage means and includes human excreta, all water-carried wastes, and liquid household waste from residences or commercial and industrial establishments.
Sewage treatment system means a system that provides primary treatment and disposal, including absorption field components, devices and appurtenances intended to be used for disposal of sewage by soil absorption, but does not include a conventional or chamber septic tank system. The system shall be designed to be physically incapable of a surface discharge of effluent.
(Ord. No. O-26-05b, § 17-101, 10-6-2005)
Sec. 58-2. - Routine inspection, maintenance, repair and reporting.
The tank and field lines of all septic systems or other approved, on-site sewage management systems (hereinafter referred to as "septic systems") within the city shall be regularly serviced as required herein.
(1)
Required servicing of septic systems within the city must include inspection of the septic system components, repair of any deficiencies, malfunctions or damage, and pumping of the septic system's tanks. The maximum service interval for required septic system service shall not exceed five years from the date of the last certified inspection and service except as provided in section 58-7 of this chapter.
(2)
Tank and field line inspection, maintenance service, pumpout, and repairs shall be conducted by a septic tank contractor and service personnel certified by the state and registered with the county health department.
(3)
At least 90 days but no more than 125 days before the expiration of the five-year service period or extension granted thereto under section 58-7 of this chapter, a notice of service due will be mailed or emailed by the city clerk or his or her designee to the property owner.
(4)
Property owners who have their septic systems replaced, or inspected and serviced before their regularly scheduled interval without a notice of service due from the city clerk or property owners who did not receive such notice and would like to credit the procedure to their city record by reporting that service to the city clerk, can obtain appropriate forms from the city clerk. Any qualifying certified service will establish the beginning of the five-year interval.
(5)
Upon completion of the installation, required inspection, maintenance, and any necessary repairs to the septic system, the contractor shall certify that the work was conducted and completed in accordance with the accepted professional standards and practices and that the system is in good repair and proper working order by completing a Septic System Inspection and Compliance Statement. The contractor's Septic System Inspection and Compliance Statement must be accompanied by the detailed contractor's receipt for septic system services rendered. The property owner shall certify that he or she has had all septic system components, including the field lines, inspected, the septic tank or tanks pumped and any necessary repairs completed. The property owner or owners shall bear the responsibility for securing all documentation and completed forms related to compliance with this section and for providing those forms to the city clerk no later than the service interval deadline.
(6)
Reserved.
(Ord. No. O-26-05b, § 17-102, 10-6-2005; Ord. No. O-187-15, 7-1-2015; Ord. No. O-19-227, § 1, 9-19-2019)
Sec. 58-3. - Service requirements; extensions.
(a)
Requests for extensions to any deadline or time period identified within this chapter should be directed to the city clerk or his or her designee in a timely manner so as not to violate the design of this chapter. A property owner's intent to petition the city clerk or his or her designee for an extension on an impending deadline will not be deemed an excuse for failure to comply within the timeframe herein.
(b)
Once a property owner's petition has been taken under consideration by the city clerk or his or her designee, however, no penalty or further violation will accrue until the matter is decided, unless such violation is identified as creating a threat to public health and safety.
(c)
In the event that the septic system malfunctions during such time as a petition for extension is before the city clerk or his or her designee, the property owner must immediately remedy the septic system malfunction and withdraw the petition from further consideration.
(Ord. No. O-90-08, 7-26-2008)
Editor's note— Ord. No.O-90-08, adopted Jul. 26, 2008, repealed § 58-3, in its entirety and enacted new provisions to read as herein set out. Prior to amendment, § 58-3 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. O-26-05b, § 17-103, adopted Oct. 6, 2005.
Sec. 58-4. - Record maintenance.
The city clerk shall maintain the completed forms, transmittal letters, violations and any related septic system information with the city records.
(Ord. No. O-26-05b, § 17-104, 10-6-2005)
Sec. 58-5. - Malfunctioning systems.
(a)
An on-site sewage disposal system shall be deemed to be a malfunctioning system if sewage is allowed to discharge or flow from it on said property, into any storm drain, stream, water body, gutter, street, roadway or public place, or if sewage discharges from said system to the surface or subsurface of any property so as to create a nuisance or a condition detrimental to health. Substantial backflow from the leaching area (absorption lines/field lines) into the tank during a tank pump-out shall also be considered an indication of a malfunctioning system as determined by a registered and certified service person employed by a septic system service company registered with the county.
(b)
In addition, any and all parts of a septic system that are found by a registered and certified service person employed by a septic system service company registered with the county to be damaged, misaligned or missing, such as but not limited to a cracked lid, missing "T" or misaligned outflow line, shall constitute a malfunctioning system.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, all property owners with septic systems or other approved, on-site waste management systems shall be responsible for correcting the malfunctioning of such systems within 30 days from receipt of written notification, which notice shall communicate the specifics of the malfunction. Reporting of repairs shall be consistent with section 58-2.
(Ord. No. O-26-05b, § 17-105, 10-6-2005)
Sec. 58-6. - Violations.
(a)
Failure to have required inspections and servicing performed before the deadline provided in the notice for service due letter, and according to section 58-2 shall constitute a violation. Failure to submit the Septic System Inspection and Compliance Statement and copy of the septic service contractor's receipt for services rendered according to section 58-2(5) shall constitute a separate violation of said section. Each violation is subject to penalty.
(b)
Violations pertaining to required inspections and servicing and/or reporting may be punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 60 days, or both. Violations pertaining to required inspections and servicing accrue every 90 days and are deemed separate violations of this chapter, until such time as the requirements established in section 58-2 are met.
(c)
Violations of section 58-5 may occur if necessary repairs to the malfunctioning system are not conducted within 30 days, not reported properly, or are not performed by a certified service person. Please review sections 58-2(2), (4)—(6) and 58-5.
(d)
Violations pertaining to malfunctioning systems may be punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 60 days, or both. In addition, malfunctioning septic systems must be repaired within 30 days from the date of notification of violation. Failure to correct the malfunctioning system by the end of the 30 th day shall be construed to be a separate violation of this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-83-08, 5-15-2008; Ord. No. O-187-15, 7-1-2015)
Editor's note— Ord. No. O-83-08, adopted May 15, 2008, repealed § 58-6, in its entirety and enacted new provisions to read as herein set out. Prior to amendment, § 58-6 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. O-26-05b, § 17-106, adopted Oct. 6, 2005.
Sec. 58-7. - Basis for extensions.
Extensions to modify the five-year reporting and servicing requirement as specified in section 58-2 may be granted under certain conditions.
(1)
The owner of a septic system may seek an administrative extension based upon official extension guidelines. If the information provided on the completed petition for extension form indicates that said septic system can be serviced at an interval longer than five years, and the owner certifies the information on the form is accurate, then the petition for extension may be submitted for approval by the city clerk or his or her designee. Extensions to the maximum service interval for required septic system service are valid for a period of three years, subject to renewal upon re-qualification and shall be limited to a total maximum service interval of 11 years when combined with the original five-year interval. No extension shall be granted in the event that the most recent statement of inspection and service indicates existing or potential issues, damage or disrepair or if the information submitted is determined to be inaccurate. Granted extensions shall not convey with changes in ownership or rental occupancy.
(2)
Examples of consideration for an extension may include, but are not limited to:
a.
Usage significantly less than capacity of system;
b.
Nonfull-time occupancy; and
c.
Advanced technology septic system.
(Ord. No. O-90-08, 7-26-2008; Ord. No. O-187-15, 7-1-2015)
Editor's note— Ord. No. O-90-08, adopted Jul. 26, 2008, repealed § 58-7, in its entirety and enacted new provisions to read as herein set out. Prior to amendment, § 58-7 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. O-26-05b, § 17-107, adopted Oct. 6, 2005.
Sec. 58-8. - Duties of city clerk.
The city clerk shall maintain blank forms, completed forms, transmittal letters, violations and any related septic system information with the city records. In addition, the city clerk or his or her designee shall be responsible for review and approval/denial of septic system service and inspection extension requests.
(Ord. No. O-90-08, 7-26-2008)
Editor's note— Ord. No. O-90-08, adopted Jul. 26, 2008, repealed § 58-8, in its entirety and enacted new provisions to read as herein set out. Prior to amendment, § 58-8 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. O-26-05b, § 17-108, adopted Oct. 6, 2005.
