Chapter 66 - SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Incorporation and powers, article 1: powers and construction, § 1.12; administrative affairs, article 3: administrative and service departments, § 3.10; judicial branch, article 4: jurisdiction, § 4.13; finance, article 6: franchises, § 6.14; service charges, § 6.15; collection of delinquent taxes and fees, § 6.18.
State Law reference— Authority of municipalities to provide for garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2); Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.

Sec. 66-1. - Purpose.
The purpose of the rules and regulations contained in this chapter is to provide for the protection of the public health by prescribing the manner of storage, collection, transportation, and disposal of residential and industrial waste, rubbish, garbage and refuse.
(Code 2004, § 12-101)
Sec. 66-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bags means plastic sacks designed to store refuse with sufficient wall strength maintain physical integrity when lifted by the top. Total weight of a bag and its contents shall not exceed 35 pounds.
Bin means a plastic receptacle with a capacity of approximately 18 gallons designed for the purpose of curbside collection of recyclable materials.
Bulky waste means stoves, refrigerators, water tanks, washing machines, furniture and other waste materials other than construction debris or hazardous waste with weights or volumes greater than those allowed for containers.
Cart means a plastic receptacle with wheels and lid with a capacity of 90—95 gallons.
City means the City of Berkeley Lake, Georgia.
Collection means a person who, under agreements, verbal or written, with or without compensation, does the work of collecting and/or transporting solid waste from industries, offices, retail outlets, businesses, institutions, and/or similar locations, or from residential dwellings; provided, however, that this definition shall not include an individual collecting and/or transporting waste from his own single-family dwelling unit.
Commodity means material that can be sold in a spot or future markets for processing and use or reuse. Each commodity shall retain its own identity and be kept separate.
Commodity buyer means a buyer or processor of a commodity, selected by the contractor.
Construction debris means waste building materials resulting from construction, remodeling, repair or demolition operations.
Container means a receptacle, excluding carts, for the storage of refuse and having a tight-fitting lid. The weight of a container and its contents shall not exceed 50 pounds. A recyclable container shall be clearly marked as such, durable in nature and with a hinged top which will not allow materials to escape while at curbside.
Contract documents means the request for proposals, instructions to proposers, contractor's proposal, general specifications, the contract performance bond and any addenda or changes to the foregoing documents agreed to by the city and the contractor.
Contractor means the person, corporation or partnership performing refuse collection and disposal under contract with the city.
Disposal facility means any facility or location where any treatment, utilization, processing or deposition of solid waste occurs.
Disposal operation means the performance of solid waste disposal, including administration, personnel, land, equipment, design, and other elements necessary or used in the work of solid waste disposal.
Disposal site means a refuse depository including but not limited to sanitary landfills, transfer stations and waste processing/separation centers licensed, permitted or approved by all governmental bodies and agencies having jurisdiction and requiring such licenses, permits or approvals to receive refuse for processing or final disposal.
Franchisee means a waste hauler authorized by the city.
Garbage means every accumulation of waste (animal, vegetable, and/or other matter) that results from the preparation, processing, consumption, dealing in, handling, packing, canning, storage, transportation, decay, or decomposition of meats, fish, fowl, birds, fruits, grains, or other animal or vegetable matter (including, but not by way of limitation, used tin cans and other food containers; and all putrescible or easily decomposable animal or vegetable waste matter which is likely to attract flies or rodents); except, in all cases, any matter included in the definition of bulky waste, construction debris, hazardous waste, rubbish and yard trimmings.
Hazardous waste means waste, in any amount, which is defined, characterized or designated as hazardous by the United Stated Environmental Protection Agency or appropriate state agency by or pursuant to federal or state law. The term "hazardous waste" shall include motor oil, gasoline, paint, paint cans and items containing Freon or chlorofluorocarbons.
Industrial waste means waste materials generated in industrial operations.
Open dump means a disposal site at which solid waste from one or more sources is consolidated and left to decompose, burn, or to otherwise create environmental pollution or nuisance.
Producer means an occupant of a residential unit who generates refuse.
Putrescible wastes means wastes that are capable of being decomposed by microorganisms, including kitchen wastes, manure, offal, hatchery and poultry wastes, and garbage.
Reclamation means a controlled method of sorting and storing solid wastes for future use in accordance with an approved plan.
Recyclable material.
(1)
Newsprint;
(2)
Brown, clear and green glass and jars;
(3)
Aluminum and bimetal cans; and
(4)
HDPE clear plastic milk jugs and PET plastic soft drink containers.
Refuse means all garbage, rubbish and yard trimmings generated by a producer.
Residential unit means an occupied dwelling, whether a single-family home or a multifamily unit, within the corporate limits of the city requiring curbside collection.
Rubbish means all chips, shavings, sawdust, printed matter, paper, pasteboard, rags, straw, used and discarded clothing, used and discarded shoes and boots, combustible waste pulp and other products such as are used for packaging or wrapping, crockery or glass, ashes, cinders, floor sweepings, glass, mineral or metallic substances, and any and all other similar waste materials not included in the definition of bulky waste, construction debris, garbage, hazardous waste and yard trimmings.
Sanitary landfilling means a method of disposing of putrescible waste and/or hazardous waste and/or hazardous waste on land by placing an earth cover thereon.
Scavenge means uncontrolled picking from discarded waste materials.
Solid waste means putrescible and nonputrescible wastes, except water-carried body wastes, including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street refuse, dead animals, sewage, sludges, animal manures, industrial wastes, residue from incineration, food-processing wastes, construction wastes, hazardous wastes, and any other waste material in a solid or semi-solid state not otherwise defined in this chapter.
Solid waste handling means the storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing or disposing of solid waste or any combination thereof.
Transfer station means a facility used to transfer solid wastes from one transportation vehicle to another for transportation to a disposal facility.
Yard trimmings means all leaves, brush, grass, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping, development and maintenance other than mining, agricultural and silvicultural operations.
(Code 2004, § 12-102)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22.
Sec. 66-3. - Enforcement.
(a)
Generally. The director of roads and public works shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. In the exercise of his solid waste management duties, said director shall inspect and regulate the operations of private collectors and private transportation and disposal systems to ensure that such operations are in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
Limitations of authority. All regulatory actions of the director of roads and public works shall be subject to the review of the mayor and council.
(c)
Appeal. Any person aggrieved by a requirement of, or a fee charged by, the director of public works shall have the right to appeal to the mayor and council, which body may, upon hearing, confirm, modify or revoke such requirement or fee.
(Code 2004, § 12-103)
Sec. 66-4. - Precollection.
(a)
Generally. No person shall keep or store solid waste outside of any residence or building within the city, except in proper containers for collection or otherwise prepared, as set forth herein or under the express prior approval of the director of roads and public works. Any unauthorized accumulation of solid waste is declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. The director of roads and public works by written notice shall notify the owner or occupant of any premise with such solid waste accumulation to remove same. Failure to remove such accumulation within two weeks of the date of such written notice to do so shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and subject to penalties hereinafter set forth. A separate violation shall be deemed committed each day during or upon which such unlawful accumulation continues.
(b)
Containers.
(1)
All garbage containers shall be provided by the owner or occupant of each residence or establishment, by agreement with a franchisee or otherwise, sufficient in number to accommodate such waste generated by the residence or establishment between collections. Containers shall be of durable metal or plastic, watertight, nonabsorbent, rust-resistant, rodentproof, and easily cleanable. They shall be equipped with handles and tightly fitted covers and shall have a capacity of not less than ten gallons nor more than 35 gallons, except that bulk containers of a type accepted by the director of roads and public works as suitable for mechanical collection by authorized franchisees, such as carts, may be used for such collection. Containers failing to comply with these provisions or which have defects causing them to scatter waste upon the ground during collection or causing them to hamper or to injure the persons collecting waste shall be promptly replaced.
(2)
Disposable paper and plastic bags of a type, size and material designed for solid waste disposal may be used to contain refuse for storage and collection, provided they are unbroken, sealed, and loaded in such manner that normal handling will not cause the bag to open.
(c)
Rubbish.
(1)
Rubbish may be stored for collection in paperboard boxes or other throwaway containers strong enough to retain the waste;
(2)
Loose paper or cuttings shall be tied in bundles;
(3)
Rubbish containers or bundles shall not exceed 50 pounds in weight;
(4)
Limbs or cuttings shall not exceed four inches in diameter nor four feet in length; and
(5)
Rubbish containers or bundles shall be placed for collection beside the solid waste containers.
(d)
Placement. On days designated as collection days for the respective routes by the director of roads and public works, garbage and/or rubbish shall be placed for collection on the curb or beside the roadway in front of the residence or establishment owning same, or if the property abuts on an alley, at the rear of the property, but not in the gutter or in the street or alley in such manner as to interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic. Garbage, rubbish and recyclables shall not be placed on the right-of-way more than 24 hours in advance of pickup, and all empty containers shall be removed from the street within 24 hours after pickup.
(e)
Scavenging. No person other than the owner or authorized collection personnel shall sift the contents of or remove anything from containers, boxes or bundles containing garbage, rubbish or recyclables.
(Code 2004, § 12-104)
Sec. 66-5. - Collection.
(a)
Frequency. Garbage and rubbish shall be collected from residential premises at least once weekly, or such other frequency as may be established in the city's contract with the franchisee.
(b)
Collection vehicles. Vehicles used for collection and transportation of solid waste shall be kept clean and in good repair. They shall be constructed in such a manner that the contents thereof cannot be spilled, leaked, or blown from vehicle. They shall be readily identifiable by letters not less than three inches high and easily legible, painted on the door of the vehicle cab or in an equally conspicuous place, showing the owner's name, telephone number, state permit number, truck number, and rated load capacity in cubic yards. The rated load capacity shall be specified by the director of roads and public works following his measurement of the load-carrying portion of the truck body. Every property owner who owns property on which is located an occupied residential dwelling shall contract with a city-authorized solid waste contractor for waste disposal service.
(c)
Private collectors. No person shall collect, transport, or dispose of solid waste for pay in the city without having a franchise with the city to engage in such business.
(Code 2004, § 12-105)
Sec. 66-6. - Disposal.
All disposal of solid waste shall be at disposal sites operated in accordance with state laws and with rules and regulations of the state department of natural resources, and at no other place.
(Code 2004, § 12-106)
Sec. 66-7. - Regulations.
The following regulations are adopted in order to promote the safe, efficient and proper collection of garbage within the city:
(1)
Yard trimmings may not be placed in or mixed with any other type of municipal solid waste. Yard trimmings shall be placed at curbside for pickup with other municipal solid waste. Yard trimmings may also be disposed of by delivery of these materials to locations designated by the city. Yard trimmings should be sorted and stored in a manner to facilitate composting or other handling.
(2)
All standard containers placed at the curb for collection shall be securely tied and kept in a sanitary condition by the owner or person in possession or control thereof.
(3)
Standard containers shall not be filled beyond the point at which the bag can be securely tied.
(4)
Refuse to be collected by any special haul services shall be placed so as easily accessible to the collector.
(5)
All garbage containers shall be stored at the residence so as not to be visible from the street.
(6)
Collection of waste from residential properties and from any large commercial container (dumpster) located within 300 yards of a residential property shall only occur between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
(7)
For all dumpsters located within 300 yards of a residential property, there must be affixed a label meeting the following criteria:
a.
The label shall be weather-proof;
b.
The label shall be reflective;
c.
The label shall be at least 24 inches by 24 inches is size;
d.
The label shall be permanently affixed and placed facing outward, clearly visible to the driver of the collection vehicle;
The label shall state, in high-contrast lettering at least two inches in height, that the emptying of the container except between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, is a violation of subsection 66-7(6) and may result in a fine of up to $1,000.00 and/or up to 60 days jail.
(Code 2004, § 12-107; Ord. No. O-19-223, § 1, 6-20-2019)
State Law reference— Municipality required to impose restrictions on yard trimmings disposal, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.2.
Sec. 66-8. - Rates.
The rates and charges for residential, commercial, industrial and institutional service shall be as established in the agreement between the city and the approved hauler for the city.
(Code 2004, § 12-108)
State Law reference— Authority of municipality to levy, enforce collection of taxes, fees, and assessments for providing solid waste handling and collection services, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-39.3.
Sec. 66-9. - Burning of garbage prohibited.
No person shall burn or incinerate or cause to be burned or incinerated any refuse accumulations of animal, fruit or vegetable matter that attend the use and preparation of meat, fish, fowl, fruits or vegetables or any tin cans, glass jars or other containers originally used for foodstuffs nor any aerosol or pressurized containers within the city.
(Code 2004, § 12-109)
Sec. 66-10. - Burning of trash, paper, etc., prohibited.
(a)
No person shall burn or incinerate or cause to be burned or incinerated any rubbish, paper, pasteboard boxes, rags, straw, packing materials, shavings, and similar materials within the city, except in an incinerator equipped with spark arrestor devices and meeting all standards and requirements as may now be or as may hereafter be established by the air quality branch of the environmental protection division.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for builder's debris to be burned within the city limits.
(Code 2004, § 12-110)
Sec. 66-11. - Unlawful acts within city.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation other than the city, its franchisee, or employees, to collect garbage, refuse matter, filth, food scraps, litter, paper, decayed matter or matter liable to decay or liable to cause offensive odors or any other rubble or to interfere in any manner with any receptacle containing refuse, rubble, garbage or other waste or to remove any such receptacle from the place where the same are placed by the owner, agent or person lawfully in control thereof or to remove the contents of such receptacles.
(Code 2004, § 12-111)
Sec. 66-12. - Recycling.
The city or its franchisee shall provide collection bins for the purpose of recycling at the curbside. The city or its franchisee may also, from time to time, designate certain collection points where recyclable items may be brought to a designated collection bin. It shall be an offense punishable as stated in section 66-13 to place any garbage or household waste, other than recyclable items, in or around a designated recycling bin.
(Code 2004, § 12-112)
Sec. 66-13. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter may, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 for each offense and/or incarceration or community service not to exceed 60 days. Each day a violation occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. No. O-84-08, 5-15-2008)
Editor's note— Ord. No. O-84-08, adopted May 15, 2008, repealed § 66-13, in its entirety and enacted new provisions to read as herein set out. Prior to amendment, § 66-13 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Code 2004, § 12-113.
