Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; home rule municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Berkeley Lake, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 2004, § 1-101)
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
Words and phrases used in this Code shall have the following meanings, unless otherwise specified.
General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
Advice and consent. Whenever the term "advice and consent" of the city council is used in this Code, it shall be construed to mean an affirmative vote of the majority of the entire city council.
Boat. The term '"boat" means an inland vessel, relatively small, of an open craft design.
City. The terms "the city" and "this city" mean the City of Berkeley Lake, Georgia.
City council, council. The terms "city council" and "the council" mean the city council of the City of Berkeley Lake, Georgia.
County. The terms "the county" and "this county" mean the County of Gwinnett, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" means the municipal court of the city.
Gender; singular and plural. Every word in any code provision ordinance importing the masculine gender shall extend to and be applied to females as well as males; and every word importing the singular number only shall extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing; and every word importing the plural number only shall extend and be applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
Governing authority, governing body. The terms "governing authority" and "governing body" mean the mayor and city council of the City of Berkeley Lake, Georgia.
Judge. The term "judge" means the judge of the municipal court of the city.
Lake. The term "lake" means that large inland body of fresh water known as Berkeley Lake.
Mayor. The term "mayor" means the mayor of the City of Berkeley Lake, Georgia.
Mayor and council. The term "mayor and council" means the mayor and city council of the City of Berkeley Lake, Georgia.
Municipality. The term "municipality" shall be construed as synonymous with the term "city," "town" or "municipal corporation."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Ordinance. The term "ordinance" means a legislative act of the municipal governing body of a general and permanent nature.
Overlapping provisions. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as hereinafter defined.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property, and mixed estates and interests.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
Resolution. The term "resolution" means a legislative act of the municipal governing body of a special or temporary character.
State. The terms "the state" and "this state" mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means and includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, viaduct or bridge, and the approaches thereto, within the city.
Tenant andoccupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," when applied to a building or land, include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. The use of any verb in the present tense shall include the future when applicable.
Writing andwritten. The terms "writing" and "written" include printing and any other mode of representing words and letters including electronic.
(Code 2004, §§ 1-102, 1-103)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. §§ 1-3-2, 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section or subsection and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section or subsection, nor unless expressly so provided shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Code 2004, § 1-104)
Sec. 1-4. - Statutory definitions, etc.
The same rules shall be applied in construing provisions of this Code, and ordinances and resolutions of this city, as are applied in construing the statutes of this state, which rules are found in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1, and the same meanings are to be given words found in the ordinances as are given similar words found in the statutes of this state.
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal or expiration of Code section.
(a)
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When any ordinance repealing a former Code section, ordinance, clause or provision shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided.
(Code 2004, § 1-105)
Sec. 1-6. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code, which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code shall be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections, and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as the Code and subsequent ordinances omitted are readopted as a new Code by the city council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section ___ of The Code of the City of Berkeley Lake, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows…." The new provision may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Code of the City of Berkeley Lake, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or subsection or chapter) to be numbered ___, which section reads as follows…." The new provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, chapters, or provisions sought to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, chapter, or provision number, as the case may be.
(Code 2004, § 1-106)
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the mayor and city council.
(Code 2004, § 1-107)
Sec. 1-8. - Penalty where no penalty provided.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefore, the violation of such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall subject the person committing the violation to a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 60 days, or to both such fine and imprisonment, any or all of such penalties to be imposed at the discretion of the judge. Each day a violation occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct violation.
(b)
The infliction of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the city's Charter or Code.
(c)
Where a person fails or refuses to obtain a permit(s) when required for the doing of any act(s) under any provision of the Code of Ordinances of the city and as a result, a stop work order is issued, a fee of two times the original permit fee shall be imposed at the time the person obtains the applicable permit(s).
(Ord. No. O-70-08, 5-15-2008; Ord. No. O-89-08, 7-17-2008)
Editor's note— Ord. No. O-70-08, adopted May 15, 2008, repealed § 1-8, in its entirety. Prior to amendment, § 1-8 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Code 2004, § 1-108.
State Law reference— Maximum punishment municipality authorized to impose, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1(c); similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).
Sec. 1-9. - Severability.
It is the intention of the council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the council without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
Sec. 1-10. - Matters not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city, or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(3)
Any existing right or franchise granted by the city to any person.
(4)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, defining, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(5)
Any appropriation or ordinance authorizing appropriations.
(6)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor.
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting a plat or subdivision or regulating plats or subdivisions.
(8)
Any ordinance establishing salaries or compensation of city officers or employees not in this Code.
(9)
Any ordinance approving the budget.
(10)
Any ordinance adopted for purposes that have been consummated.
(11)
Any ordinance that is temporary, although general in nature.
(12)
Any ordinance that is special, although permanent in nature.
(13)
Any ordinance levying or otherwise relating to taxes.
State Law reference— Future operation of laws, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-5; limits on home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6.
