SECTION 9. - SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN USES

9-1 - Home occupations.
A home occupation as defined by this ordinance shall be governed by the following requirements:
9-1.1 Only residents of the dwelling may be engaged in the home occupation.
9-1.2 The home occupation shall be clearly incidental to the residential use of the dwelling and shall not change the essential residential character of the dwelling.
9-1.3 Only one sign of no more than six square feet shall be permitted to identify the home occupation.
9-1.4 Use of the building for this purpose shall not exceed 25 percent of the conditioned air space of the dwelling.
9-1.5 No internal or external alterations inconsistent with the residential use of the dwelling shall be permitted.
9-1.6 The occupation shall not constitute a nuisance in the neighborhood.
9-1.7 No accessory buildings or outside storage shall be used in connection with the home occupation.
9-1.8 The home occupation shall not be allowed any destination traffic trips that are related to the home occupation by outside clients or patrons.
9-1.9 Vehicles used primarily as passenger vehicles only shall be permitted in connection with the conduct of the customary home occupation.
9-1.10 The following and similar uses shall be considered home occupations provided that all additional requirements of this section are met: addressing service, answering service, architect, computer consulting, desktop publishing, drafting, manufacturing agent, pet sitting (off-site), and web design. Other professions and/or services which are essentially office or clerical in nature as approved by the land development administrator.
(Ord. No. 08100401, § 2, 8-10-2004)
9-2 - Home based business.
A home based business, as defined by this article shall be governed by the following requirements:
9-2.1 At least one resident and not more than one nonresident of the dwelling may be engaged in the home based business. The resident must be the owner of the home based business.
9-2.2 The home based business shall be clearly incidental to the residential use of the dwelling and shall not change the essential residential character of the dwelling.
9-2.3 No display of products shall be visible from the street and only products produced on the premises may be sold on the premises.
9-2.4 Only one point of business sign, not exceeding two square feet in size, motionless, non-lighted and attached to the principal building, shall be permitted.
9-2.5 Use of the dwelling for this purpose shall not exceed 25 percent of the conditioned air space of the dwelling.
9-2.6 No internal or external alterations inconsistent with the residential use of the dwelling shall be permitted.
9-2.7 The home based business shall not constitute a nuisance in the neighborhood.
9-2.8 Instruction in music and other tutorial services shall be permitted in two students at a time.
9-2.9 Vehicles used primarily as passenger vehicles only shall be permitted in connection with the conduct of the home based business.
9-2.10 No more than two nontransient guests may be boarded at any one time as a home based business.
9-2.11 The following and similar uses may be considered for approval as home based businesses provided that all additional requirements of this section are met: accountant, addressing service, answering service, architect, art instructor, barber or beauty shop (with no more than one chair), drafting, dressmaking, insurance agent, manufacturing agent, music teacher, notary public, photography, real estate agent, tax consultant, and other home based businesses as approved following planning commission review and county commission approval.
9-2.12 Not more than six children may be kept in the home as a customary home occupation. Safe, proper and efficient loading and unloading spaces must be supplied and at least 100 feet of outdoor play area is required for each child accommodated. The entire outdoor play area shall be enclosed by a steel mesh security fence with lockable gates approved by the building official or other substantial building material affording equal or better protection, having a minimum height of at least four feet and constructed in such a manner that maximum safety to the children is ensured.
(Ord. No. 08100401, § 2, 8-10-2004)
9-3 - Rural home occupations.
This provision is designed to provide for the reasonable development of rural home occupations as an accessory use to rural residential uses. Uses of property for the rural home occupation (RHO) shall be governed by the following requirements:
9-3.1 Property for which RHO is proposed shall be owner occupied and shall contain the minimum land area as set forth in this ordinance and the Berrien County Land Subdivision Ordinance and shall provide adequate parking area.
9-3.2 The accessory structure shall be located behind the residential structure and meet the side and rear building setback lines of the A-U land development district and all building code separation requirements shall apply. The accessory structure shall contain no more than 75 percent of the gross square footage of the principal residential dwelling.
9-3.3 Any rural home occupation shall be operated in such a manner as to not be a nuisance to adjacent residential structures. This shall apply to noise, lighting, traffic, and unsightly outside storage.
9-3.4 No display of products shall be allowed in the front yard.
9-3.5 Only one sign advertising the accessory use, not exceeding 16 square feet in size, motionless and non-lighted, shall be permitted in the conduct of the proposed RHO use.
9-3.6 All rural home occupations operating under this ordinance section shall provide designated off-street parking to the rear of the primary residential structures for customers of said RHO.
9-3.7 Any occupation that meets the intent of this ordinance may be considered for a special exception within an A-U land development district as described herein. This may include but is not limited to the following: catering service, motorized vehicle repair, printing or engraving shop, flower shop, furniture upholstery shop, locksmith or gunsmith, personal service shops, photography studio, specialty shops as they relate to the sale of items manufactured therein, and service oriented commercial activities associated with agricultural uses. Other uses as reviewed by the planning commission and approved by the county commission may be considered.
9-3.8 Any use approved as a rural home occupation which proposes outside storage shall provide for screening of the entire service or storage area as required in section 3-1.9 of this ordinance.
(Ord. No. 08100401, § 2, 8-10-2004)
9-4 - Manufactured housing parks.
Manufactured housing parks are allowed, provided the following requirements are met:
9-4.1 The minimum lot size shall be five acres.
9-4.2 Setbacks shall be as described in section 6, setback and yard requirements by district.
9-4.3 Each manufactured home shall be connected to an approved water and sewer system.
9-4.4 The minimum area per manufactured home space shall be not less than 21,780 square feet with a minimum individual space width of 150 feet. Individual manufactured home space requirements shall be as dictated by the rules and regulations of the Berrien County Board of Health and the land development ordinance minimums. All health department required plans shall accompany the required site plan for planning commission review.
9-4.5 All manufactured home spaces or other park sites devoted to accessory uses (such as management offices, laundry facilities, recreation buildings, etc.) shall have an interior setback of ten feet from its respective area boundaries. Residential accessory buildings associated with dwelling units shall be set back ten feet from its respective space boundaries, limit of one accessory building per manufactured home space.
9-4.6 A 60 foot interior drive, paved and properly drained for two-way traffic, 22 foot paving minimum, shall serve all manufactured home spaces and shall be drained so as to prevent damage to adjoining property, public or private.
9-4.7 Each manufactured home space and accessory use space shall be clearly defined by means of concrete, steel or iron pipe markers placed at all comers.
9-4.8 All property lines of a manufactured housing park which abut any land development district other than other MHP district shall be screened as described in section 3-1.9.
9-4.9 Prior to any application for land development district amendment, development or expansion, all manufactured housing park developments must be submitted to and reviewed by the greater planning commission and must receive their approval prior to the issuance of any building permits. Proper utility plans, drainage plans and road development plans, drawn to county specifications, shall accompany the proposed site plan for county staff review prior to submission to the planning commission. For the purpose of the development of the required plans, site plans for manufactured housing parks shall contain data equivalent to the preliminary plat requirements of the Berrien County Land Subdivision Ordinance. Construction drawings equivalent to the improvements plan process described in the Berrien County Land Subdivision Ordinance shall be required to be submitted to and approved by the Berrien County Engineer prior to the initiation of any manufactured housing park construction. All utility and streets construction must be completed prior to issuance of any building permits.
(Ord. No. 08100401, § 2, 8-10-2004)
9-5 - Rural farm housing.
In A-U districts, within the unincorporated areas of Berrien County, there shall be permitted, as a matter of right, to any owner of property as many as five residential uses on any parcel of land under single ownership where the following conditions can be met:
9-5.1 Occupants of nonprincipal residential uses shall be related by blood ties to the owner of the property and said blood relationships shall extend to but not beyond the second descending and ascending generation. This shall not apply to occupants that are full time employees of the property owner and are responsible for the agricultural production of the property.
9-5.2 Each such nonprincipal residential use shall occupy a land area not less than two acres in size and shall be clearly marked by corner markers.
9-5.3 Each such land area shall be given a numerical address and location designation.
9-5.4 Each such land area shall receive approval from established county health authorities as to its suitability as a site for an effective sanitary sewage disposal system designed to accommodate wastes generated by the user of that land site.
9-5.5 An acceptable domestic water supply shall be available to each satellite user of this special provision and such water supply shall meet local public requirements as administered by county health authorities.
9-5.6 No commercial use of this special provision will be allowed and no rental charge can be placed on the nonprincipal uses.
9-5.7 Each such use shall be accessible, either by private drive or public roadway, to the public thoroughfare system.
9-5.8 Individual power supply sources shall be provided to each user under this special provision and each utility installation shall meet such standards as have been adopted by Berrien County.
9-5.9 Facilities established under this special provision for residential use shall meet the requirements of local construction codes established by the Berrien County Commission.
9-5.10 Permits for construction will not be issued prior to the approval of each of the aforementioned conditions by the land development administrator. In addition, any change in use or occupancy must be approved by the land development administrator.
(Ord. No. 08100401, § 2, 8-10-2004)
9-6 - Commercial chicken houses.
All chicken house facilities shall be restricted to the A-U land development district and be located at least 600 feet from any residential dwelling or residential land development district, excluding any dwelling belonging to the owner of the poultry operation, as well as any commercial or industrial use. Setbacks for buildings shall be at least 150 feet from a public road or adjoining property line.
(Ord. No. 08100401, § 2, 8-10-2004)
9-7 Junkyard buffers.
An eight foot fence and six foot wide buffer strip, developed in accordance with section 3-1.9, shall be erected and properly maintained along all road frontages, all side lot lines and all rear yard lines of any junk yard.
(Ord. No. 08100401, § 2, 8-10-2004)
