SECTION 5. - SCHEDULE OF PERMITTED USES

5-1 - Table of permitted uses.
Within the various land development districts as indicated on the "Official Land Development Districts Map of Berrien County," no building, structure or land shall be constructed, erected, altered or used, except as indicated in the following schedules:
5-1.1 Uses permitted by right. Uses permitted as a matter of right are indicated on the following schedule by the letter "X" in the appropriate column.
5-1.2 Special exception. Uses permitted only after special review and approval of the board of county commissioners are indicated on the following schedule by the letters "SE" in the appropriate column. Requests to approve a use by special exception shall be advertised, reviewed and processed in the same manner as an amendment to the official land development districts map as described in section 14, Amendment.
5-1.3 Uses not allowed. Uses not specifically designated by an "X" or "SE" within the appropriate column are not allowed within the district.
5-1.4 Conflict of use interpretation. In the event of a discrepancy between the various provisions of this ordinance as relates to a particular use of land being allowed in a particular land development district, [this] section 5, Schedule of Permitted Uses, shall govern.
[5-2 - Land use.]
EXPAND
SECTION 5-2
LAND USE LAND DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT
AU RR R1A MHP RC GB
RESIDENTIAL AND RELATED USES
1. Accessory buildings or uses X X X X X X
2a. Animals, noncommercial keeping of horses as an accessory use to residential land uses, provided that in RR, R1A and MHP zones: X X X X X X
a) [Such use] shall only be permitted on a lot containing not less than two acres;
b) All buildings used to house the animals shall be set back not less than 150 feet from any property line;
c) All animals shall be maintained at least 50 feet from any property line, except property lines adjoining an AU zone; and
d) There shall be not less than 30,000 square feet of fenced lot area not covered by the principal structure for each animal.
2b. Animals, kennel, noncommercial, as an accessory use to residential land uses, provided that: X X X X X X
a) Minimum lot size of one acre (2 acres in AU) [is required];
b) All buildings used to house the animals shall be set back 100 feet from any property line.
3. Bed and breakfast, boardinghouse or roominghouse X X
4. Church or other place of worship, including Sunday School buildings, parish houses, convents, nursery schools, kindergartens (subject to developmental standards listed in use item #19) and other related uses on the same premises and operated by the church, provided that within RR, R1A, MHP, RC and GB zones: X X X X X X
a) [The] lot must front collector or arterial street;
b) The lot size shall be no less than 2 acres;
c) Any building or structure established with any such use shall have minimum side and rear yards of 50 feet.
5. Dwelling, single-family X X X SE
6. Dwelling, two-family (duplex) X X X
7. Family personal care home X SE SE
8. Garage apartment, provided, no more than one shall be permitted on a lot with the principal dwelling, and, provided, such shall be permitted only within the rear yard. X SE SE
9. Group personal care home, provided that: X SE X
a) Minimum lot size of 1 acre in all zones (except AU, which requires 2 acres);
b) Parking is restricted to rear and side yard and shall be screened per section 3-19.
10. Guest quarters, farm workers or servant quarters, provided, no more than one shall be permitted on a lot with the principal building and, provided, such shall be permitted only within the rear yard. Within RR and R1A zones, the lot on which such use is to be established must be 50 percent greater in lot area than the minimum standard lot size for the respective district. X X X
11. Home occupation (see section 9) X X X X X X
12. Manufactured home, individually sited, provided that: X X X X
a) The manufactured home shall meet the same minimum square footage, setback and yard requirements as any other single-family dwelling; and
b) [The manufactured home] must be installed and anchored as per Georgia State minimum requirements, properly underpinned or skirted within 45 days with material comparable to the proposed manufactured home.
13. Manufactured housing parking, provided that: X
a) Access to manufactured housing parks shall be by paved street and directly abut an arterial or collector street as designated on the Major Thoroughfare Plan [of] Berrien County, Georgia; and
b) The manufactured housing park meets the requirements of section 9-4 of this ordinance.
14. Publicly owned recreation centers, YMCA and institutions of a similar nature SE X X
15. Schools, public or private, elementary through high school. SE SE SE X X
16. Schools, kindergartens, nurseries and day care centers, provided that: SE X X
a) Off-street loading and unloading spaces are supplied; and
b) At least 100 square feet of outdoor play area is supplied for each child accommodated; and
c) The entire play area is enclosed by a security fence with locked gates approved by the code enforcement officer, made of building material affording equal protection, having a minimum height of at least 4 feet and constructed in such a manner that maximum safety to the children is ensured;
d) Lot must front a collector or arterial street as specified on the major thoroughfare plan.
BUSINESS USES
17. Adult entertainment establishments, provided that:
a) No adult entertainment establishment shall advertise its location by signs more than six inches in height placed on the front of the building, which shall state the name of the business and hours of operation only.
b) No adult entertainment establishment shall advertise its location with flashing or other kinds of lights, signs, banners or other devices intended to attract the attention of the general public to its location.
c) Adult bookstores shall maintain all windows in a clear, unobstructed manner, so as to provide an open and unobstructed view through the interior of the bookstore.
d) Adult movie houses shall maintain all windows in a clear and unobstructed manner, so that the entire reception area, lobby and ticket sales area of the theater is open and unobstructed to view by the public from all adjoining public thoroughfares and rights-of-way.
e) Adult service establishments (bathhouses, movie houses, etc.) shall maintain all windows in a clear and unobstructed manner, so that the entire reception area, lobby and ticket sales area of the service establishment is open and unobstructed to view by the public from all adjoining public rights-of-way.
18. Amusement or recreational activities (commercial), carried on outside a building, such as a golf or baseball driving range, and uses of a similar nature. SE SE X X
19. Amusement or recreational activities (commercial), carried on outside a building, which produces noise and/or noxious fumes, such as drag racing strips, racetracks and uses of a similar nature.
20. Amusement or recreational activities (commercial), carried on wholly within a building, such as a cinema, theater, auditorium and uses of a similar nature. X
21. Animal hospital, commercial kennel, veterinary clinic or animal boarding place, located at least 300 feet from the nearest residential district. SE X
22. Art studio X X
23. Automobile service station (outside storage of materials or equipment, other than merchandise offered for sale, are prohibited in a RC or GB district.) X X
24. Automobile, truck, farm equipment or motorcycle sales, repair or upholstery, auto washerteria, paint shops or tire recapping, (including rebuilding of parts or sales of parts and equipment indoors only. No outside storage of equipment or parts [is permitted], except for in WLI and HI districts.) X
25. Automobile parking lot or parking garage (commercial) SE X
26. Bait and tackle store SE SE X X
27. Banks, financial institutions and offices X X
28. Bookbinding, printing, engraving, blueprinting, photostating or letter shop X X
29. Building contractor and related activities and storage of building supplies and materials, provided that equipment and materials temporarily stored or displayed outside shall be completely enclosed by a fence approved by the code enforcement officer. X
30. Business schools (private) SE
31. Catering service X X
32. Clothing and dry goods stores, including shoe stores, men's shops, women's shops, variety stores and stores of a similar nature. SE X
33. Clubs or lodges (private) SE SE X X
34. Convenient store. (All establishments, including fuel service operations, shall only be permitted as a special exception). X X
35. Cultural facilities, libraries, museums and similar facilities. SE SE X X
36. Dance school or studio X X
37. Department stores SE X
38. Drive-in restaurants SE X
39. Drive-in theater X
40. Drugstores X X
41. Electrical repair and similar repair of a heavy commercial nature. X
42. Electrical appliance repair X X
43. Experimental laboratory SE SE X
44. Freight express office X
45. Farmers' market SE SE X
46. Farm supplies, including feed, seed, insecticides and fertilizers. SE X
47. Flower shop X X
48. Foodstores, including retail bakeries, meat markets, dairy products, confectioner shops and stores of a similar nature. X X
49. Funeral homes SE X
50. Furniture upholstery shop SE X
51. Glass sales and storage, wholly contained within a building. X
52. Golf course, lighted X
53. Golf course, provided that: SE SE SE SE X
a) It shall be for daytime use only; and
b) All greens and fairways shall be set back at least 100 feet from any exterior property lines; and
c) Structures shall meet minimum setback requirements for single-family residences within the respective district.
54. Home furnishings and hardware, such as appliance sales, hardware stores, furniture stores and stores of a similar nature. SE X
55. Hospitals, nursing homes, care homes and congregate personal care homes, provided that: SE SE
a) The lot size shall be no less than 3 acres within any district where allowed; and
b) Any building or structure established with any such use shall have minimum side and rear yards of 50 feet; and
c) The setback shall be 25 feet more than required for other structures within the same district; and
d) The lot upon which any hospital is built shall front on an arterial or collector street as specified on the major thoroughfare plan.
56. Hotels SE SE
57. Laboratory serving professional requirements, medical, dental SE SE
58. Laundromats X X
59. Locksmith, gunsmith X X
60. Medical, dental or similar clinic SE SE
61. Motels SE SE
62. Music teaching studio X X
63. Neighborhood dry cleaning plants, laundry pickup stations: X X
a) The dry cleaning plant and its operation shall meet the requirements of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) and the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.; and
b) The dry cleaning plant shall serve not more than one pickup and delivery station, exclusive of one occupying the same premises as the plant; and
c) The building for a dry cleaning plant shall not contain more than 4,000 square feet of floor area, inclusive of dry cleaning pickup facilities within the building; and
d) The dry cleaning plant shall be designed to operate in a manner that will not emit smoke or odor or objectionable waste materials and which will not produce noise that will carry beyond the walls of the building occupied by such plant; and
e) Fuel for operation of equipment shall be smokeless fuel; and
f) The applicant for the dry cleaning plant shall certify in writing at the time of application that all of the above conditions will be met.
64. Newspaper or periodical production, sales and distribution X
65. Newspaper or periodical publishing X X
66. Nightclub or lounge SE
67. Office equipment sales and service X
68. Pawnshops and small personal loan offices other than commercial banks. SE X
69. Personal service shops, such as barbershops, beauty shops, shoe repair, watch repair and services of a similar nature. X X
70. Pest control, providing no outside storage other than within a WLI or HI district. X
71. Photography studio X X
72. Produce sales, seasonal SE SE SE X X
73. Radio and television studios X X
74. Utility substation, located at least 200 feet from adjacent property lines on any lot which adjoins any residential district. X SE X
75. Railroad or bus passenger station X X
76. Railroad freight station X
77. Restaurants X X
78. Retail auto parts and tire stores SE X
79. Residential mobile home sales room and lot X
80. Security worker housing SE SE
81. Shrubbery sales X X
82. Specialty shops, such as gift shops, jewelry stores, jewelry repair, antique shops and stores of a similar nature. X X
83. Taxidermist X
84. Tax office SE X
85. Telecommunications towers, including cell towers: SE SE SE SE
1. Provided all structures are set back from property lines and right-of-way lines the required distances for each district, plus 1 foot for every two feet above the height requirements of that district.
2. Towers for telecommunication services will not be permitted within 500 feet of each other, measured from the base of tower to base of tower.
86. Telegraph or messenger service X
87. Temporary care giving residence SE SE SE SE
88. Travel trailer park, provided that: SE X
a) No travel trailer nor RV park shall be located except with direct access to a principal or minor arterial with a minimum lot width of not less than 50 feet for that portion used for the entrance and exit. No entrances or exits shall be through a residential district, or shall require movement of traffic from the park through a residential district.
b) The minimum lot area required for a travel trailer park shall be three acres.
c) Spaces in a travel trailer park may be used by travel trailers, provided, they shall be rented by the day or week only, and an occupant of such space shall remain in the trailer park for a period of not more than 30 days.
d) Management headquarters, recreational facilities, toilets, showers, laundry facilities and other uses and structures customarily incidental to operation of a trailer park are permitted as accessory uses in any district in which travel trailer parks are allowed, provided such establishments and the area primarily related to their operation shall not occupy more than ten percent of the area of the park.
e) No space shall be located so that any part intended for occupancy for sleeping purposes shall be within 20 feet of the exterior property lines.
f) In addition to meeting the above requirements, the travel trailer park site plan shall be accompanied by a certificate of approval from the Berrien County Health Department.
89. Utility trailer rentals and rent-alls X
97. Reserved
MANUFACTURING, WHOLESALE AND INDUSTRY
90. Feed, grain or fertilizer wholesaling and storage (not including farming and agricultural operations).
91. Freezer locker service, ice storage
92. Greenhouse and plant nursery (commercial) SE SE X X
93. Heavy manufacturing. The like which produce noise, odor, dust, fumes, fires, hazards or other nuisance features shall be set back not less than 500 feet from any HI district boundary.
a) Asphalt or concrete plant
b) Battery manufacturing
c) Bone distillation
d) Corrosive acids manufacture
e) Drop forge industry
f) Fat or oil manufacture (including fat rendering)
g) Fertilizer manufacture
h) Grain mill product manufacture
i) Leather tanning manufacture
j) Linoleum manufacture
k) Luggage manufacture
l) Lumber manufacture (lumber saw mill and storage)
m) Meat processing plant
n) Metal product manufacturing
o) Organic materials reduction
p) Petroleum refining and related industry
q) Pulp or paper mill
r) Rubber or plastic product manufacture
s) Stone, clay or glass manufacture
t) Transportation equipment manufacture
93. Junkyard or auto graveyard, provided that:
a) Minimum lot size of five acres is required; and
b) Front yard setback is increased 50 feet over requirements for other uses in WLI and HI zones;
c) Must be set back 500 feet from any district boundary, except from a road right-of-way; and
d) The entire junkyard or auto graveyard shall be screened as required in section 3-19.
94. Light manufacturing:
a) Appliance and electronic device assembly plant, including the manufacturing of parts for appliances and electronic devices; and
b) Manufacturing of food, cosmetics and pharmaceutical products, but not including fish and meat products, sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast and rendering plants; and
c) Machine shop and related activities; and
d) Construction of signs, including painted signs; and
e) Cooperage; and
f) Bottling and canning plants; and
g) Light sheet metal products, such as ventilating ducts and eaves; and
h) Ice manufacturing; and
i) Laundry, cleaning and dyeing plants; and
j) Musical instruments, toys, novelties and similar products; and
k) Ceramic products, provided that kilns shall only be by gas or electricity; and
l) Assembly of products from previously prepared materials; and
m) Tinsmith and roofing services; and
n) Other manufacturing, processing, packaging or handling of a similar nature, which shall not omit or produce more smoke, noise, odor, dust, vibration or fumes than the uses listed herein.
95. Lumberyard, coal storage yard or other storage not specifically listed in this column.
96. Petroleum storage (wholesale storage and wholesale distribution)
97. Railroad classification and repair yard
98. Sale of livestock (commercial sales and/or auction facility) SE SE
99. Sanitary landfill or incineration
100. Truck terminal SE
101. Warehousing (not related to sales on the premises)
102. Warehousing (mini storage facility). Storage for personal - property must be wholly contained within a building.
103. Wholesaling (not covered in other parts of this list) SE
AGRICULTURAL AND RELATED USES
104. Amusement or recreational activities (resource oriented), such as parks, marinas, bird sanctuaries, botanical gardens, archery ranges and commercial fishing ponds. SE SE
105. Amusement or recreational activities,[such as] hunting and shooting preserves and clubs, go-cart tracks, skateboard areas and paint ball ranges. SE
106. Agricultural experimental laboratory and/or facilities SE SE
107. Commercial chicken houses SE
108. Cotton gin SE
109. Crop dusting service. In AU [districts], if landing strip is associated with [such] activity, the landing strip must be set back 500 feet from all property lines. SE
110. Fish hatcheries X
111. Forestry/plant nurseries (tree farms) X
112. Horticultural production, including related retail and wholesale activities. X
113. Peanut drying facility (commercial) SE
114. Riding or boarding stables X
115. Rodeo or horse show SE
116. Worm farm X
117. Vegetable packing and sorting facility SE
118. Vineyards X
MISCELLANEOUS
119. Armories, for meetings and training organizations. X
120. Carnival or athletic event, community fair or other event of interest to the public, not to exceed 30 days. SE SE X X
121. Cemetery (commercial) SE SE X
122. Flea market X
123. Religious meetings, held in a tent or other temporary structure, not to exceed 30 days. SE SE X X
124. Temporary buildings and storage of materials (in conjunction with construction of a building) on a lot where construction is taking place or on adjacent lots, such temporary uses to be terminated upon completion of construction. X X X X X X
125. Temporary batch plants and construction related facilities for a single development SE
