Chapter 46 - ROADS AND BRIDGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 10; environment, ch. 22; floods, ch. 26; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 34; subdivisions, ch. 54.
State Law reference— County road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-40 et seq.; power to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, streetlights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 46-1. - Damage to road prohibited; authority to cite violations.
(a)
No person or entity shall cause damage to any road in the county road system, either a graded or paved road. Damage shall include, but shall not be limited to, intrusions, penetrations or cuts in the road surface caused by equipment (agricultural, logging or construction) or improperly maintained motor vehicles. Damage shall also include damage to the shoulders which shall include, but not be limited to, displacement of soil, filling of shoulders and ditches, destruction of or removal of trees and destruction of grass or soil erosion prevention vegetation.
(b)
The road superintendent is hereby authorized to issue a citation for violations of this section.
(Ord. of 3-24-2003, § I, II)
Secs. 46-2—46-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ROAD NAMING

Sec. 46-31. - Petition by adjoining property owners; automatic approval.
(1)
All requests for roads to be named must be accompanied by a petition bearing the name and signature of each and every property owner whose property adjoins the road in question. Any request with a legitimate property owner dissenting will not be considered for automatic approval.
(2)
Upon presentation of a petition containing all signatures of property owners, with no dissention, the Berrien County Commission will then make the final and binding decision to agree or deny to officially naming the road in question. This decision must be entered in the official minutes of the meeting to become law. Upon the adoption and signing of the minutes following a regularly scheduled meeting, the road naming shall be therefore legal, official, and binding.
(Ord. of 3-2-1992, § A, Ord. of 3-29-2004, § A)
Sec. 46-32. - Procedure in case of dissention.
(1)
Upon presentation of a petition to name a certain road, with any individuals opposing, the commissioners will postpone a decision until the next regularly scheduled meeting, and instruct the county clerk to cause a certified letter to be sent to the dissenting property owner or owners. This letter shall advise them of the request before the commission, and allow them the opportunity to appear before the commission at the next regularly scheduled meeting, to present their reasons for dissention. A copy of this article shall accompany the certified letter. Upon hearing both parties in the matter, the decision of the commission will be final. Failure of dissenting party to appear after being notified will be taken as approval of the decision to name the road as requested. A written response, however, may be considered if notarized affirmation of a hardship that would preclude the dissenting individual from appearing in person accompanies.
(2)
After appearance of dissenting parties, or their appropriate letters of dissention explaining their reasons for dissention, the decision of the county commissioners will be final.
(Ord. of 3-2-1992, § B, Ord. of 3-29-2004, § B)
Sec. 46-33. - Placement of signs.
Once formal naming is complete, the commissioners will cause signs to be purchased from county funds and erected at the appropriate locations by the county road superintendent.
(Ord. of 3-2-1992, § C, Ord. of 3-29-2004, § C)
Secs. 46-34—46-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - UTILITIES ON RIGHT-OF-WAY

Sec. 46-61. - Responsibility for facilities; relocation.
(a)
The county assumes no responsibility for utility facilities installed on county rights-of-way. The county will use reasonable care and caution to prevent damage to such facilities.
(b)
If the board of commissioners decides to widen, pave or improve any road on which utilities have been placed within the county right-of-way, the entire expense of relocation of such utilities shall be borne by the utility company owning such facilities.
(Ord. of 11-4-1985, § II)
Sec. 46-62. - Restoration of road, shoulder and ditches.
(a)
The utility company, its agents, servants or employees, subsequent to any repair, inspection, relocation or installation of any equipment, device or property by the utility company, shall not leave the shoulders or surface of any road located within the county in such a condition as to be a traffic hazard, or to cause erosion to the roadway, shoulders or ditches.
(b)
Grass cover and other vegetation on the shoulders and bank slopes shall be left in substantially the same condition as before the utility work was commenced.
(Ord. of 11-4-1985, §§ I, III)
