SECTION 3. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

3-1 - Interpretation and application.
In interpreting and applying these regulations, the requirements contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements necessary to carry out the purpose of these regulations. Except as hereinafter provided, these regulations shall not be deemed to interfere with, abrogate, annul or otherwise affect in any manner whatsoever any easements, covenants or otherwise agreements between parties.
3-2 - Land development affects all land and buildings.
No buildings, structures or land shall be used or occupied, and no building, structure or part thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, enlarged or structurally altered unless in conformity with the regulations of this ordinance.
3-3 - Every use must be upon a lot.
No building or structure may be erected or use established unless upon a lot as defined by this ordinance, except as provided in section 3-21.
3-4 - Only one principal building per lot.
Except as herein provided (see section 3-29), there shall be no more than one (1) principal building or structure upon any lot in any residential district.
3-5 - Open space not to be encroached upon [or reduced].
No open space shall be encroached upon or reduced in any manner, except in conformity to the yard, setback, off-street parking space requirements and such other regulations required by this ordinance for the district in which such building is located. Shrubbery, driveways, retaining walls, fences, curbs, outdoor lighting and planted buffer strips shall be interpreted not to be encroachments of yards. (See section 3-17.)
3-6 - Required open space may not be used by another building.
No part of any yard, other open space, or off-street parking or loading space required in connection with any building, structure or use by this ordinance shall be considered to be part of a required yard, other open space, or off-street parking or loading space for any other building, structure or use, except as provided in section 7-6.
3-7 - Reduction of yards or lot area.
Except as provided in section 3-21, no lot existing at the time of passage of this ordinance shall be reduced, divided or changed so as to produce a tract of land which does not comply with the minimum dimension or area requirements of this ordinance for the district in which it is located, unless said reduction or division is necessary to provide land that is needed and accepted for public use.
3-8 - Encroachment on public rights-of-way.
No building, structure, nor any mandated buffer requirements, service area, or required off-street parking and loading facility or outdoor lighting, except driveways, shall be permitted to encroach on public rights-of-way.
3-9 - Location of accessory buildings or uses.
Accessory buildings on residential lots, when located within a front or side yard, shall be located no closer to property lines than would be allowed for a principal building. Within a rear yard, an accessory building on a residential lot shall be located at least five feet from all rear property lines and eight feet from all other property lines, except that in the case of corner lots, accessory buildings shall be set back from the centerline of an abutting street right-of-way a distance equal to three-fourths the front yard setback established for the land development district in which the accessory buildings are located. In the case of a through lot (see section 3-11), accessory buildings shall conform to front yard setbacks on both streets. Accessory buildings or uses on nonresidential lots shall comply with front, side and rear yard requirements established for the land development district in which such buildings or uses are located.
3-9.1 Accessory building on separate lot. An accessory building may be permitted, as a special exception only by the county commission, on a separate lot from the lot of the principal building, provided that: (a) the lot upon which the accessory building is to be located shall be within 400 feet of the principal use; and (b) all requirements, including use restrictions, established for the land development district in which such accessory building is to be located shall be complied with; and (c) any structure or building erected shall meet the requirements of the Georgia State Building Code and shall be approved by the building inspector. In addition to the above requirements, the county commission may require design features, such as buffer strips, screening, etc., as may be found necessary to protect the purposes of this ordinance.
3-9.2 Swimming pools. Swimming pools (both in ground and above ground exceeding 24 inches in depth) accessory to residences or commercial uses shall be enclosed by a fence. Said fence shall have a minimum height of four feet and include a secured gate approved by the code enforcement officer. Any pool, screened in, is exempt from this section. All swimming pools in existence at the time of the adoption of this ordinance shall comply with this section on or before September 1, 2005.
3-9.3 Separation from principal use. Any accessory building of more than eight feet in height shall be located at least ten feet from the principal building.
(Ord. of 8-23-2003, § 3)
3-10 - Every lot shall have access to it.
Every lot shall have access to it that is sufficient to afford a reasonable means of ingress and egress for emergency vehicles as well as for all those likely to need or desire access to the property in its intended use.
(Ord. of 8-23-2003, § 4)
3-11 - Lots with multiple frontage.
In the case of a corner lot, side yard setback requirements from the centerline of the street right-of-way shall be equal to 75 percent of that required for the front yard setback for the respective land development district. On a corner lot where the main entrance into a residence is facing a side yard, it shall be permissible for purposes of this ordinance to interpret the residence to be fronting on the street other than that street which said entrance faces, and side and rear yard requirements may be provided accordingly. If a building is constructed on a through lot having frontage on two or more roads not at an intersection, a setback from each road shall be provided equal to the front yard requirement for the district in which the lot is located.
3-12 - Visibility at intersections.
On corner lots within all land development districts, no fence, shrubbery or other obstruction to the traffic sight vision, except utility poles or light or sign standards, shall exceed a height of three feet within a triangular area formed by the intersection of the right-of-way lines of two streets or a street intersection with a railroad right-of-way line, and a diagonal line which intersects the right-of-way lines at two points, each 20 foot distance from the intersection of the right-of-way lines, or, in the case of a rounded corner, from the point of intersection of their tangents; provided, however, signs, lights or similar objects which are totally located at least 12 feet above the finished grade shall be permitted.
3-13 - Uses prohibited.
If either a use or class of use is not specifically indicated as being permitted in a district, either as a matter of right or as a special exception, then such use, class of use or structures for such uses shall be prohibited in such district.
3-14 - Agricultural uses exempt.
Nothing contained in this ordinance shall prohibit the use of any land or building for agricultural purposes.
3-15 - Land development regulations to apply when lot is divided by district boundary line.
In the event that a district boundary line on the land development districts map divides a lot of record held in one ownership on this date of passage of the ordinance, each part of the lot so divided shall be used in conformity with the regulations established by this ordinance for the district in which such parcel is located; except, however, that if the property owner of such a lot so desires, he may extend a use allowed on either portion of said lot 50 feet beyond the district boundary line in accordance with setbacks and yard requirements of the district into which he [is] encroaching.
3-16 - Height limitations of walls and fences.
Within any residential district, no wall or fence shall exceed eight feet in height within or along a boundary of a rear or side yard. Within the front yard, all fences shall have a height limit of four feet.
3-17 - Required buffers in MHP, CA, RC, GB, WLI and HI districts.
In an MHP, CA, RC, GB, WLI and HI land development district, where a lot abuts any residential district, a six (6) foot wide buffer the entire length of the lot abutting the residential property shall be provided with screening as specified in section 3-19. Off-street parking associated with such uses shall be governed by this same provision.
3-18 - Screening of service areas within 150 feet of public street.
Any service area, loading area, refuse or storage area between a principal building and a public street being visible from said street and lying within 150 feet of said street shall be screened from view from the public street as specified in section 3-19.
3-19 - Screening required.
Wherever screening is required by this ordinance, a durable masonry wall, or fence and hedge of sufficient opacity to provide a visual blind, designed to be compatible with the character of adjoining properties, shall be provided and maintained by the owner and his successors and assigns. Such fences and walls shall be at least six feet in height, but no greater than eight feet in height, measured from the ground along the common lot line of the adjoining properties. Hedges or comparable natural plants shall be of such variety that an average height of at least six feet could be expected by normal growth within no later than three years from the time of planting. The owner/developer shall be responsible for annual maintenance of all vegetative screening and install the required screening prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy. Occupancy will not be allowed until the screening is completed as a part of the normal developmental requirements.
3-20 - Side and rear yards required next to railroad.
Within any land development district, side yard and rear yard standards shall be required adjacent to railroad rights-of-way.
3-21 - Substandard lots of record.
Any lot of record existing at the time of the adoption of this ordinance, which has an area or a width which is less than that required by this ordinance, may be used as a building site for a structure or use permitted in that zone; provided, however, that the same yard, setback, open space and other dimensional requirements are met that would be required for a standard lot, except as stipulated in section 3-25.
3-22 - Permitted modification of setback requirement.
When a building is proposed on a lot and when on either or both lots which adjoin such lot at the street right-of-way line there exists a principal building which does not conform to the setback requirements of this ordinance, the required setback for such building shall be as follows:
(1)
Where only one said adjoining lot contains a principal building with a nonconforming setback the setback shall be the computed average of (a) the normal setback requirement with (b) the nonconforming setback; or
(2)
Where both adjoining lots contain a principal building, each with a nonconforming setback, the minimum setback shall be the computed average of the two nonconforming setbacks.
3-23 - Structures permitted above the height limit.
The height limits of these regulations shall not apply to a church spire, belfry, cupola, dome or ornamental tower not intended for human occupancy, monument, water tower, observation tower, transmission tower, chimney, smokestack, conveyor, flagpole, radio, cell or television tower, mast or aerial, parapet wall not extending more than four feet above the roofline of the building, and necessary mechanical appurtenances. (See section 3-26.)
3-24 - Permitted encroachments of yards and setbacks.
Architectural features, such as cornices, eaves, steps, gutters, signs and fire escapes, may project not more than three feet beyond any required setback line, except where such projections would obstruct driveways which are or may be used for access for service and/or emergency vehicles; provided, however, that in the case of automobile service stations, motels and similar uses which serve the motoring public, canopies shall be allowed over a driveway or walkway within the front yard, not to extend from the principal building to a point any closer than 15 feet from the street right-of-way line.
3-25 - Modification of side yard requirements.
When a lot of record has a width less than the frontage required in the district in which it is located, then the land development administrator shall be authorized to reduce the side yard requirements for such lot; provided, however, that there shall not be less than an eight foot side yard.
3-26 - Variances to height requirements.
Chimneys, water, fire, radio, cell and television towers, church spires, domes, cupolas, stage towers and scenery lofts, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, smokestacks, flagpoles, parapet walls, silos, granaries, windmills and similar structures and their necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected above the height limits herein established after a proper variance has been obtained from the board of county commissioners. Any such approval of a greater height shall be in accord with the flight approach zone maps on file with the City of Nashville, Georgia. All such height variances shall also be closely coordinated with the Nashville/Berrien County Airport Authority, Federal Aviation Administration and local VFD serving the site.
3-27 - Prohibited uses in all residential districts.
a)
It shall be a prohibited use in all residential districts and residential lots to permanently park or store in the open, wrecked or junked vehicles, power-driven construction equipment, used lumber, metal or rubbish, or any other miscellaneous scrap or salvageable material.
b)
Tractor-trailer combinations, tractors or trailers shall not be placed or stored in residentially zoned districts.
c)
Commercial kennels [are prohibited in residential districts.]
d)
Wrecked or junked vehicles in "open" buildings [are prohibited in residential districts.]
3-28 - Recreational vehicles.
Recreational vehicles shall not be utilized as a permanent dwelling in any land development district. A permit may be issued for a recreational vehicle to be used as a temporary residence provided a well and septic tank are on site and available for hook-up to the recreational vehicle. Such permit shall expire after 30 days. Subsequent 30 day permits may be issued after inspection by the code enforcement officer with visible evidence that a permanent residence is under construction.
(Ord. No. 061306, § 2, 6-13-2006)
3-29 - Temporary care giving residence.
a)
Such unit may be located on any residential district lot, contingent upon compliance to the required minimum setback requirements and approval by the county health department for the water and septic systems.
b)
Such unit may be occupied by a care giver or recipient and his/her immediate family for one calendar year and reviewed/approved annually by the county code enforcement officer.
c)
A special care giver certification form shall be provided by the county code enforcement officer completed and submitted completed by the property owner and a licensed physician in the State of Georgia at least thirty days prior to the proposed placement of said dwelling. No unit shall be placed or occupied until the required certification form is reviewed and approved by the board of county commissioners.
d)
Said unit must be removed by no later [than] 14 days from discontinuance of care giving activities.
3-20 [3-30] - Nuisances.
No use shall be permitted or authorized to be established which, when conducted in compliance with the provisions of this ordinance, is or may become hazardous, noxious or offensive due to the emission of odor, dust, smoke, fumes, cinders, gas, noise, vibration, electrical interference, garbage materials or water-carried waste.
3-31 - Private ways (easements, access roads and private roads).
All private ways used to provide motor vehicle access shall have a right-of-way of not less than 35 feet with an unobstructed driving surface not less than 20 feet. The driving surface shall be capable of supporting the imposed loads of emergency equipment under all weather conditions. The width of the right-of-way and driving surface shall be uniform and contiguous and abut the lot. The private way shall not serve more than two lots, shall be dedicated, and shown on a plat map. The private way does not count towards the required amount of acreage dictated by the respective land development district. Private ways must be inspected by the code enforcement department to ensure that the minimum right-of-ways and driving surface requirements are met, and environmental concerns addressed if any.
(Ord. of 8-23-2003, § 5)
3-32 - Subdivision of land on private ways.
Any subdivision of land that creates additional lots that creates additional lots that will be serviced by an existing private way shall be subject to the requirements of the Berrien County Subdivision Rules and Regulations. A note shall be placed on the final plat to that effect.
(Ord. of 8-23-2003, § 6)
