Chapter 42 - HEALTH AND SANITATION[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 42-1. - Adoption of county health codes.
(a)
There are hereby adopted by reference, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing health conditions within the county, all rules and regulations of the county board of health, as amended from time to time.
(b)
One copy of each of these rules and regulations shall be maintained on file in the office of the county clerk.
Sec. 42-2. - Health officer; correction of violations.
(a)
Employees of the county board of health whose duties expressly include enforcement of the board's rules and regulations are hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter or any relevant county law, ordinance, or resolution in the name of and on behalf of the county.
(b)
The county health officer shall be empowered to cite violations of any public health and sanitation law, ordinance, rule or regulation promulgated by the state, county board of health, or the sole commissioner that is found to occur within the county. The county health officer may, upon performing an inspection and finding a violation, issue an order directing said violation be corrected within a definite amount of time. In determining the appropriate amount of time in which the violation should be corrected, the county health officer may use his discretion, except that in no case shall he consider more than 30 days permissible without notification to and approval from the sole commissioner. Any citation issued under this chapter for a violation that is not corrected within the amount of time specified by the citation shall be prosecuted and enforced in the court of appropriate jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, the magistrate court, the superior court, and the municipal court of the City of Cochran.
Secs. 42-3—42-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FOOD SERVICE

Sec. 42-23. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Food service establishment means an establishment for the preparation and serving of meals, lunches, short orders, sandwiches, frozen desserts, or other edible products. The term includes restaurants; coffee shops; cafeterias; short order cafes; luncheonettes; taverns; lunchrooms; places that retail sandwiches or salads; soda fountains; institutions, both public and private; food carts; itinerant restaurants; industrial cafeterias; catering establishments; and similar facilities by whatever name called. The term "food service establishment" shall not include food sales establishments licensed by the commissioner of agriculture, or nonprofit food sales and food service.
Nonprofit food sales and service means the temporary sale or service of food items by an organization at an event sponsored by a county, municipality, or organization.
Organization means an organization exempt from taxes under O.C.G.A. § 48-7-25(1)(a) and under section 501(d) or paragraphs (1) through (8) or paragraph (1) of section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, as that code is defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-1-2.
Sec. 42-24. - Permit required; sale or service without permit prohibited.
(a)
No person or organization shall engage in the operation of a food service establishment nor conduct nonprofit food sales and service within the county without first obtaining a permit from the county board of health.
(b)
As authorized by law, the county board of health shall act for and on behalf of the county, by regulating all food service establishments within the county, including permitting of nonprofit food sales and service by nonprofit organizations. The rules and regulations of the department of human resources regulating food sales and service are hereby adopted, and, by reference, incorporated in this section, as the minimum standards of food service regulation within the county. The county board of health is further delegated authority to adopt reasonable policies and procedures relating to permitting and inspection of food service establishments, any nonlicensed food sales operations, and nonprofit food sales and service conducted within the county.
(c)
Any person engaged in the operation of a food service establishment or nonprofit food sales and service, without holding a permit from the county board of health, shall be in violation of this article and subject to appear, upon citation, before the court of appropriate jurisdiction. Upon conviction of a violation of this article, such person shall be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-7.
(d)
In addition to the sanction imposed in this section, any violation of this article shall also constitute a nuisance within the county, contrary to the public health and safety, and subject to abatement before any court of appropriate jurisdiction. Maintenance of a nuisance shall also entitle the county to seek injunctive relief.
