Chapter 54 - MANUFACTURED HOMES AND TRAILERS[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 54-1—54-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MOBILE HOME PERMITS

Sec. 54-20. - Purpose and intent.
To ensure the maintenance of a clean water supply in the county, to assist the tax commissioner in establishing the location of mobile homes in the county, and to further ensure for taxation purposes that each mobile home in the county is registered, it has been determined that an effective way to ascertain the location and ownership of mobile homes and proper installation of their septic tank systems is to require mobile home permits as set forth in this article, and to prohibit any public utility from providing services to a mobile home unless and until the required permits are issued.
(Ord. of 7-18-1996, intro. ¶)
Sec. 54-21. - Permit required for mobile home setup or removal.
(a)
Setup. No mobile home shall be located and set up for occupancy or relocated and set up for occupancy in the county without first obtaining and displaying:
(1)
A mobile home site permit, to be obtained from the office of the county tax commissioner;
(2)
A mobile home relocation permit, to be obtained from the office of the county building inspector; and
(3)
An on-site sewage management permit, to be obtained from the county health department as provided in chapter 70, pertaining to water and sewage services.
(b)
Removal. No mobile home shall be removed from the county without first obtaining a relocation permit from the office of the county building inspector.
(Res. of 7-18-1996, § 1.1)
Sec. 54-22. - Mobile home setup standards.
Installation of mobile homes in the county shall be in strict compliance with the provisions of the Uniform Standards Code for Manufactured Homes Act, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-130 et seq.
Sec. 54-23. - Application.
The owner of the mobile home or his agent shall make applications to the offices of the tax commissioner, the building inspector, and the health department on the forms prescribed by those departments; provided, however, that the application shall contain, at a minimum:
(1)
The name of the owner;
(2)
The location, by address and/or tax map parcel number identification, of where the mobile home is to be set up for occupancy;
(3)
The previous location of a mobile home (address, map and parcel number, if in the county; county and state, if outside of the county; and name of seller if this is first occupancy of owner);
(4)
The name of the owner of the real estate on which the mobile home is to be situated;
(5)
The mailing address of the owner;
(6)
The name and address of the applicant, if different from the owner.
(Res. of 7-18-1996, § 1.2)
Sec. 54-24. - Permit fees.
Permit fees for each permit required pursuant to this article shall be in the amount established from time to time by the sole commissioner.
(Res. of 7-18-1996, § 1.3)
Sec. 54-25. - Display of permits.
No mobile home shall be moved into or within, or removed from, Bleckley County unless the permits required by this article are obtained and affixed to the middle area of the left rear of the mobile home so that the permits are clearly visible at all times, including while the mobile home is being transported.
(Res. of 7-18-1996, § 1.5)
Sec. 54-26. - Utility services restricted.
(a)
No public utility shall provide service to any mobile home that is located or relocated in the county without first determining that the permits required by this article are affixed to the mobile home as required by the provisions of this article.
(b)
No public utility shall disconnect service from any mobile home being removed from the county without first determining that the relocation permit for removal as required by this article has been obtained and properly affixed to the mobile home.
(Res. of 7-18-1996, § 1.6)
Sec. 54-27. - Enforcement.
(a)
The chief tax appraiser, building inspector, tax commissioner, health inspector, sheriff, and deputy sheriffs of the county, and their designated agents, and all other law enforcement officers, are authorized to issue citations to violators of any provision of this article.
(b)
The citation shall state the time and place at which the accused is to appear for trial, shall identify the offense with which the accused is charged, shall have an identifying number by which it shall be filed with the court, shall indicate the identify of the accused and the date of service, and shall be signed by the officer who completes and services it.
(Res. of 7-18-1996, § 1.7)
Sec. 54-28. - Penalty.
(a)
Any person violating this article shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalties as set forth in section 1-7.
(b)
No person accused of violating this article shall be arrested prior to trial, but any defendant who fails to appear for trial shall be arrested thereafter on the warrant of the court and required to post a bond for his future appearance.
(Res. of 7-18-1996, § 1.8)
Sec. 54-29. - Court proceedings.
(a)
Violation of this article shall be tried upon citation as described herein and may be tried with or without a prosecuting attorney as well as upon accusations. The county attorney or other attorney designated by the sole commissioner may serve as prosecuting attorney.
(b)
Each violation of this article shall constitute a separate offense.
(Res. of 7-18-1996, § 1.9)
