Chapter 50 - LAW ENFORCEMENT
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 50-1—50-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - JAIL

Sec. 50-19. - Prisoner meals; cost; payment; accounting.
The county shall pay to the county sheriff the actual costs for the feeding of prisoners confined by the county in the county jail. The sheriff's department will maintain adequate records concerning the number of meals served and the costs thereof during each month and submit a statement at the end of each month to the county. The sheriff's department will deposit the sums paid by the county for prisoner meals to the agency account of the sheriff's department. Funds paid and the records maintained on food for prisoners shall be subject to the annual audit of the county.
(Res. of 11-17-1983)
Sec. 50-20. - County jail fund.
(a)
In every case in which any court in the county shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of the state or any offense against a county ordinance, there shall be imposed as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten percent of the original fine.
(b)
At the time of posting bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of the state or a violation of a county ordinance, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted. In every case in which any court in the county shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, the additional sum equal to ten percent of the original bail or bond shall be collected.
(c)
The additional penalties set forth shall be in addition to that amount required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be paid into the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund, by O.C.G.A. § 47-11-51 to be paid into the Judges of the Probate Courts Retirement Fund of Georgia, or by any other provision of law.
(d)
The additional penalties as prescribed in this section shall be assessed and collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the duty of collecting monies arising from fines and forfeited bonds. Such additional penalties shall be paid over to the sole commissioner by the tenth day of the month following the month in which these sums are collected.
(e)
All such sums collected and paid over to the sole commissioner shall be deposited into a special account that shall be known as the county jail fund.
(f)
All moneys collected pursuant to this section and placed in the county jail fund shall be expended solely and exclusively for constructing, operating, and staffing the Bleckley County correctional facilities, or for such other purposes as specified in O.C.G.A. § 15-21-95.
(g)
The additional penalties provided for by this section shall not be imposed or collected in any court operated by any municipality located in the county, unless the municipality and the county enter into an intergovernmental contract providing for use of the county jail, correctional institution, or detention facility by municipal prisoners.
(Res. of 6-21-1990)
