ARTICLE VI. - PLANTING, REMOVAL AND MANAGEMENT OF TREES

Sec. 20-500. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrator means the acting city arborist or other employee of the city who is responsible for the administration of the provisions of this article.
Critical root zone means the area of tree roots around the tree measured to be no less than 1½ feet in radius for every inch of trunk diameter measured four feet above the ground.
Street trees means trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or rights-of-way within the city or lying within all rights-of-way of all streets, avenues, or ways within the city.
Topping means the severe cutting back of tree limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
Park and public trees and landscape means trees, shrubs, bushes and all other vegetation in public parks and on public property at public facilities, and all area owned by the city, or to which the public has free access.
(Ord. No. BR2019-03, § 1, 2-12-2019)
Sec. 20-501. - Public tree protection and care.
(a)
Except as hereinafter provided, no person, except a public utility, shall:
(1)
Cut, prune, injure or remove any living tree on or in a public highway, right-of-way, neutral ground, public park, public place, triangle, sidewalk, or other public property;
(2)
Cut or disturb or interfere in any way with the roots of any tree on public property;
(3)
Spray with any chemical insecticide or herbicide or other oils or whitewash any tree on public property;
(4)
Place any wire, rope, sign, poster, barricade, or other fixture on a tree or tree guard on public property; or
(5)
Injure, misuse or remove any device placed to protect any such tree.
(b)
No person shall pile building material or other material about any tree, plant or shrub in a street in any manner that will in any way injure such tree, plant or shrub.
(c)
No person shall pave or place gravel, soil or other such material within 12 feet of any tree on public property, unless approved by the city administrator.
(d)
No person shall dump, pour or spill any oil, herbicide, insecticide or other deleterious matter upon any tree or tree space in any street or within the critical root zone of any tree, or keep or maintain upon any street, any receptacle from which oil or herbicide, pesticide or other deleterious matter leaks or drips, or said material onto any parking or concrete gutter so as to injure any tree on any public property.
(e)
No person shall use the rights-of-way, parks, sidewalks, or public places to dump grass clippings, tree trimmings, rocks or refuse of any nature.
(f)
No person shall decorate a public tree or place advertising matter, posters or political placards on trees or in public properties.
(Ord. No. BR2019-03, § 2, 2-12-2019)
Sec. 20-502. - Notification and penalties.
(a)
Any person who shall injure, damage or destroy any public tree situated upon the public right-of-way of any street, alley, sidewalk, park or other public property within the city shall promptly notify the city administrator of such fact and shall, within such reasonable time as specified by the city administrator, repair or replace the same to the satisfaction of the city administrator.
(b)
Should the person fail or refuse to repair or replace the damaged or destroyed trees or plants within such reasonable time, the city administrator shall do or cause to be done the necessary repairing or replacement, and the costs of this work shall be recovered from the person responsible for the damage or destruction by a proper action of law. In any such action, "The Guide for Establishing Values of Trees and Other Plants," published by the Council of Trees and Landscape Appraisers, current edition, shall form the basis for establishing any monetary damages due for damage or destruction to the tree. In addition, the city may recover for any other damages or losses to which it is entitled by law.
(Ord. No. BR2019-03, § 3, 2-12-2019)
Sec. 20-503. - City requirements.
(a)
The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the rights-of-way of all streets, parks, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. All tree work taking place on public property being conducted by contractors, subcontractors, or city employees will conform to International Society of Arboriculture and ANSI 300 and Z-133 arboricultural standards for tree work.
(b)
Additionally:
(1)
It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or government entity/department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this provision of this article by receipt of written notification from the administrator for each instance allowing such actions.
(2)
It shall be unlawful for any entity, utility, citizen, tree care company or government to trench, cut, grade, clear, or fill within the critical root zone of any public tree without the expressed written consent of the administrator.
(Ord. No. BR2019-03, § 4, 2-12-2019)
Sec. 20-504. - Duties of the administrator.
It shall be the expressed duty of the administrator, when necessary, to issue permits, inspect tree work, require certain tree work to be performed, and enforce provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. BR2019-03, § 5, 2-12-2019)
Sec. 20-505. - Private landowner responsibilities and rights.
(a)
Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not substantially obstruct the view of any street intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of 13 feet above street surface or eight feet above the sidewalk surface. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs that constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with visibility of any traffic control device or sign or line of sight.
(b)
Nothing in this article is intended to prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent property owners providing that the selection and location and planting of said trees is in accordance with specifications of this article and with prior approval of the administrator.
(Ord. No. BR2019-03, § 6, 2-12-2019)
Sec. 20-506. - Creation and establishment of a city tree board.
There is hereby created and established a city tree board which shall consist of five members, who are residents of the county, who shall be appointed by the mayor and council. The term of the board members to be appointed by the mayor and council shall be two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term. Members of the board shall serve without compensation.
(1)
Tree board duties and responsibilities.
a.
It shall be the responsibility of the board to study and develop and update annually specifications for the care, conservation, pruning, planting, and replanting of publicly owned trees and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in other public areas. Such information and reports will be presented annually to the city council. The board, when requested by the city council, shall consider, investigate, make findings, and make recommendations upon any special matter or question coming within the scope of its work.
b.
The board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules of procedure, and keep minutes of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(2)
Development of arboricultural specifications. The city tree board shall develop and maintain arboricultural specifications for tree care and replacement as follows:
a.
A list of desirable trees for planting along streets in three size classes based on mature height: small (under 20 feet), medium (20 to 40 feet), and large (more than 40 feet). The tree board will also create lists of trees not suitable for planting.
b.
The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in the arboricultural specifications. No trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following: small trees, two feet; medium trees, four feet; and large trees, six feet.
c.
No street tree shall be planted within 35 feet of any street corner, except on city property measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street tree shall be planted within ten feet of any fire hydrant.
d.
No tree, other than those particularly designated for planting under overhead lines by the tree board, shall be planted under or within ten feet of a line drawn vertically below any overhead utility wire or any recorded utility right-of-way of a greater width. Trees planted within 20 feet must be of a small species listed in the arboricultural specifications developed by the tree board.
e.
The city tree board must review a utility tree trimming policy prior to any trimming by the utility company to ensure current arboricultural specifications are followed.
f.
All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the ground where necessary to provide for public safety.
(3)
Public education. It shall be the responsibility of the tree board to undertake a public Arbor Day planting activity and develop and/or secure and distribute tree care and tree benefit information as part of a city wide educational program.
(Ord. No. BR2019-03, § 7, 2-12-2019)
Sec. 20-507. - Permit and bond.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or occupation of pruning, treating, or removing street or park trees or trees within a public right-of-way within the city without first applying for and procuring a permit. No permit shall be required for electric utilities and their agents and contractors or city employee doing such work in the pursuit of their public service endeavors.
(b)
Before any permit shall be issued for any tree work on public property, each applicant shall first file evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of $300,000.00 for bodily injury and $100,000.00 for property damage indemnifying the city or any person injured or damage resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as herein described.
(Ord. No. BR2019-03, § 8, 2-12-2019)
Sec. 20-508. - Penalties for violations.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be, upon conviction or a plea of guilty, subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 plus restitution for damages to public trees and property.
(Ord. No. BR2019-03, § 9, 2-12-2019)
Sec. 20-509. - Emergency action.
It may become necessary, from time to time, for emergency crews to prune or remove trees to provide for public safety or restore phone or electrical service. Such an action may be conducted by government, emergency or utility crews without permit so as to allow immediate action to prevent damage or correct a condition which may pose a hazard to life or property. The administrator shall be notified of any such action within 24 hours of the action being initiated, by the entity taking such action, for each instance of action.
(Ord. No. BR2019-03, § 10, 2-12-2019)
Sec. 20-510. - Indemnification.
Nothing contained in this article shall be deemed to impose any liability upon the city, its officers or employees, nor to relieve the owner of any private property from the duty to keep any tree, shrub or plant upon any street tree area on his property or under his control in such condition as to prevent it from constituting a hazard or an impediment to travel or vision upon any public property or right-of-way or public place within the city.
(Ord. No. BR2019-03, § 11, 2-12-2019)
Sec. 20-511. - Appeals.
Any action of the administrator may be appealed to and heard by the city council. An appeal must be filed within ten calendar days after the decision of the administrator. The appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed with the city clerk for placement on the city council agenda. The appeal shall clearly specify the reasons for which a hearing is requested. After a hearing, the city council shall render its decision, which shall be final.
(Ord. No. BR2019-03, § 12, 2-12-2019)
Secs. 20-511—20-529. - Reserved.
