ARTICLE V. - SHORT-TERM VACATION RENTALS

Sec. 10-191. - Short title.
This article shall be titled the "City of Blue Ridge Short-Term Vacation Rental Ordinance."
(Ord. No. BR2019-07, § 1, 7-9-2019)
Sec. 10-192. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Short-term vacation rental means an accommodation for transient guests where, in exchange for compensation, a residential dwelling unit is provided for lodging for a period of time not to exceed 30 consecutive days. The term "short-term vacation rental" shall not include any residential dwelling unit not regularly offered for rental, which shall be defined as any residence offered for rental less than 14 days in any given calendar year. For the purposes of this definition, a residential dwelling shall include all housing types and shall exclude group living or other lodging uses.
(Ord. No. BR2019-07, § 2, 7-9-2019)
Sec. 10-193. - Regulations for short-term vacation rentals.
Short-term vacation rentals may be offered to the public for rental only on properties zoned for commercial use which currently are Central Business District (CBD), Limited Commercial (C-1), General Commercial (C-2). No short-term rental may be offered to the public for rental until issuance of a short-term vacation rental certificate, receipt of an occupation tax certificate, and payment of any and all applicable state and city taxes. Any taxes owed to the city shall be paid and any failure to remit the same or to register pursuant to this article shall be subject to the penalties set forth in this Code. Owners shall also use their best efforts to ensure occupants do not disrupt or interfere with rights of adjacent property owners to quiet enjoyment of their property and shall adhere to the following requirements:
(1)
Owners shall not allow occupants to violate any federal, state, or local law, statute, rule or ordinances.
(2)
Owners shall not allow overnight occupancy to exceed the maximum capacity as identified in the rental certificate application.
(Ord. No. BR2019-07, § 3, 7-9-2019)
Sec. 10-194. - Application; fee.
(a)
An application for a short-term vacation rental certificate shall be submitted, under oath, on a form specified by the city clerk or city attorney, or their designee, accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as set forth by the city council, which application shall include at a minimum the following information or documentation:
(1)
The name, address, telephone and email address of the owner of record of the dwelling unit for which a certificate is sought. If such owner is not a natural person, the application shall identify all partners, officers and/or directors of any such entity, including personal contact information;
(2)
The address of the unit to be used as a short-term vacation rental;
(3)
The name, address, telephone number and email address of the short-term vacation rental agent, which shall constitute his 24-hour contact information and who shall:
a.
Be reasonably available to handle any problems arising from use of the short-term vacation rental unit;
b.
Be available by telephone within 24 hours following notification from the city clerk, police chief or the city attorney, or his designee, of issues related to the use or occupancy of the premises;
c.
Receive and accept service of any notice of violation related to the use or occupancy of the premises; and
d.
Monitor the short-term vacation rental unit for compliance with this article;
(4)
The owner's sworn acknowledgment that he has received a copy of this section, has reviewed it and understands its requirements;
(5)
The owner shall state the maximum occupancy for the residence, which shall be the same number as advertised and marketed to potential renters by or on behalf of the owner;
(6)
The owner's agreement to use his best efforts to assure that use of the premises by short-term vacation rental occupants will not disrupt the neighborhood, and will not interfere with the rights of neighboring property owners to the quiet enjoyment of their properties;
(7)
A copy of an agreement between the owner and occupant which obligates the occupant to abide by all of the requirements of this article, and other city ordinances, state and federal law, and that such a violation of any of these rules may result in the immediate termination of the agreement and eviction from the premises, as well as potential liability for payment of fines levied;
(8)
Proof of the owner's (and/or property management company's contract with the owner) current ownership of the short-term vacation rental unit; and
(9)
Proof of visible rental sign that includes 911 address of property.
(b)
Registration under this section is not transferrable and should ownership of a short-term vacation rental change, a new application is required, including application fee. In the event of any other change in the information or facts provided in the application, the holder of the short-term rental certificate shall amend the filed application without payment of any additional application fee.
(c)
After issuance of a rental certificate, the holder shall identify on each monthly hotel/motel tax return the current identification number of the dwelling unit on any internet based advertising, listing or on-line rental platform including, but not limited to, www.vrbo.com, www.airbnb.com, www.homeaway.com or other similar services.
(Ord. No. BR2019-07, § 4, 7-9-2019)
Sec. 10-195. - Review of application.
Review of an application shall be conducted by the city clerk or the city attorney, or his designee, in accordance with due process principles and shall be granted unless the applicant fails to meet the conditions and requirements of this article, or otherwise fails to demonstrate the ability to comply with local, state, or federal laws. Any false statements or information provided in the application are grounds for revocation, suspension and/or imposition of penalties, including denial of future applications. A certificate shall not be issued unless the owner demonstrates compliance with the applicable codes.
(Ord. No. BR2019-07, § 5, 7-9-2019)
Sec. 10-196. - Violations; revocation.
(a)
In any instance in which use of the short-term rental by a guest results in a violation of this article, or any other ordinance of the city, notice of such violation shall be provided to the short-term vacation rental agent. Failure to remedy any notice of violations may result in the issuance of a citation, which shall be prosecuted pursuant to this Code. Upon a conviction of violation, the city clerk or the city attorney may revoke the short-term vacation rental certificate and may reject all applications for the subject premises for a period of 12 consecutive months.
(b)
Short-term rentals occurring on or after July 15, 2019, without a valid rental certificate shall constitute a violation of this article and shall be subject to a minimum fine of $250.00. Each occurrence shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
Nothing in this article shall be construed to limit any action by the city to seek the remediation of any dangerous condition at the short-term vacation rental or to take any action seeking to protect and preserve against any threat to public safety.
(Ord. No. BR2019-07, § 6, 7-9-2019)
Sec. 10-197. - Appeal rights.
A person aggrieved by the city clerk's or city attorney's decision to revoke, suspend or deny a short-term vacation rental certificate may appeal the decision to the city council. The appeal must be filed with the city clerk's office in writing, within 30 calendar days after the adverse action and it shall contain a concise statement of the reasons for the appeal. A decision from the city council rendered at its next regularly scheduled meeting and the council may hold any hearing deemed necessary in consideration of the appeal or may simply vote to reverse or confirm the appealed decision.
(Ord. No. BR2019-07, § 7, 7-9-2019)
Sec. 10-198. - Effective date; tolling; special land use permit; nonconforming grandfathered use.
modified
(a)
The effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived shall be immediately upon its passage by the city council and execution by the mayor or upon 15 days expiring from the date of its passage without a veto of said ordinance by the mayor as set forth in the city Charter at section 3.23(b).
(b)
A holder of any existing special land use permit permitting short term rentals on property that is not within a category eligible for the issuance of a short term rental certificate may be subject to suspension or revocation via a show-cause hearing conducted by the city council if the owner/property owner/operator is found in violation of any local, state or federal laws, regulations or ordinance regulating such business or the violation any of the city council's stipulations of the special land use permit. The city shall be authorized to conduct a show-cause hearing if the violations are not corrected within ten days of official notification provided by the city, and/or are habitual in nature, and/or endanger the public health, safety and welfare.
(c)
In the event an owner or the owner's agent is currently operating a short-term rental upon property which is not within a category eligible for the issuance of a short-term rental certificate and has been paying the monthly hotel/motel tax as required by law, said operation shall be considered to be grandfathered and allowed to continue operation until there is a change in ownership of said property. However, all other terms and conditions of this article shall apply to any grandfathered short-term rental located on property zoned a category other than a commercial category set forth in this article.
(Ord. No. BR2019-07, § 10, 7-9-2019; Ord. No. BR2022-05 , § 1, 3-15-2022)
Secs. 10-199—10-221. - Reserved.
