SECTION 11. - APPEALS

11-4 - Appeals.
11-4.1
Who May Appeal: Appeals to the Brantley County Commissioners may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the governing authority affected by any decision of the Land Use Administrator (County Manager). Such appeals shall be filed no later than thirty (30) days after the date of notification of the decision appealed from by filing with the Land Use Administrator (County Manager), and with the Commission, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Land Use Administrator (County Manager) shall forthwith transmit to the Commission all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
11-4.3
Presentation of Evidence: The appellant, and any public agency or private individual shall be entitled to present evidence on matters before the Commission. Commission may request data or factual evidence from the Planning Commission in reaching decisions.
11-4.4
Appeals Decisions. The Commissioners may, in conformity with the provisions of these regulations, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination of the Land Use Administrator (County Manager), and to that end shall have all the powers of the Land Use Administrator (County Manager). The Commissioners may direct the issuance of a permit. It shall be the duty of the Land Use Administrator (County Manager) to carry out the decisions of the Commission.
11-5 - Public Hearing.
11-5.1
Notice of Hearing Shall Be Given: Before making its decision on an administrative appeal, request for a variance, or any other matter within the Commission authority, said Commission shall hold a public hearing thereon. At least fifteen (15) days but not more than 45 days notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be sent to the appellant or petitioner, to the Planning Commission, the Land Use Administrator (County Manager), and to the owners of all properties either adjoining the property with which the hearing is concerned or situated directly across a public right-of-way from said property. Such notice shall contain the name of the appellant or petitioner, the date, time, and place set for the hearing, and a brief statement of the nature of the hearing.
11-5.2
Public Notice in Newspaper: The Board shall give a public notice of the hearing in a newspaper published and circulated in Brantley County, Georgia by advertisement published at least fifteen (15) days but not more than 45 days prior to the date of the public hearing shall be published in two (2) consecutive issues of the legal organ of the county.
11-5.3
Who May Appear: Any party may appear at the public hearing in person or by agent or by attorney.
11-5.4
Time Limit on Board's Decision: The Commission shall reach a decision following a public hearing within thirty (30) days.
11-6 - Variances and Special Exceptions.
11-6.1
Request for a Variance: The Commission may authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of these regulations as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of provisions of these regulations will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of these regulations shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Provided, however, that a variance shall not be granted for a use of land or building or structure that is prohibited by this ordinance in the district in question. Such variance may be granted in an individual case upon finding by the board that all of the following exists:
A)
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or topography, and such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved and not to any other;
B)
The application of these regulations to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship;
C)
Special circumstances are not the result of the action of the applicant, and granting the variance request will not confer upon the applicant any special privilege that is denied by this ordinance to other lands, structures, or buildings in the same district.
D)
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of these regulations; provided that no variance may be granted for a use of land, building or structure that is prohibited by this ordinance. Applications for use variances shall be accepted by the Land Use Administrator (County Manager) and shall be properly filed as requests for Land Use districts amendment, the authority for such being solely reserved for the Brantley County Commission.
E)
Provided that the Board of Commissioners may impose or require such additional restrictions and standards (i.e., increased setbacks, buffer strips, screening, etc.) as may be necessary to protect the health and safety of residents and workers in the community, and to protect the value and use of property in the general neighborhood. Provided, that whenever the Board of Commissioners shall find, in the case of any permit granted pursuant to the provisions of these regulations that any of the terms, conditions or restrictions upon which such permit was granted are not being complied with, said Board shall rescind and revoke such permit after giving due notice to all parties concerned and granting full opportunity for public hearing.
11-6.2
Application for Special Exception Approval: An application for a Special Exception approval shall include the following:
A)
The community or area in which is located the land proposed to be reclassified and the street number, if any, or if none, the location with respect to the nearby public roads in common use;
B)
A plat of the land in question, and a description by metes and bounds, bearings, and distances of the land, or if the boundaries conform to the lot boundaries within a subdivision for which a plat is recorded in the land records of the County; then the lot, block, and subdivision designations with appropriate plat reference; or the map and parcel number according to the current tax mapping system of Brantley County;
C)
The present Land Use district classification and the proposed Special Exception usage proposed for the subject property.
D)
The names and address of the owners of the land, and the names and addresses of abutting property owners.
E)
The area of the land proposed to be reclassified stated in square feet if less than one (1) acre, and in acres if one (1) or more;
F)
The application number, date of application, and action taken on all prior applications filed for the development district reclassification or Special Exception use of the whole or part of the land proposed for Special Exception use.
G)
A copy of the Written Statement of Consistency if Special Exception application is for a solid waste management facility as required and defined by the County Solid Waste Management Plan.
11-6.3
Request for Extension of Non-Conforming Residential Uses: The Commission may authorize upon appeal in specific cases an extension or replacement of an existing non-conforming residential use which the Commission is specifically authorized to pass on under the terms of this ordinance. Said extension may be granted in an individual case upon finding by the Commission that:
A)
The use is a non-conforming use as defined in these regulations; and
B)
The use is in full compliance with all requirements of these regulations applicable to non-conforming uses; and
C)
The extension of said use will not further injure a permitted use on adjacent property in the same district.
D)
This section is specifically designed to allow far the replacement of homeowner occupied residential units in areas no longer zoned for residential uses. As such, this provision is not subject to the limits of Section 8-5.
11-7 - Forms.
Appeals from actions of the Land Use Administrator (County Manager), requests for variances, and requests for extension of non-conforming residential uses shall be made on forms provided for such purposes. The applicant shall provide all information required on said forms. Forms shall be filed with the Land Use Administrator (County Manager), and the applicant shall pay Brantley County for expenses incidental to the appeal. The Land Use Administrator (County Manager) shall accept no form unless it contains all pertinent information and is accompanied by the required fee to defray expenses as set from time to time by the County Commission.
(Ord. of 9-8-2016; Ord. of 6-15-2017, Exh. A)
