SECTION 4. - LAND USE DISTRICTS

4-1 - Establishment of Districts.
In order that the purposes of this ordinance as defined in Section 1 may be accomplished, there are hereby established within Brantley County, Georgia, Land Use districts identified as follows:
4-1.1
A-G Agricultural Use: The purpose of this district is to permit agricultural uses, to encourage the maintenance of the rural countryside, to preserve forests and other undeveloped lands away from areas of population growth, and to allow residents to retain their traditional ways of life. The preferred land use in the district is agricultural, either active in the form of crops, or passive in the form of forest management or pasturelands. The A-G district should be utilized as a land use designation where a more intensive use of the land is unlikely to occur in the near future. The requirements of the district are designed to encourage the maintenance of Brantley County's rural character until more intensive development is mandated by growth demands.
4-1.2
R-R Rural Residential: The purpose of this district shall be to allow for residential development with minimum lot size of one acre in appropriate areas designated in the Comprehensive Plan in unincorporated Brantley County. With Health Department approval, such districts may use individual water supply and sewerage disposal systems. All small lot development will be encouraged to locate in the counties identified Residential and Developing Subdivisions Character Areas as identified in the 2016 Greater Brantley County Comprehensive Plan.
4-1.3
R-1 Single-Family Residential: The purpose of this district is to provide single family residential areas with minimum lot sizes of one acre, said areas being protected from the depreciating effects of small lot development and excessive density and from the encroachment of these uses which are incompatible to a desirable residential environment. To be considered for this district all residential dwellings must be site built. With Health Department approval, such districts may use individual water supply and sewerage disposal systems.
4-1.4
R-22 Single Family Residential: The purpose of this district is to provide for single-family residential areas with minimum lot size of 1/2 acre, said areas being protected from the effects of higher density development and the encroachment of those uses, which are incompatible to a low density residential development. To be considered for this district all residential dwellings must be site built. Developments in this district must be served by either public water or public sewer or a community water or community sewage disposal system.
4-1.5
DR-22-M Residential: The purpose of this district is to create an area that, in addition to conventional one and two-family dwellings, as a matter of right in a conventional subdivision. Lots in this district must have a minimum lot size of IA. acre for single-family homes and 30,000 square feet for duplex uses with both a public water and public sewer system.
4-1.6
M-R Multiple Residential. The purpose of this district is to provide for the orderly development of higher density residential areas with a maximum density of 12 units per acre. Any developments in this district shall be served by either a public water and sewer system or a community water and sewer system. To be considered for this Land Use district, property must directly about a major thoroughfare roadway as designated on the Official Road Classification Map of Brantley County and must have a gross minimum lot size of (3) acres.
4-1.7
M-11-P Manufactured Housing Park: The purpose of this district is to provide for the development of property that is appropriately located and planned for manufactured housing park use. Property developed in this district is to remain in single ownership, individual corporation or limited liability company or limited partnership for rental or leasing purposes only. To be considered for this Land Use classification, a site plan meeting the requirements of this ordinance must be submitted with any Land Use petition. Manufactured housing parks shall be developed only in strict accordance with the Manufacturing Housing Park provisions of this ordinance. In order to be considered for this Land Use classification, any property must directly abut a paved collector thoroughfare roadway as designated on the Official Road Classification Map of Brantley County and must have a gross minimum lot size of three (3) acres.
4-1.8
B-R Business Retail. The purpose of this district is to provide for and protect areas that can accommodate a variety of sales and services that are commonly needed by the rural community and which will not create undesirable traffic congestion. In order to be considered for this Land Use classification, any property must directly abut a collector or thoroughfare roadway as designated on the Official Road Classification Map of Brantley County,
4-1.9
C-H Highway Commercial: The purpose of this district is to provide for and encourage the proper grouping and development of high traffic oriented uses which include a wide variety of sales and services that will best accommodate the needs of the county and the traveling public in order to reduce highway congestion, traffic hazards or blight. To be considered for this district, property must be located on a major thoroughfare roadway as designated on the Official Road Classification Map of Brantley County.
4-1.10
L-1 Light Industrial: The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect areas for those wholesale and light industrial uses, which do not create excessive noise, odor, smoke, dust, and which do not possess other objectionable characteristics, which might be detrimental to surrounding neighborhoods, or to the other uses permitted in the district. Development must be 500 feet from all Residential Districts, and 200 feet from all Agricultural Districts.
4-1.11
H-I Heavy Industrial: The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect areas for those industrial uses, which cannot comply with the regulations of the L-I District. Development must be 500 feet from all Residential Districts, and 200 feet from all Agricultural Districts.
4-1.12
C-A Adult Commercial: The purpose of this district shall be to provide a reasonable location within the community for the development of adult-oriented businesses including adult entertainment establishments.
4-2 - Land Use Districts Map and Major Thoroughfare Plan.
The boundaries of each district are shown on maps entitled "Official Land Use Districts Map of Brantley County, Georgia". The classification of streets (local and collector streets and arterials) within Brantley County, Georgia is shown on a map entitled "Major Thoroughfare Plan, Brantley County, Georgia". The Official Land Use Districts map and Major Thoroughfare Plan shall be dated and certified by the Chairman of the County Commission and County Clerk, and said maps and all explanatory matter thereon accompanies and is hereby made a part of this ordinance.
Accurate copies of the "Official Land Use Districts Map of Brantley County, Georgia", and the "Major Thoroughfare Plan, Brantley County, Georgia", shall be on file in the office of the Land Use Administrator (County Manager) at all times. Said maps shall accurately show all map amendments made in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance. It shall be the duty of the Land Use Administrator (County Manager) to ensure that the "Official Land Use Maps of Brantley County, Georgia" and the "Major Thoroughfare Plan, Brantley County, Georgia", displayed in this office are kept up-to-date and accurately show all amendments.
4-3 - Interpretation of Land Use District Boundaries:
When uncertainty exists with respect to the location of boundaries of any Land Use district as shown on the "Official Land Use Districts Map of Brantley County", the following rules shall apply:
4-3.1
Unless otherwise specifically indicated, where district boundaries are indicated on the Land Use map as approximately following the centerline of a street right-of-way, highway, railroad right-of-way line, stream bed, or river bed, such centerlines shall be interpreted to be such district boundaries.
4-3.2
Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall be interpreted as following such lot lines.
4-3.3
Where district boundaries are indicated on the Land Use map, as approximately following the corporate limit lines, then such corporate limit lines shall be interpreted to be such district boundaries.
4-3.4
Where district boundaries are indicated on the Land Use map as being set back from the centerline of a street right-of-way, road, highway, railroad, stream, or river, and parallel thereto, then such district boundaries, unless otherwise specifically indicated, shall be interpreted as being at the scaled distance from the centerline of such street, road, highway, railroad, stream, or river as being parallel thereto.
4-4 - Planned Development District (PD).
Planned Development Districts are intended to provide an alternative method of land development and redevelopment not available within the framework of standard Land Use districts. The standards and procedures of approving these districts are intended to promote flexibility of design and allow for planned diversification and integration of uses and structures while at the same time retaining in the Commissioners the absolute authority to establish such conditions, limitations, and regulations as it deems necessary to maintain community aesthetics and to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare. In doing so, the Planned Development Districts are designed to achieve the following objectives:
A)
Accomplish a more desirable development than would be possible through strict adherence of standard Land Use and subdivision regulations.
B)
Accommodate a mixture of uses and/or development patterns which are compatible both internally and externally through limitations on sign control, building orientations, buffering or other techniques which may be appropriate to a particular development proposal.
C)
Encourage flexible and creative concepts of site development planning which meet the changing needs, technologies, economic and consumer preferences.
D)
Preserve natural amenities of the land by encouraging scenic and functional open areas.
E)
Encourage an efficient use of land, where appropriate and beneficial to the County, resulting in smaller network of streets and utilities thereby lowering development and housing costs.
F)
Maintain consistency with the Goals, Policies, and Future Land Use elements of the Comprehensive Plan.
4-4.1
Relation to other Regulations. The Planned Development District shall be a Land Use district, and is permissible when approved according to a concept plan that ensures the above objectives can be met. Once development has commenced under a PD approval, development must continue under the terms and conditions of the approval until it is completed or until the PD approval has been properly amended.
Planned Developments shall meet the intent of all applicable development regulations of the County. These shall include but not be limited to the Land Use Ordinance, Subdivision Regulations and adopted Building and Fire Codes. Where these are in conflict, the approved PD plans, terms and conditions shall take precedence. All proposed deviations from the County's development standards shall be itemized and depicted in the PD proposal. County construction standards regarding streets, parking and utilities shall be met in all PD proposals without deviation.
Planned Developments shall not be used as merely a means to avoid full compliance with standard development regulations for purpose of private gain.
4-4.2
Eligibility Requirements. Minimum acreages for Planned Development proposals shall be as follows:
EXPAND
A) All residential developments: Five (5) acres
B) Non-residential or mixed-use development: Ten (10) acres
  4-4.3
Planned Development Review Process and Fees. Planned Developments shall be reviewed and advertised in the same manner as any proposed Land Use Map amendment as described in Section 13 of the Land Use Ordinance. Pre-application meeting(s) with appropriate County staff shall be required to discuss the proposal before the application is submitted. Base application fees shall be ($300.00).
4-4.4
Development Plan Submittal Requirements. Proposed development plans shall include but not be limited to the following. Additional submittal requirements may be determined by County staff at the pre-application meeting or during the review process.
A)
Completed application forms.
B)
Letter of intent.
C)
Master concept plan if developed in phases. If deemed necessary, each phase shall be reviewed and approved separately.
D)
Drawn site plans with the appropriate numbers of copies provided for necessary staff review and public hearings. These plans shall include but not be limited to the following:
1)
Location Map.
2)
Title, scale and North arrow.
3)
Existing and proposed site improvements.
4)
Detention/Retention areas.
5)
Landscape plan showing any vegetative buffers and open space. A minimum 14% of the gross property acreage shall be reserved as open space and/or outdoor recreation area.
6)
Boundary survey and/or legal description in metes and bounds.
7)
Proposed list of deviations from the County's development standards.
8)
Written approval from the County Engineer stating that the proposal is in compliance with the County's street, parking and utilities regulations.
Development approval shall be tied to all approved site plans made part of the public hearing.
4.5 - Planned Development Amendments.
Substantial amendments to an approved Planned Development District shall be reviewed and processed in the same manner as if it were a completely new development proposal.
The term substantial shall include but not be limited to any of the following:
A)
Greater than 10% increase in number of dwelling units, or total impervious surface area.
B)
Reduction by greater than 10% of landscaped or open space areas, or building setbacks.
C)
Any change in the boundaries of the Planned Development District.
Non-substantial amendments to an approved Planned Development District shall be reviewed and approved jointly by the Land Use Administrator (County Manager) and the Building Inspector. At their discretion, such amendments may be presented to the Commissioners for their consideration.
4.6 - Enforcement and Penalties.
The terms and conditions of approval for Planned Development Districts shall be enforceable in the same manner as any other provision of this Land Use Ordinance. Violations shall be punishable as provided in this Ordinance for each separate offense.
(Ord. of 9-8-2016; Ord. of 6-15-2017, Exh. A)
