ARTICLE II. - OCCUPATION TAXES AND REGULATORY FEES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Business and occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-1 et seq.

Sec. 26-31. - Occupation tax required for business dealings.
Each person engaged in any business, trade, profession, or occupation in the county, whether with a location in the unincorporated area of the county, or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for such business, trade, profession, or occupation; which business tax registration certificate shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the county. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the county, such business tax certificate shall be shown to the clerk of the board of commissioners, or such official's designee or to any law enforcement officer of the county upon request.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 2)
Sec. 26-32. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The business and occupation tax levied in this article is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade or calling. The tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5—48-13-26. Any other applicable business licenses pursuant to pertinent general state law and/or local ordinance are not repealed, included or affected in any manner by this article.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 3)
Sec. 26-33. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of an occupation tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Business tax and occupation tax mean a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations, or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession, or business for revenue raising purposes.
Jurisdiction means the unincorporated area of the county.
Location or office shall not include a temporary work site which serves a single customer or project.
Person includes sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, nonprofits, or any other form of business organization, but specifically excludes charitable nonprofit organizations which utilize 50 percent of their proceeds for charitable purposes.
Practitioner of profession and practitioner of occupation mean one who by state law requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation. The term "practitioners of professions and occupations" shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 4)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 26-34. - Occupation tax levied; restrictions.
(a)
Levied. An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the unincorporated area of the county and/or upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7 based upon the following criteria:
The number of employees of the business or practitioner who work within the county.
(b)
Occupation tax schedule; number of employees. The tax rate determined by number of employees for each business, trade, profession, or occupation is as follows and may be developed and updated from time to time by the board of commissioners:
EXPAND
Employees Tax Liability
1—100 $25.00
101—150  35.00
151 and above  50.00
  (c)
Exceptions; exemptions.
(1)
No business or practitioner shall be required to pay more than one occupation tax for each of its locations.
(2)
No occupation tax shall be required from those real estate brokers, real estate agents, or real estate companies whose offices are located outside the jurisdiction and who sell property inside the jurisdiction.
(d)
Amount paid. Where a business subject to the tax levied by this article begins operation in the first half of the calendar year, then the full tax shall be paid; if the business begins operation after July 1, then one-half of the tax shall be paid.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 5)
Sec. 26-35. - Paying occupation tax of business out of state.
Registration and assessment of an occupation tax is hereby imposed on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the state if the business's largest dollar volume of business in the state is in the county and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the jurisdiction of the county for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the jurisdiction of the county.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 6)
Sec. 26-36. - Business registration.
The business registration of each business operated in the county's jurisdiction shall identify the line of business that the business conducts. No business shall conduct any line of business without first having that line of business registered with the county and that line of business being noted by the county government upon the business registration form which is to be displayed by the business owner.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 7)
Sec. 26-37. - Business at more than one location.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 8)
Sec. 26-38. - Occupation tax classified in O.C.G.A.
(a)
Practitioners as described in O.C.G.A. Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18) shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
The occupation tax based on the number of employees as set forth in section 22-32.
(2)
A fee of $25.00 per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service, such tax to be paid at the practitioner's office or location. This election is to be made on an annual basis and must be done by January 31 of each year.
(b)
Practitioners exclusively practicing for a government. Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, instrumentalities of the United States, the state, or a municipality or county of the state shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 9)
Sec. 26-39. - When tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such occupation tax shall be for the calendar year unless otherwise specifically provided. The registration and occupation tax shall be payable January 1 of each year and shall, if not paid by March 31 of each year, be subject to penalties for delinquency as prescribed in this article. On any new profession, trade, or calling begun in the county in 1996, or succeeding years thereafter, the registration and tax shall be due immediately upon beginning business. A ten-percent penalty shall be imposed if the tax levied in this article has not been paid within 90 days of its due date. The tax registration provided for in this article shall be issued by the clerk of the board of commissioners and if any person whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after such registration or occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the county, any of the kind of profession, trade, or calling subject to this article without having first obtained such registration, such offender shall, upon conviction, be punished by fine and/or imprisonment as provided in section 26-52.
(b)
In addition to the remedies in subsection (a) of this section, the tax may be collected in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions. The clerk of the board of commissioners is authorized to issue executions against the delinquent taxpayer as provided O.C.G.A. § 48-13-26(a).
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 10)
Sec. 26-40. - Businesses operated for charitable purposes.
No business on which an occupation tax is levied by this article shall be exempt from the registration or tax on the grounds that such business is operated for a charitable purpose, unless 50 percent or more of the entire proceeds from the business are devoted to such purpose.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 11)
Sec. 26-41. - Liability of officers and agents; registration required; failure to obtain:
All persons subject to the occupation tax levy pursuant to this article shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for the business as described in this article, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such business, the persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a registration. Every person commencing business in the county after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration provided for in this article before commencing such business; and any person transacting, or offering to transact in the county, any of the kinds of businesses, trades, professions, or occupation without first having so obtained such registration shall be subject to penalties provided in section 26-52.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 12)
Sec. 26-42. - Businesses not covered by this article.
The following businesses are not covered by this article but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state service commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. tit. 46, ch. 3.
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355 (Businesses that purchase carload lots of guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed, or cottonseed meal and hulls.)
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 13)
Sec. 26-43. - License duration.
Each license issued under this article shall be valid for the calendar year in which issued.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 14)
Sec. 26-44. - Transfers prohibited.
No tax registration certificate issued under this article shall be transferable; and no registration certificate shall be exchanged for a registration certificate for a different type of business.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 15)
Sec. 26-45. - Application.
(a)
Every person subject to the tax levied under this article shall, on or before January 31st of each year, or prior to engaging in said business, file with the Clerk of the Brantley County Commission or her designed representative, an application for a county business and occupation tax registration certificate.
(b)
Every person subject to the tax shall make application for said registration certificate on forms provided by the county, setting forth, at a minimum, the following information:
(1)
Name of business/occupation;
(2)
Location of the business/occupation office;
(3)
Exact nature of business/occupation for which a registration certificate is requested; and
(4)
A copy of a picture identification document issued by a state or federal agency, such as a driver's license, identifying the applicant thereon.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 16; Ord. of 12-14-2004, § 1)
Sec. 26-46. - Veterans.
Persons who can qualify for a state veterans free license under O.C.G.A. § 43-12-1 must secure such license from the state and present such license to the county clerk, who will honor such license and issue a county business and occupation tax registration certificate without requiring payment of the tax and mark the registration certificate "Exempt from tax."
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 17)
Sec. 26-47. - Displaying registration certificate.
All persons having paid the tax required by this article shall exhibit the business and occupation tax registration certificate, or receipt therefor, issued them by the county clerk in a conspicuous place in the office or quarters of such establishment or place of business.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 18)
Sec. 26-48. - Location of business.
(a)
Registration certificate location. Registration certificates granted under this article shall not authorize the holder of such certificate to exercise or carry on the trade, business, or profession named therein at any other place than that mentioned in the registration certificate.
(b)
Change of location. Upon removal of any taxpayer from the premises at which the trade, business, or profession identified on the registration certificate was authorized to be conducted, it may and shall be lawful for the county clerk, by endorsement upon such registration certificate, to authorize the taxpayer, removing to any other location, to carry on the trade, business or profession under such certificate.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, §§ 19, 20)
Sec. 26-49. - Refund to discontinued business.
When the tax fixed by this article has been paid during the first half of the calendar year and the person paying such tax discontinues the business during the first half of the calendar year, the county clerk may refund one-half of such year's tax, provided all other license fees and other taxes owed by the taxpayer to the county have been paid, and provided application therefor is made within 30 days after discontinuing the business.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 21)
Sec. 26-50. - Restrictions.
No person shall be issued a the county business and occupation tax registration certificate as provided for in this article, who is required to hold a license issued by the state to engage in the business profession or trade for which the person seeks to engage in, or is required to obtain health permits, or any other such regulatory permit or license, unless the person has a valid and current state license, or show evidence that all regulatory requirements have been met and attaches a copy of the application. Any revocation or suspension of a person's state license or permit will cause an immediate termination or suspension of such person's registration certificate issued by the county.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 22)
Sec. 26-51. - Enforcement.
The sheriff of the county, the deputies thereto, constables and all other law enforcement officers and the county clerk shall be authorized to issue citations to violators of this article.
Such citation shall state the time and place at which the accused is to appear for trial, shall identify the offense with which the accused is charged, shall be signed by the officer who completes and services it, and the original shall be filed with the court.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 23)
Sec. 26-52. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provisions of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 24)
Sec. 26-53. - Court proceedings.
(a)
Violations of this article shall be tried upon citation as described in section 26-51 and may be tried with or without a prosecuting attorney as well as upon accusations. The county attorney shall serve as prosecuting attorney.
(b)
Violations of this article shall be tried in the magistrate court of the county, and shall be tried in accordance with the O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.
(c)
Nothing in this article shall prevent the commissioners of the county from bringing any civil action to present, correct or abate any violation of this article. No penalty or remedy prescribed in this article shall be considered exclusive of any other remedy, but shall be available in addition to any other penalty or remedy by law.
(d)
Each violation of this article shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 25)
Sec. 26-54. - Applications of provisions to prior ordinance.
This article does not repeal or affect the force of any part of any ordinance heretofore passed where taxes or fees levied under such prior ordinance have not been paid in full. So much and such parts of ordinances heretofore and hereinafter passed as provided for the issuing and enforcing of execution for any tax or assessment required by such ordinances, or that imposed fines or penalties for the nonpayment of such tax, or for failure to pay regulatory fees provided for in such ordinance, or failure to comply with any other provisions thereof, shall continue and remain in force until such tax, fee, or assessment shall be fully paid.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 26)
Sec. 26-55. - Requirement of public hearing before tax increase.
After January 1, 1996, the board of commissioners shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the rate of occupation tax as set forth in this article.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995, § 27)
Secs. 26-56—26-90. - Reserved.
