ARTICLE VIII. - TIMBER AND PULPWOOD HARVESTING AND TRANSPORT ORDINANCE[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted November 9, 2017, §§ 1.1—7.1, did not specify manner of inclusion; hence, inclusion herein as art. VIII was at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 26-241. - Title.
This article shall be known as the "Brantley County Timber and Pulpwood Harvesting and Transport Ordinance."
(Ord. of 11-9-2017, § 1.1)
Sec. 26-242. - Purpose.
The purpose and intent of this article is to ensure that operators engaging in timber and pulpwood harvesting be responsible for any damages inflicted on the county road system or rights-of way as a result of their operations.
(Ord. of 11-9-2017, § 12)
Sec. 26-243. - Definitions.
modified
Terms used in this article are defined as follows:
Applicant means any operator who files a notification to use county roads of Brantley County in the harvesting and transport of timber, pulpwood and wood chips; also site prep contractors.
Bond means a property bond which must be in the form specified by the county governing authority.
County road means any and all roads, paved or dirt which are a part of the Brantley County road system, delineated in accordance with O.C.G.A. title 32, chapter 4, and intended or used for the passage of motor vehicles by the public.
Damage means any and all injury to the road surface or rights-of-way of a road this is part of the county road system of Brantley County, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1)
Diversion of or the filling of any drainage ditch, culvert or pipe parallel to or underneath a paved county road, so as to restrain the flow of water;
(2)
The operation of any vehicle, machinery or equipment that will gouge, rip, break, depress or otherwise deface a paved county road;
(3)
The continued ingress or egress, to and from a paved county road at a particular location, that results in a buildup of rock, gravel, mud, dirt, chemicals or other materials, which present potential hazard to other persons using the paved county road, and the transport onto a paved county road;
(4)
The creation of any dam, berm, ditch or wall that restrains the natural flow of waters and results in the redirection of said waters onto the road surface or right-of-way of any county road.
The term does not include normal wear and tear to county roads resulting from use of such roads by an operator in the course of timber or pulpwood harvesting.
Enforcement officer means the county sheriff or his deputies, the county road superintendent or his designees.
Governing authority means the county board of commissioners.
Operators means any person, entity, individual, partnership, corporation, association or other organization, including the officers, agents and employees thereof carrying out the activities described in this article.
Repair means the repair of a county road to its condition prior to the occurrence of damage caused by harvesting or timber or pulpwood.
Rights-of-way means the shoulder, front slope, ditch, drain and back slope of county road, whether owned by title or otherwise.
(Ord. of 11-9-2017, § 1.3; Amend. of 7-9-2020 , § 1.3)
Sec. 26-244. - Damage to county roads.
It shall be unlawful for any operator engaged in the harvesting or transport of timber or pulpwood to damage any paved or dirt county road or county rights-of-way in Brantley County.
(Ord. of 11-9-2017, § 2.1)
Sec. 26-245. - Notification required.
modified
After October 5, 2017, no operator shall engage in the process of harvesting timber or pulpwood, or the transport of timber or pulpwood from a harvesting site, in Brantley County without first providing notification to the governing authority for each site proposed for timber or pulpwood harvesting. Such notice may be in writing or by electronic means. In addition, the operator shall meet such other requirements specified in this article.
(Ord. of 11-9-2017, § 3.1; Amend. of 7-9-2020 , § 3.1)
Sec. 26-246. - Bond requirements.
modified
In addition to other requirements imposed under this article, no operator shall harvest or transport timber or pulpwood on or to a road in Brantley County without first providing a property bond or an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of specified as follows:
(1)
Five thousand dollars for an operator who owns or contracts for the use of a vehicle with ten or more wheels for the transport of timber or pulpwood.
(2)
Twenty thousand dollars when official county or state records show that an operator has violated this article or similar ordinance in another county, or payment against a bond has been previously sought in Brantley County or any other county.
Only one bond shall be required by an operator to satisfy the requirements of this section, regardless of the number of sites to be harvested. Said bond shall remain in effect so long as timber or pulpwood harvesting operations are being conducted in Brantley County.
(Ord. of 11-9-2017, § 4.1; Amend. of 7-9-2020 , § 4.1)
Sec. 26-247. - Notification procedure.
modified
An operator must provide written or electronic notification to the governing authority, as described in section 26-245 and include the following information:
(1)
Location and physical description of the property (including acreage) upon which timber or pulpwood is to be cut.
(2)
The approximate time of commencement and completion of harvesting operations on this site.
(3)
The name and address of the property owner.
(4)
The name and address of the person or persons who shall be in charge of, or shall act in a supervisory capacity over, the harvesting operations.
If said initial notification is oral, then written or electronic notification shall thereafter be given within 24 hours of the initial oral notification.
The governing authority shall provide a copy of each such notification to the county board of assessors. In addition, a copy shall remain on file with the county road superintendent.
(Ord. of 11-9-2017, § 5.1; Amend. of 7-9-2020 , § 5.1)
Sec. 26-248. - Operational requirements.
modified
(a)
Roads—General requirements. The use of the county roads of Brantley County by operators transporting timber or pulpwood must not endanger the traveling public. Where damage does occur, the paved or dirt county roads so damaged shall be restored to their previous condition, including, but not limited to, removal of debris and mud and replacement of gravel. Trucks or other equipment used in the harvesting operation shall not be allowed to park on the public rights-of-way. If timber is to be transported from the harvesting site onto a county road, the operator must provide the necessary materials and equipment to protect Brantley County property by means that meet forestry best management practices. The county will provide soil to the operator to improve entrances to county roads, when available. This material must be removed and the property restored to its original conditions following the completion of the harvesting activities.
(b)
Signs. To alert motorists, an operator harvesting and transporting timber or pulpwood on a county road shall post at least one sign in each direction at the site entrance. Unless otherwise designated by the county road superintendent, these signs shall be placed in locations visible to oncoming traffic, between 500 and 1,000 feet on either side of the road entrance. Each sign shall be triangular in shape, orange in color, with minimum dimensions of 18 inches by 24 inches, with four-inch lettering, and shall read "Caution Log Trucks Entering Highway." The operator must furnish these signs at his own expense.
(c)
Inspection by county road superintendent. The Brantley County Manager shall have the authority to close the county road or right-of-way, in the event it is determined necessary after the inspection by the county road superintendent.
(d)
Inspection finding no damage. If the inspection required by subsection (c) of this section results in a finding that no damage occurred, the county road superintendent shall immediately so notify the operator. The bond shall be released if operator is ceasing all harvesting operations in the county.
(e)
Inspection finding damage. If the inspection required by subsection (c) of this section results in a finding that damage has occurred, the operator having caused the damage shall immediately undertake the repairs necessary to return the county road or right-of-way to its original condition. If there is disagreement with the county road superintendent's assessment that damage has occurred, the operator may appeal the decision of the county road superintendent to the manager. An adverse decision of the county manager may subsequently be appealed by the operator to the county governing authority.
(f)
Repairs by county. In the event no appeal is filed and the responsible operator has not effectuated the repairs, the county road superintendent shall be authorized to use county labor, equipment and materials to complete the necessary repairs to the county road system. In such event, the county shall be authorized to forfeit the operator's bond in an amount necessary to reimburse the county for all expenses incurred.
(g)
Operation after damages. The operator will not be allowed to operate in Brantley County after the inspection finding damages as outlined in subsection (c) is completed, until the operator has made and completed the required repairs to the satisfaction of the county road superintendent.
(Ord. of 11-9-2017, § 6.1; Amend. of 7-9-2020 , § 6.1)
Sec. 26-249. - Enforcement.
(a)
The county sheriff or his lawful deputies, county road superintendent, or other enforcement officer duly appointed by the county governing authority shall enforce this article.
(b)
Each day that an operation continues timber or pulpwood harvesting operations without a permit constitutes a separate violation.
(c)
Any operator violating this article shall be tried before the Magistrate County of Brantley County. Upon conviction, a violation of this article shall result in punishment by a fine of not less than $50.00 or more than $1,000.00.
(d)
The commissioner of the state forestry commission shall be notified as to any violations of this article.
(Ord. of 11-9-2017, § 7.1)
