ARTICLE III. - OCCUPATION TAX[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Display of paid receipt and registration, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-23; definition of terms, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5.

Sec. 8-184. - Occupation tax required.
Each person engaged in any business, trade, profession, or occupation in the city, whether with a location in the city, or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state yet exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, and as further provided for in this article, shall register the business and shall pay an occupation tax for said business, trade, profession, or occupation as provided herein. The receipt evidencing payment of such tax and business registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the city, or if the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the city, such business registration and paid tax receipt shall be shown to the city clerk, his deputies, or to any police officer of the city upon request. This tax is levied in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 et seq.
Sec. 8-185. - Construction of terms; definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of an occupation tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Employee.
(1)
Except as otherwise provided in subsection (2) of this definition, the term "employee" means an individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds FICA, federal income tax, or state income tax from such individual's compensation or whose employer issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form I.R.S. W-2 but not a form I.R.S. 1099.
(2)
An individual who performs work under the direction and supervision of one business or practitioner in accordance with the terms of a contract or agreement with another business which recruits such individual is an employee of the business or practitioner which issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form I.R.S. W-2.
Gross receipts.
(1)
The term "gross receipts" means total revenue of the business or practitioner for the period, including without being limited to the following:
a.
Total income without deduction for the cost of goods sold or expenses incurred;
b.
Gain from trading in stocks, bonds, capital assets, or instruments of indebtedness;
c.
Proceeds from commissions on the sale of property, goods, or services;
d.
Proceeds from fees charged for services rendered; and
e.
Proceeds from rent, interest, royalty, or dividend income.
(2)
The term "gross receipts" shall not include the following:
a.
Sales, use, or excise taxes;
b.
Sales returns, allowances, and discounts;
c.
Interorganizational sales or transfers between or among the units of a parent-subsidiary controlled group of corporations, as defined by 26 USC 1563(a)(1), between or among the units of a brother-sister controlled group of corporations, as defined by 26 USC 1563(a)(2), between or among a parent corporation, wholly owned subsidiaries of such parent corporation, and any corporation in which such parent corporation or one or more of its wholly owned subsidiaries owns stock possessing at least 30 percent of the total value of shares of all classes of stock of such partially owned corporation, or between or among wholly owned partnerships or other wholly owned entities;
d.
Payments made to a subcontractor or an independent agent for services which contributed to the gross receipts in issue;
e.
Governmental and foundation grants, charitable contributions, or the interest income derived from such funds, received by a nonprofit organization which employs salaried practitioners otherwise covered by this chapter, if such funds constitute 80 percent or more of the organization's receipts; and
f.
Proceeds from sales of goods or services which are delivered to or received by customers who are outside the state at the time of delivery or receipt.
Location or office includes any structure or vehicle where a business, profession, or occupation is conducted, but shall not include a temporary or construction work site which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession or occupation which has a location or office. The renter's or lessee's location which is the site of personal property which is rented or leased from another does not constitute a location or office for the personal property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor. The site of real property which is rented or leased to another does not constitute a location or office for the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor unless the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor, in addition to showing the property to prospective lessees or tenants and performing maintenance or repair of the property, otherwise conducts the business of renting or leasing the real property at such site or otherwise conducts any other business, profession, or occupation at such site.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations, or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession, or business and enacted by a local government as a revenue-raising ordinance or resolution.
Practitioners of professions and occupations shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees, or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or as an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession, or business.
Sec. 8-186. - Regulator and administrative fees.
The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the local government. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee or registration fee. No local government is authorized to require any administrative fee, registration fee, or fee by any other name in connection with a regulatory fee, except an occupation tax, as defined in section 8-187. Regulatory fees do not include development impact fees as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2(8) or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development.
Sec. 8-187. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The occupation tax levied herein is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade, or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5 to 48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinance.
Sec. 8-188. - Occupation tax levied; restrictions.
(a)
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the corporate limits of the city and upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7 based upon the following criteria: Gross receipts of the business or practitioner in combination with the profitability ratio for the type of business, profession, or occupation as measured by nationwide averages derived from statistics, classifications, or other information published by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or successor agencies of the United States.
(b)
The tax rate determined by profitability ratios in combination with gross receipts for each business, trade, profession, or occupation shall be as follows and will be developed and updated from time to time by the city council after public hearing:
EXPAND
Profitability Ratio/Tax Class Tax Rate per $1,000.00 of Gross Receipts
Class 1: $0.10
Class 2: $0.15
Class 3: $0.20
Class 4: $0.25
Class 5: $0.30
Class 6: $0.35
  Provided, however, that in every case, the minimum occupation tax assessed for each business, trade, profession, or occupation will be $100.00.
(c)
Restrictions.
(1)
No business or practitioner shall be required to pay more than one occupation tax for each of its locations.
(2)
No occupation tax will be required upon more than 100 percent of a business's gross receipts.
(3)
No occupation tax will be required on receipts on which such tax has been levied in other localities or states.
(4)
An occupation tax shall be required from real estate brokers, agents, or companies whose offices are located outside the taxing jurisdiction and who sell property inside the taxing jurisdiction.
(5)
An occupation tax shall not be levied in any other manner except as described in this article.
(6)
Occupation taxes are limited to the gross receipts earned in the state; provided that, however, as to automobile dealers, said taxes are limited to gross receipts earned from sales of motor vehicles that are registered by the purchaser in either Carrol County or Haralson County, and the maximum occupation tax to be levied per dealership is $500.00.
(7)
Out-of-state businesses with no location in the state shall be assessed occupation taxes based on the gross receipts of the business as provided in O.C.G.A. § 14-13-7 which are reasonably attributed to sales or services in the state, on business transacted within the state.
Sec. 8-189. - Paying occupation tax of business with no location in the state.
Business registration and assessment of an occupation tax is hereby imposed on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the state if the business's largest dollar volume of business in the state is in the city and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the jurisdiction of the city for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the jurisdiction of the city.
Sec. 8-190. - Each line of business to be identified on business registration.
The business registration of each business operated in the local government's jurisdiction shall identify the line of business that the business conducts. No business shall conduct any line of business without first having that line of business registered with the city and that line of business being noted by the city upon the business registration form which is to be displayed by the business owner.
Sec. 8-191. - Number of businesses considered to be operating in the city.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
Sec. 8-192. - Professionals as classified in state statute.
(a)
Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18) shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
The occupation tax based on gross receipts combined with profitability ratios as set forth above; or
(2)
A fee of $400.00 per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service, such tax to be paid at the practitioner's office or location; provided, however, that a practitioner paying according to this subsection shall not be required to provide information to the local government relating to the gross receipts of the business or practitioner. The per-practitioner fee applies to each person in the business who qualifies as a practitioner under the state's regulatory guidelines and framework.
(b)
This election is to be made on an annual basis and must be done by December 1 of each year.
Sec. 8-193. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for a government.
Any practitioner of a profession referenced in section 8-192(a) whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, or a municipality or county of the state, instrumentalities of the United States, the state, or a municipality or county of the state shall, on an annual basis file a business registration statement with the city, however, said practitioner shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax.
Sec. 8-194. - When tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Business registration and occupation tax shall be payable to the city clerk on January 1 of each year and shall, if not paid by February 28 of each year, be subject to penalties for delinquency as prescribed in this article. On any new profession, trade, or calling the business registration and tax shall be delinquent if not obtained immediately upon beginning business and a three percent penalty imposed. The tax and business registration herein provided for shall be issued by the city clerk and if any person, firm, occupation, or corporation whose duty it is to obtain a business registration shall, after said business registration or occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the city, any of the kind of profession, trade, or calling subject to this article without having first obtained said business registration, such offender shall, upon conviction by the city judge, be punished in accordance with the law.
(b)
In addition to the above remedies, the marshal may proceed to collect in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
Sec. 8-195. - Allocation of gross receipts of business with multiple intrastate or interstate locations.
For those businesses that have multiple locations inside and outside of the city where the gross receipts can be allocated to each location, the gross receipts used to determine the occupation tax assessed will be those gross receipts attributed to each city location. Where the dollar amount of gross receipts attributed locally cannot be determined in those businesses with multiple locations, the total gross receipts will be divided by the total number of locations in the city and elsewhere and allotted to those locations. Upon request, the business or practitioner with a location or office situated in more than one jurisdiction shall provide to the city the following:
(1)
Financial information necessary to allocate the gross receipts of the business or practitioner; and
(2)
Information relating to the allocation of the business's or practitioner's gross receipts by other local governments. Where the business has locations outside of the city and taxation is levied for a criteria other than gross receipts in the other local governments, the city shall not assess more than the allotted share of gross receipts for the local operation.
Sec. 8-196. - Exemption on grounds that business is operated for charitable purpose.
No business on which a business registration or occupation tax is levied by this article shall be exempt from said business registration or occupation tax on the ground that such business is operated for a charitable purpose, unless 90 percent or more of the entire proceeds from said business are devoted to such purpose.
Sec. 8-197. - Occupation tax inapplicable where prohibited by law or provided for pursuant to other existing law.
(a)
An occupation tax shall not apply to the gross receipts of any part of a business where such levy is prohibited or exempted by the laws of the state or the United States.
(b)
Occupation taxes levied on business to be transacted during current calendar year; filing of returns showing gross receipts during preceding calendar year.
(1)
All occupation taxes levied under this article are levied on the amount of business to be transacted during the current calendar year. However, for convenience of both the city and the taxpayer, each business subject to the occupation tax levied herein shall, on or before the dates hereinafter set forth, file with the city clerk the return hereinafter specifically provided for, showing the gross receipts of that business during the preceding calendar year. This return shall be used as the basis for making estimated payments on the occupation tax for the current calendar year. The actual and final amount of tax levied for business transacted in the current calendar year shall be paid in accordance with a final return to be made after the end of the year, in accordance with the procedure set forth herein.
(2)
The owner, proprietor, manager, or secretary officer of the business subject to said occupation tax of the current calendar year shall, at the end of the preceding year, and on or before January 15 of the current calendar year, file with the city clerk, on a form furnished by said officer, a signed return setting forth the amount of gross receipts of such business for the entire preceding calendar year. This return will be used to determine the final tax for the calendar year just completed and as an estimate of the gross receipts and occupation tax for the current year.
(3)
Where a business subject to the occupation tax for the calendar year has been conducted for only a part of the preceding year, the amount of gross receipts for such part shall be reported in said return. Said return shall also show a figure putting the receipts for such part of a year on an annual basis with the part-year receipts bearing the same ratio to the whole-year gross receipts as the part year bears to the whole year. Said figure shall be used as the estimate of the gross receipts of the business for the current calendar year in establishing the business tax liability.
Sec. 8-198. - Option to report gross receipts by range.
(a)
Instead of reporting actual gross receipts as provided in section 8-197(a) above, the owner, proprietor, manager, or executive officer of the business liable for said occupation tax levied for the year may elect to file with the city clerk, on a form furnished by the city clerk, a signed return, on or before January 15, designating that business's range of gross receipts, rather than actual gross receipts. The ranges, in dollars, shall be from zero to 1,000,000; from 1,000,001 to 1,500,000; from 1,500,001 to 2,000,000; from 2,000,001 to 2,500,000; from 2,500,001 to 3,000,000; from 3,000,001 to 3,500,000; from 3,500,001 to 4,000,000; from 4,000,001 to 4,500,000; from 4,500,001 to 5,000,000; and from 5,000,001 upward, with no cap. The tax rate to be applied in each range shall be based upon the profitability class tax rate for the business established herein and shall be assessed upon the highest dollar amount in that range.
(b)
Procedure where taxes overpaid or underpaid.
(1)
If the amount of the occupation tax for the preceding year based on the return provided for in this section and on the rate of said tax provided for in this article, is less than the amount of occupation tax theretofore paid by said business based on the estimate filed pursuant to this article, the difference in said amount shall be due and payable by the taxpayer to the city on February 28 of the current year and delinquent if not paid on or before said date.
(2)
If the amount of the occupation tax for the preceding year based on the return provided for in this section and on the rate of said tax provided for in this article, exceeds the amount of occupation tax theretofore paid by said business based on the estimate filed pursuant to this article, the difference in said amount shall be refundable by the city to the taxpayer; or, if said business continues to be conducted in the city during the current year, such difference in amount may be credited by the city on the amount of occupation tax to be paid to the city by said business for the current year. This election is to be taken by the city.
Sec. 8-199. - Payment of occupation tax by newly established businesses.
In the case of a business subject to occupation tax for a calendar year, which was not conducted for any period of time in the corporate limits of the city in the preceding year, the owner, proprietor, manager, or executive officer of the business liable for occupation tax shall estimate the gross volume of revenue from commencing date to the end of the calendar year and such tax shall be paid as proved in this article.
Sec. 8-200. - More than one place or line of business.
Where a business is operated at more than one place or where the business includes more than one line, said business shall be required to pay an occupation tax in accordance with the prevailing taxing method and tax rate for the dominant line at each location.
Sec. 8-201. - Returns confidential.
Except in the case of judicial proceedings or other proceedings necessary to collect the occupation tax hereby levied, it shall be unlawful for any officer, employee, agent, or clerk of the city, or any other person to divulge or make known in any manner the amount of gross receipts or any particulars set forth or disclosed in any occupation tax return required under this article. All contents of said return shall be confidential and open only to the officials, employees, agents, or clerks of the city using said returns for the purpose of this occupation tax levy and the collection of the tax. Independent auditors or bookkeepers employed by the city shall be classed as "employees." Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the publication by the city officials of statistics, so classified as to prevent the identification of particular reports or returns and items thereof; or the inspection of the records by duly qualified employees of the tax departments of the state, the United States, and other local governments.
Sec. 8-202. - Inspections of books and records.
In any case the city, through its officers, agents, employees, or representatives, may inspect the books of the business for which the returns are made. The city shall have the right to inspect the books or records for the business of which the return was made in the city, and upon demand of the officers, agents, employees, or representatives of the city, such books or records shall be submitted for inspection by a representative of the city within 30 days. Failure of submission of such books or records within 30 days shall be grounds for revocation of the business registration currently existing to do business in the city. Adequate records shall be kept in the city, for examination by the city at the city's discretion. If, after examination of the books or records, it is determined that a deficiency occurs as a result of underreporting, a penalty of 125 percent of the prime interest rate times the amount deficient will be assessed for the period delinquent. For purposes of this section, the prime interest rate shall be that which is published by The Wall Street Journal on the first business day of the year in which the underreporting is identified.
Sec. 8-203. - Tax registration to be revoked for failure to pay tax, file returns, permit inspection of books.
Upon the failure of any business to pay said occupation tax or any part thereof before it becomes delinquent, or upon failure to make any of said returns within the time required herein, or upon failure to make a true return, or upon failure to amend a return to set forth the truth, or upon failure to permit inspection of its books as proved above, any business registration granted by the city under this article permitting the owner of said business to do business for the current year shall be, ipso facto, revoked. No new business registration shall be granted by the city for the operation of a business for which any part of the occupation tax herein provided for is at that time unpaid, or to an individual, firm, or corporation who has failed to submit adequate records as requested by the city in accordance with this article. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax.
Sec. 8-204. - Effect of failure to comply with article provisions; continuing in business after registration revocation.
Any persons, their managers, agents, or employees, who do business in the city after the business registration for said business has been revoked, shall make occupation tax returns, and who fail to make said returns within the time and in the manner herein provided, who refuse to amend such returns so as to set forth the truth, or who shall make false returns; and any persons, their managers, agents, or employees who refuse to permit an inspection of books in their charge when the officers, agents, employees, or representatives of the city request such inspection, during business hours, for the purpose of determining the accuracy of the returns herein provided for, shall be subject to late fees, interest, and liens taken as provided herein, in addition to penalties imposed in chapter 1. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax. These penalties may consist of either a percentage of the amount due or a flat line fee.
Sec. 8-205. - Lien taken for delinquent occupation tax.
In addition to the other remedies herein provided for the collection of the occupation tax herein levied, the city clerk, upon any tax or installment of said tax against the persons, partnership, or corporation liable for said tax, which said execution shall bear interest at the rate of 12 percent per annum from the date when such tax or installment becomes delinquent, and the lien shall cover the property in the city of the person, partnership, or corporation liable for said tax, all as provided by the Code, Charter of the city, and the laws of the state. The lien of said occupation tax shall become fixed on and date from the time when such tax or any installment thereof becomes delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the marshal or other appropriate officer of the city upon the property of defendant located in said jurisdiction, and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of said execution, with interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be had as is provided by the Code, charter of said city, and the laws of the state, and the defendant in said execution shall have rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality and otherwise, which are provided by the applicable laws in regard to tax executions. When a nulla bona entry has been entered by proper authority upon an execution issued by the city against any person defaulting on the occupation tax, the person against whom the entry was made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatsoever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If, at any time after the entry of nulla bona has been made, the person against whom the execution is issued pays the tax in full together with all interest and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due him as though he had never defaulted in the payment of the taxes.
Sec. 8-206. - Public hearings regarding use of additional revenue.
In any year when revenue from occupation taxes is greater than revenue from occupation taxes for the preceding year, the council shall hold one or more public hearings as a part of the process of determining how to use the additional revenue.
Secs. 8-207—8-235. - Reserved.
