ARTICLE II. - GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE GENERALLY; LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
A. - Creation.

Section 2.01. - City Council Creation; Number; Election.
The legislative authority of the government of this city, except as otherwise specifically provided in this charter, shall be vested in a city council to be composed of a mayor and four (4) councilmembers. The councilmembers shall be elected by city wide at-large elections. Each duly elected councilmember will occupy a seat on the council to be designated as Seat One, Seat Two, Seat Three and Seat Four, respectively. The city council established shall in all respects be a successor to and continuation of the governing authority under prior law. The mayor and councilmembers shall be elected in the manner provided by general law and this charter.
B. - Terms and Qualifications for Office.

Section 2.02. - City Council Terms and Qualifications for Office.
The members of the city council shall serve for terms of 4 [four] years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be eligible to serve as a councilmember unless that person shall be a citizen of the United States of America; have attained the age of 21 years; and have established his or her domicile within the city, so as to be a legal resident of the city, for the 12 consecutive months prior to the first day of the period of time set for qualification as a candidate for the office of councilmember. A duly elected councilmember shall continue to reside within the city during that individual's period of service and shall continue to be registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections of this city.
C. - Vacancies in Office.

Section 2.03. - Vacancy; Filling of Vacancies.
(a)
Vacancies. The office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant upon the occurrence of any event specified by the Constitution of the State of Georgia, Title 45 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(b)
Filling of Vacancies. A vacancy in the office of mayor or councilmember shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, by appointment of the city council if less than 12 months remains in the unexpired term, otherwise by an election, as provided for in Section 5.14 of this charter and in accordance with Titles 21 and 45 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, or other such laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
D. - Compensation and Expenses.

Section 2.04. - Compensation and Expenses.
The mayor and councilmembers shall receive compensation and expenses for their services as provided by ordinance.
E. - Prohibitions.

Section 2.05. - Conflicts of Interest; Holding Other Offices.
(a)
Elected and appointed officers of the city are trustees and servants of the residents of the city and shall act in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of such residents.
(b)
Conflict of Interest. No elected official, appointed officer, or employee of the city or any agency or political entity to which this charter applies shall knowingly:
(1)
Engage in any business or transaction, or have a financial or other personal interest, direct or indirect, which is incompatible with the proper discharge of that person's official duties or which would tend to impair the independence of the official's judgment or action in the performance of those official duties;
(2)
Engage in or accept private employment, or render services for private interests when such employment or service is incompatible with the proper discharge of that person's official duties or would tend to impair the independence of the official's judgment or action in the performance of those official duties;
(3)
Disclose confidential information, including information obtained at meetings which are closed pursuant to Title 50, chapter 14 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, concerning the property, government, or affairs of the governmental body by which the official is engaged without proper legal authorization; or use such information to advance the financial or other private interest of the official or others;
(4)
Accept any valuable gift, as defined by state law, whether in the form of service, loan, thing, or promise, from any person, firm or corporation which to the official's knowledge is interested, directly or indirectly, in any manner whatsoever, in business dealings with the governmental body by which the official is engaged; provided, however, that an elected official who is a candidate for public office may accept campaign contributions and services in connection with any such campaign;
(5)
Represent other private interests in any action or proceeding against this city or any portion of its government; or
(6)
Vote on any contract with any business or entity in which the official has a significant financial interest.
(c)
Disclosure. Any elected official, appointed officer, or employee who shall have any financial interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract or matter pending before or within any department of the city shall disclose such interest to the city council. The mayor or any councilmember who has a financial interest in any matter pending before the city council shall disclose such interest and such disclosure shall be entered on the records of the city council, and that official shall disqualify himself or herself from participating in any decision or vote relating thereto. Any elected official, appointed officer, or employee of any agency or political entity to which this charter applies who shall have any financial interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract or matter pending before or within such entity shall disclose such interest to the governing body of such agency or entity.
(d)
Use of Public Property. No elected official, appointed officer, or employee of the city or any agency or entity to which this charter applies shall use property owned by such governmental entity for personal benefit, convenience, or profit except in accordance with policies promulgated by the city council or the governing body of such agency or entity.
(e)
Contracts Voidable and Rescindable. Any violation of this section which occurs with the knowledge, express or implied, of a party to a contract or sale shall render said contract or sale voidable at the option of the city council.
(f)
Ineligibility of Elected Official. Except where authorized by law, neither the mayor nor any councilmember shall hold any other elective or compensated appointive office in the city or otherwise be employed by said government or any agency thereof during the term for which that official was elected.
(g)
Political Activities of Councilmember and Certain Officers and Employees.
(1)
No councilmember or appointive officer of the city shall continue in such position or employment upon qualifying as a candidate for nomination or election to any public office. This section shall not apply to a councilmember that qualifies as an incumbent seeking reelection to his or her seat on the council.
(2)
No employee of the city shall continue in such employment upon election to any public office in this city or any other public office which is inconsistent, incompatible or in conflict with the duties of the city employee. Such determination shall be made by the mayor and council either immediately upon election or at any time such conflict may arise.
(h)
Penalties for Violation.
(1)
Any city officer or employee shown to have knowingly concealed such financial interest or knowingly violated any of the requirements of this section shall be guilty of malfeasance in office or position and shall be deemed to have forfeited that person's office or position.
(2)
Any officer or employee of the city who shall forfeit an office or position as described in paragraph (1) above, shall be ineligible for appointment or election to or employment in a position in the city government for a period of three years thereafter.
F. - Inquiries and Investigations.

Section 2.06. - Inquiries and Investigations.
Following the adoption of an authorizing resolution, the city council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department, office or agency thereof, and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the city council shall be punished as provided by ordinance. This provision is intended to allow the council to conduct comprehensive investigations of the city's affairs as well as the conduct of any of its departments, offices or agencies so as to maintain proper legislative oversight of city government. The inquiries and investigations authorized may only be conducted by the council, not individual councilmembers, and only for the purposes of an official investigation.
G. - General Power and Authority.

Section 2.07. - General Power and Authority of the City Council.
Except as otherwise provided by law or this charter, the city council shall be vested with all the powers of government of this city.
H. - Eminent Domain.

Section 2.08. - Eminent Domain.
The city council is hereby empowered to acquire, construct, operate and maintain public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, waterworks, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, and any other public improvements inside or outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be condemned under procedures established under general law applicable now or as provided in the future.
