ARTICLE XV. - PLANNING COMMISSION

Sec. 15-1. - Creation of planning commission and duties.
The Brooklet Planning Commission, (alternatively the "planning commission") hereby established in accordance with the authority granted by the Constitution of the State of Georgia, shall consist of five voting members, one of which shall be the commission chairman, and one zoning administrator, which shall be a non-voting position. All members of the planning commission shall be appointed by the mayor and city council. Members shall serve for overlapping terms of two years. Members may be appointed to succeed themselves, and for terms of two years.
Vacancies shall be filled for unexpired terms. A vacancy in a term of office shall occur whenever the mayor and council finds that a member has resigned, or when the mayor and council shall have dismissed a member, with or without cause. Cause is defined, inter alia, to be the repeated failure to attend meetings of the board or any other action evidencing a negligence of duties.
The City Clerk shall be the secretary of the planning commission, but shall have no vote. The commission shall meet on the second Tuesday of each month. The zoning administrator shall designate the time and place of its meetings. The planning commission shall adopt its own rules of procedure and keep a record of its proceedings in accordance with state statutes and these regulations. Newly appointed members shall be installed at the first regular meeting after their appointment.
Three members of the planning commission, including the chairman shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of business. The members of the planning commission (excepting the zoning administrator) shall serve without compensation except for reimbursement for authorized expenses attendant to the performance of their duties.
(Ord. of 6-9-2005)
Sec. 15-2. - Duties and powers of the planning commission.
The City Council of Brooklet, Georgia, hereby authorizes the planning commission to have the power and exercise of duty to undertake, hear and decide the types of appeals, applications and activities outlined below, and shall have the necessary authority to ensure continuing compliance with its decisions.
Power and duties of Brooklet Planning Commission:
1.
Annually assess the city's adopted zoning ordinance and comprehensive plan with regard to changing conditions, rezoning approvals and other data as appropriate.
2.
Recommend to the city council for approval of any changes or amendments to the zoning ordinances and comprehensive plan.
3.
Hear and recommend to the city council for approval, disapproval or other actions on all requests for zoning changes and special exception permits.
4.
Review and approve/disapprove of all planned unit developments.
5.
Hear, decide or take other action on all variances from the terms of this ordinance.
6.
Hear and make determinations concerning unclassified/unlisted uses.
7.
Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the appellant that there is error in any order, requirement, permit, decision, determination or refusal made by the building inspector or other administrative official in carrying out or enforcement of this ordinance.
Sec. 15-3. - Schedule of fees.
A schedule of fees for text amendments, zoning map amendment, appeals variances applications, special exceptions, subdivision, sign, etc. shall be published at city hall and shall be established by separate ordinance. Any amendments to the schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the city clerk and may be altered or amended only by the city council. Until all applicable fees have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any application or appeal.
Sec. 15-4. - Reporting to city council.
The planning commission shall prepare and submit to city council a written report on every application brought before it outlining the request made, concern(s) raised by any resident, citizen, or government entity and the recommended course of action.
