ARTICLE XIII. - VARIANCES

Sec. 13-1. - General conditions.
A variance is a relaxation of the development standards of the zoning ordinance, not a change in a zoning district, where such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
Sec. 13-2. - Application procedure.
An application for a variance shall be submitted to the zoning administrator along with the appropriate fee. The applicant shall provide such information as the planning commission shall require. A variance application that is denied may not be resubmitted for a period of six months.
Sec. 13-3. - Public hearing.
After acceptance of any application for a variance, the zoning administrator shall transmit a copy to each member of the planning commission for their review and recommendation. Further, the zoning administrator will provide a copy of the application to each city council member and the mayor. Before taking action on a proposed variance, the planning commission shall hold a public hearing thereon. At least 15 days prior to the hearing, notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation which shall state the time, date and place of the hearing. The planning commission shall have a 60-day period subsequent to the receipt of the application by the zoning administrator within which to make its decision. If the planning commission fails to make a decision within 60 days, it shall be deemed to have approved the requested change or departure.
Sec. 13-4. - Hearing procedure.
A.
Notice to interested parties. A notice of the date, time and place of the planning commission hearing shall be sent by the zoning administrator via certified mail to the applicant and adjacent property owners. All application files shall be placed in the custody of the zoning administrator, and shall be open to the public for inspection during regular office hours.
B.
Policies and procedures. The public hearing shall be conducted by the planning commission. No one may speak until recognized by the presiding official, and then each speaker must state his name and address. Those who intend to speak shall sign up with the zoning administrator prior to the meeting.
C.
Public notice of policies and procedures. The policies and procedures listed in subparagraph (B) above shall be available to the public as a printed handout at every public hearing.
Sec. 13-5. - Posting of property.
A.
Erection of sign. Within 15 days prior to the public hearing held by the planning commission, a sign provided by the city shall be erected by the zoning administrator, which sign shall read as follows:
NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC
ZONING/SPECIAL EXCEPTION/VARIANCE NOTICE
The following change for a zoning amendment/special exception/variance in the Town of Brooklet has been requested (date) by (applicant) (property address) (application request & acreage) (present zoning) (proposed amendment/special exception/variance). A public hearing conducted by the Planning Commission will be held at Brooklet City Hall, 202 East Lee Street [now 104 Church Street] at (time) on (date). A public hearing before the City Council will be held at the same location at (time) on (date). The public is invited. For more information, call the zoning office at (912) 489-1356 or the City Clerk at (912) 842-2137.
Sec. 13-6. - Standards for approval.
The planning commission shall grant variances only upon a finding of hardship, as follows:
A.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape or topography; or
B.
The application of the zoning ordinance to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship; or
C.
There are conditions that are peculiar to the property involved which adversely affect its reasonable use or usability as currently zoned; or
D.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purpose or intent of the zoning ordinance. In no event shall a variance be granted for a use of land or structure that is prohibited in a given district by this ordinance.
Sec. 13-7. - Appeal.
The grant or denial of a variance may be appealed by any aggrieved party, including members of the planning commission or city council, by filing an appeal within 30 days of the decision with the clerk to the city council. The city council should review the record submitted to the planning commission and make its decision on those grounds. The decision of the city council may be appealed to superior court by seeking a writ of mandamus within 30 days of the decision, otherwise it is final.
Sec. 13-8. - Prohibited variances.
In no case shall a variance be granted for any of the following:
A.
A reduction of minimum lot size.
B.
A change in a zoning condition imposed by the city council.
