Chapter 10 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Animals, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Animal means any living creature, domestic or wild.
At large means off the premises of the owner or harborer of an animal, and not under the control of the owner, harborer, a member of his or her immediate family, or some other person, either by leash, cord, chain, fence or other holding device.
Dangerous animal means any wild animal, reptile, or fowl which is not naturally tame or gentle but is of a wild nature or disposition and which, because of its size, vicious nature, or other characteristics, would constitute a danger to human life or property if not kept or maintained in a safe manner or in secure quarters; and any domestic mammal, reptile, or fowl which, because of its size, vicious propensity, or other characteristic, would constitute a danger to human life or property if not kept or maintained in a safe manner or in secure quarters.
Harborer means any person that has provided sustenance and/or shelter to an animal for a period of more than three days within a 14-day period.
(Code 1986, § 3-1; Ord. of 6-16-2022(1), §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 10-2. - Fines.
modified
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $50.00 for the first violation, $200.00 for the second violation, and $500.00 for the third and any subsequent violation.
(Ord. of 6-16-2022(1), § 3)
Sec. 10-3. - Dangerous animals.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any dangerous or vicious animal of any kind to run at large within the city.
(b)
The police officers of the city shall be authorized to use such force as is necessary to prevent any such dangerous or vicious animal from causing harm to any person or property.
(Code 1986, § 3-2)
State Law reference— Dangerous dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; vicious dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-40 et seq.
Sec. 10-4. - Strays.
modified
It shall be unlawful for any person, including, but not limited to, the owner or harborer of any dog, cat, cattle, horse, swine, sheep, goat or poultry, to permit any such dog, cat, cattle, horse, swine, sheep, goat, or poultry to run at large in the city. If any such animal is found to be running at large in the city, it shall be impounded in the manner provided in this chapter, and the applicable owner or harborer of any such animal shall be subject to the penalties set forth in this chapter.
(Code 1986, § 3-3; Ord. of 6-16-2022(1), § 4)
Sec. 10-5. - Impoundment of animals running at large.
(a)
Duty of police officer to seize and impound. It shall be the duty of every police officer to seize all animals running at large in violation of the provisions of this chapter and to impound such animals in the city pound or other suitable place until they can be turned over to the humane society.
(b)
Notice to owner. Not later than two days after the impounding of any animal as provided subsection (a) of this section, the owner shall be notified or, if the owner of the animal is unknown, written notice shall be posted for five days on the front door of the city hall, which notice shall describe the animal and indicate the place and time of taking.
(c)
Redemption of animals. The owner of any impounded animal may redeem the animal by paying all costs, charges, and penalties assessed, which have accrued through the time of redemption. Said amount shall be paid to the city clerk at which time the city clerk shall issue to the owner a certificate of release to be presented at the place of impoundment in order to obtain release of the animal.
(d)
Disposition of unclaimed or infected animals. Upon the expiration of three days from the date of notice to the owner or five days from the posting of written notice, in the case of the owner being unknown, any animal impounded as herein provided which shall not have been redeemed either by the owner or by some other person, such animal may be disposed of in a humane manner. Any animal which appears to be suffering from rabies or affected with hydrophobia, mange, or any other infectious or dangerous disease shall not be released until the disease is arrested, or may be destroyed humanely as soon as such infection or disease is discovered.
(Code 1986, § 3-4)
Sec. 10-6. - Wild birds.
(a)
City designated as bird sanctuary. The city hereby designates the entire area embraced within the corporate limits as a bird sanctuary.
(b)
Signs. Appropriate signs are hereby authorized to be erected, designating the city as a bird sanctuary.
(c)
Trapping, etc., unlawful. It shall be unlawful to trap, shoot, hunt, or attempt to shoot or molest in any manner any wild bird or fowl. This provision shall not apply to domesticated fowl such as chickens, guineas, etc.
(d)
Destruction of nuisance species. If a species of bird is found to be a nuisance in the opinion of the mayor and council by a majority vote, then said species of bird may be destroyed in such manner as deemed advisable by the police department of the city.
(Ord. of 8-17-1990, § 1)
Secs. 10-7—10-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DOGS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Dangerous dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; vicious dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-40 et seq.

Sec. 10-31. - Running at large prohibited; removal of excreta.
It shall be unlawful for dogs to run at large in the city, and all owners, harborers and keepers of dogs are hereby required to keep their dogs in a safe enclosure to prevent their running at large. If the dogs are carried outside the enclosure they must be kept on a leash and the leash must be held by an individual at all times. The owner of each dog or the person having control of a dog on public property or on private property in which the owner of the dog has no ownership interest, shall be responsible for the immediate removal of any and all excreta deposited by any such dog on public property or on private property in the City of Brooklet in which the owner of such dog has no ownership interest.
(Code 1986, § 3-11; Ord. of 7-21-1980; Ord. of 6-21-2012, § 1)
Sec. 10-32. - Annual rabies treatment.
(a)
Required. All persons residing within the city limits who own, have, and keep dogs within said city limits, are hereby required to have said dogs treated annually for rabies by some licensed veterinarian.
(b)
Failure of owner to have dog treated. If the owner of said dog, after ten days' notice to him, fails or refuses to have his dog so treated, the chief of police or any member of the police department of the city shall impound said dog in accordance with section 10-5 and said dog shall be treated for all intents and purposes as an animal running at large.
(c)
Tag required. The owner of any dog shall be required to secure a tag from the veterinarian treating said dog.
(Code 1986, § 3-13; Ord. of 7-21-1980)
Sec. 10-33. - Number permitted to be kept; location.
No person shall be permitted to keep, possess, or have more than three dogs within the city limits within 300 yards of the residence of said owner or within 300 yards of the residence of any other citizen in the city.
(Code 1986, § 3-14)
