ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms and words are defined. Where words are not herein defined, but are defined in section 1-2, those words shall have the meaning as defined therein. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Addition (to an existing building) means any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected to a common load-bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing walls is new construction.
Administrator means the person appointed to administer and implement this article on post-construction stormwater management for new development and redevelopment in accordance with section 14-80.
Aggrieved persons means persons whose property is the subject of the action appealed from or a person's who has a substantial interest in the action appealed from that is in danger of suffering special damage or injury not common to all property owners similarly situated.
Agricultural operations means raising, harvesting or storing of crops; feeding, breeding or managing livestock or poultry; producing or storing feed for use in the production of livestock, including, but not limited to, cattle, calves, swine, hogs, goats, sheep, and rabbits or for use in the production of poultry, including, but not limited to, chickens, hens and turkeys; producing plants, trees, fowl, or animals; the production of aquaculture, horticultural, dairy, livestock, poultry, eggs and apiarian products; farm buildings and farm ponds.
Alley means a minor way, which is used primarily for vehicular service access to the back or side of properties otherwise fronting on a street.
Applicant means a person submitting a land development application for approval.
As-built drawings means amended site plans specifying the location, dimensions, elevations, capacities and operational capabilities of public improvements, including water, sewer, road and drainage structures and stormwater management facilities as they have been constructed.
Bank (stream bank) means the sloping land that contains the stream channel and the normal flows of the stream.
Basement means a space having one-half or more of its floor-to-ceiling height below the average level of adjoining ground and with a floor-to-ceiling height of not less than six and one-half feet.
Best management practices (BMPs) means these include sound conservation and engineering practices to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the 'Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia' published by the Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted.
BMP landscaping plan means a design for vegetation and landscaping that is critical to the performance and function of the BMP including how the BMP will be stabilized and established with vegetation. It shall include a layout of plants and plant names (local and scientific).
Bicycle lane means that part of a street or highway adjacent to the roadway, designated by official signs or markings for use by persons riding bicycles.
Block means a piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways or streets, other than alleys. In cases where the platting is incomplete or disconnected, the community development department may delineate the outline of the block.
BNR means the board of natural resources.
Buffer means the area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of state waters in its natural state of vegetation, which facilitates the protection of water quality and aquatic habitat.
Buffer, city, means an area of land 50 feet in width immediately adjacent to the state buffer.
Buffer, state, means an area of land 25 feet in width immediately adjacent to the banks of state waters in its natural state of vegetation, which facilitates the protection of water quality and aquatic habitat.
Buffer, stream, means the state buffer and the city buffer as measured horizontally from the top of the stream bank.
Buildable area means the area of a lot remaining after all setback requirements, including buffer areas, have been met.
Building means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and intended for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of any individual, animal, process, equipment, goods, or materials of any kind.
Building permit means required written permission issued by the community development department for the construction, repair, alteration, or addition to a structure.
Building setback line means the minimum horizontal distance required between the public right-of-way or the utility easement abutting a private street and the principal building or structure on a lot or any projection thereof except projections that are authorized exceptions to building set, back line requirements in chapter 27 and any zoning conditions approved by the city council pursuant thereto. The size of the utility easements for a private street shall be equal to the required size of the public right-of-way and shall not be any smaller in width or length than what would be required for a public right-of-way.
Caliper means the diameter of a tree trunk, applied only to new or replacement plantings, measured six inches above the ground for up to and including four-inch caliper size and 12 inches above the ground for larger sizes.
Certified personnel means a person who has successfully completed the appropriate certification course approved by the state soil and water conservation commission.
Channel means a natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conveys continuously or periodically flowing water.
Channel protection means the protection of stream channels, in accordance with the state stormwater management manual, from bank and bed erosion and degradation by preserving or restoring the applicable stream buffer, by providing extended detention, and by integrating erosion prevention measures such as energy dissipation and velocity control.
Conservation easement means a restriction or limitation on the use of real property which is expressly recited in any deed or other instrument of grant or conveyance executed by or on behalf of the owner of the land described therein and whose purpose is to preserve land or water areas predominantly in their natural scenic landscape or open condition or in an agricultural farming, forest or open space use and includes conservation easements authorized by state law.
Construction means any alteration of land for the purpose of achieving its development or changed use, including particularly any preparation for, building of or erection of a structure.
Construction sequencing plan means a document noting the sequence of construction and identification of infiltration zones for protection during staged installation of permanent post-construction BMPs to ensure suitable site conditions such as avoiding soil compaction by heavy equipment in areas designated for infiltration BMPs.
Construction waste means waste building materials and rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair and demolition operations on pavements, houses, commercial buildings and other structures. Such waste includes, but is not limited to, asbestos-containing waste, wood, tree stumps, tree tops, bricks, metal, concrete block, wall board, paper, cardboard, glass, wire, plastics, and other typical construction waste products and refuse.
CPESC means Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control with current certification by EnviroCert, Inc., which is also referred to as CPESC or CPESC, Inc.
Crosswalk means a right-of-way within a block dedicated to public use, ten feet or more in width, intended primarily for pedestrians and from which motor-propelled vehicles are excluded, and which is designed to improve or provide access to adjacent roads or lots.
Cut means a portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to excavated surface. The term "cut" is also known as "excavation."
DNR means the department of natural resources of the state.
Deck, elevated, means an open, unenclosed structure elevated above pervious natural grade that is attached to the primary structure.
Density factor means a unit of measurement used to prescribe the calculated required tree coverage on a site.
Design professional means a professional licensed by the state in the field of engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, forestry, geology, or land surveying; or a person that is a certified professional in erosion and sediment control (CPESC) with a current certification by Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control, Inc.
Detention means the temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a stormwater detention facility for the purpose of controlling the peak discharge.
Detention facility means a structure designed for the storage and gradual release of stormwater runoff at controlled rates.
Development means new development or redevelopment.
District means the DeKalb County Soil and Water Conservation District.
Division means the Environmental Protection Division (EPD) of the Department of Natural Resources.
Drainage means the removal of surface or subsurface water from a given area, either by gravity or by pumping, commonly applied herein to surface water.
Drainage easement means an easement appurtenant or attached to a tract or parcel of land allowing the owners of adjacent tracts or other persons to discharge stormwater runoff onto the tract or parcel of land subject to the drainage easement.
Drainage plan means a plan prepared using appropriate and commonly accepted engineering standards, which specifies the means for alteration or development of a drainage system.
Drainage structure means a device composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for stormwater management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
Drainage system means the surface and subsurface system for the removal of water from the land, including, but not limited to, both the natural elements of streams, marshes, swales and ponds, whether of an intermittent or continuous nature, and the manmade element which includes culverts, ditches, channels, detention facilities that comprise the storm drainage system.
Elevated building means a nonbasement building built to have the lowest floor elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls, pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls.
EPD means the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources.
Erosion means the process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
Erosion and sedimentation control plan means a plan required by the Erosion and Sedimentation Act, O.C.G.A. ch. 12-7, that includes, as a minimum protections at least as stringent as the State General Permit, best management practices, and requirements in section (4) c. of this section.
Extended detention means the storage of stormwater runoff for an extended period of time.
Extreme flood protection means measures taken to prevent adverse impacts from large low-frequency storm events with a return frequency of 100 years or more.
Fill means a portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground surface or an excavation.
Final stabilization means that all soil-disturbing activities at the site have been completed, and that for unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures and areas located outside the waste disposal limits of a landfill cell that has been certified by EPD for waste disposal, 100 percent of the soil surface is uniformly covered in permanent vegetation with a density of 70 percent or greater, or landscaped according to the plan (uniformly covered with landscaping materials in planned landscape areas), or equivalent permanent stabilization measures as defined in the manual (excluding a crop of annual vegetation and seeding of target crop perennials appropriate for the region). Final stabilization applies to each phase of construction.
Finished grade means the final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Flood insurance rate map (FIRM) means an official map of a community, on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
Flood insurance study means the official report provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the flood boundary floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
Flooding means a volume of surface water that exceeds the banks or walls of a BMP, or channel; and overflows onto adjacent lands.
Floodplain means any land area susceptible to flooding, which would have at least a one percent probability of a flooding occurrence in any calendar year based on the basin being fully developed as shown on the current land use plan (i.e., the regulatory flood).
Floor means the top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including basement), i.e., the top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of wood flooring in wood frame construction. The term does not include the floor of a garage used solely for parking vehicles.
Frontage, lot, means the distance for which the front boundary line of the lot and the street line are coincident.
Georgia Stormwater Management Manual (GSMM) means the latest edition of the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, Volume 2: Technical Handbook, and its appendices.
Grading means altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Ground elevation means the original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Hotspot means a land use or activity on a site that has the potential to produce higher than normally found levels of pollutants in stormwater runoff. As defined by the administrator, hotspot land use may include gasoline stations, vehicle service and maintenance areas, industrial facilities (both permitted under the Industrial Stormwater General Permit and others), material storage sites, garbage transfer facilities, and commercial parking lots with high-intensity use.
Impervious surface means a surface composed of any material including, but is not limited to, rooftops, buildings, parking lots, driveways, streets, roads, decks (other than elevated slatted decks), swimming pools, patio areas, paved storage areas, compacted gravel areas, artificial turf, awnings and any concrete or asphalt areas that significantly impedes or prevents the natural infiltration of water into the soil.
Industrial Stormwater General Permit means the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued by Georgia Environmental Protection Division to an industry for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity. The permit regulates pollutant levels associated with industrial stormwater discharges or specifies on-site pollution control strategies based on Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Code.
Infiltration means the process of percolating stormwater runoff into the subsoil.
Inspection and maintenance agreement means a written agreement providing for the long-term inspection, operation, and maintenance of the stormwater management system and its components on a site.
Intermediate regional flood (IRF) means a 100-year frequency flood as defined on the flood hazard map which has a probability of occurring once every 100 years or having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. (Also known as the base flood, or 100-year flood.)
Intermediate regional floodplain means the land area within the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year as defined on the flood hazard map. (Also known as area of special flood hazard, or 100-year floodplain.)
Land development application means the application for a land development permit on a form provided by the City of Brookhaven along with the supporting documentation required in section 14-86(1).
Land development permit means the authorization necessary to begin construction-related, land-disturbing activity
Land disturbing activity means any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state water or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, and filling of land. Land disturbing activity does not include agricultural practices as described O.C.G.A. 12-7-17(5) or silvicultural land management activities as described O.C.G.A. 12-7-17(6) within areas zoned for these activities.
Larger common plan of development or sale means a contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct construction activities are occurring under one plan of development or sale. For the purposes of this definition, "plan" means an announcement, piece of documentation such as a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request, or computer design, or physical demarcation such as boundary signs, lot stakes, or surveyor markings indicating that construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
Linear feasibility program means a feasibility program developed by the City of Brookhaven and submitted to the Georgia Environmental Protection Division, which sets reasonable criteria for determining when implementation of stormwater management standards for linear transportation projects being constructed by the City of Brookhaven is infeasible.
Linear transportation projects means construction projects on traveled ways including, but not limited to, roads, sidewalks, multi-use paths and trails, and airport runways and taxiways.
Live detention means that quantity of water capable of being effectively contained by a designated facility for stormwater storage for a specified period of time.
Local issuing authority means the governing authority of any county or municipality which is certified pursuant to subsection (a) O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8.
Local street means a street used primarily for access to abutting properties in residential, industrial or other developments.
Lot means a designated parcel, tract, or area of land legally established by plat, subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be separately owned, used, developed, or built upon.
Lot, corner, means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection or upon two parts of the same street forming an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
Manufactured home means a new or used structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this definition, except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 USC section 5401 et seq.
Metropolitan River Protection Act (MRPA) means a state law referenced as O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq. which addresses environmental and developmental matters in certain Metropolitan River corridors and their drainage basins.
Minor site work permit means a development permit for minor activities including, but not limited to, increases in impervious area, replacement of paving/concrete, paving system installation, driveway expansion, landscaping, retaining walls less than four feet in height, land disturbance less than 5,000 square feet, and drainage improvements as determined by the director of community development or his designee.
Multi-use trail means a recreation corridor intended for the use of non-motorized forms of transportation such as, but not limited to, walking, running, bicycles, in-line skates, as identified in a master plan for multi-use trails in city approved by the city council.
MS4 permit means the NPDES permit issued by Georgia Environmental Protection Division for discharges from the City of Brookhaven's municipal separate storm sewer system.
Natural ground surface means the ground surface in its original state before any grading excavation or filling.
Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU) means numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed or suspended particles are present.
New development means land disturbing activities, structural development (construction, installation or expansion of a building or other structure), and/or creation of impervious surfaces on a previously undeveloped site.
NOI means a notice of intent form provided by EPD for coverage under the State General Permit.
Nonpoint source pollution means a form of water pollution that does not originate from a discrete point such as a wastewater treatment facility or industrial discharge, but involves the transport of pollutants such as sediment, fertilizers, pesticides, heavy metals, oil, grease, bacteria, organic materials and other contaminants from land to surface water or groundwater via mechanisms such as precipitation, stormwater runoff, and leaching. Nonpoint source pollution is a by-product of land use practices such as agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
NOT means a notice of termination form provided by EPD to terminate coverage under the State General Permit.
Off-site facility means a stormwater management facility located outside the boundaries of the site.
100-year floodplain means land in the floodplain subject to a one percent or greater statistical occurrence probability of flooding in any given year.
On-site facility means a stormwater management facility located within the boundaries of the site.
Open space means that portion of a lot, including yards, established pursuant to the requirements of this chapter as open space, which is open and unobstructed from ground level to the sky, with the exception of natural foliage or accessory recreational facilities or walkways, which is accessible to all persons occupying a building on the lot and is not a part of the roof of any portion of any building.
Operator means the party or parties that have:
(1)
Operational control of construction project plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications; or
(2)
Day-to-day operational control of those activities that are necessary to ensure compliance with a stormwater pollution prevention plan for the site or other permit conditions, such as a person authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out activities required by the stormwater pollution prevention plan or to comply with other permit conditions.
Outfall means the location where stormwater in a discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, leaves a facility or site or, if there is receiving water on site, becomes a point source discharging into that receiving water.
Overbank flood protection means measures taken to prevent an increase in the frequency and magnitude of out-of-bank flooding (i.e. flow events that exceed the capacity of the channel and enter the floodplain).
Owner means the legal or beneficial owner of a site, including, but not limited to, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm or corporation in control of the site.
Parcel means any plot, lot or acreage shown as a unit on the latest county tax assessment records.
Permit means the authorization necessary to conduct a land-disturbing activity under the provisions of this section.
Person means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, city, county or other political subdivision of the state, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Phase or phased means subparts or segments of construction projects where the subpart or segment is constructed and stabilized prior to completing construction activities on the entire construction site.
Post-construction stormwater management means stormwater best management practices that are used on a permanent basis to control and treat runoff once construction has been completed in accordance with a stormwater management plan.
Post-development means the conditions anticipated to exist on site immediately after completion of the proposed development.
Practicability policy means the latest edition of the Metropolitan North Georgia Water Planning District's Policy on Practicability Analysis for Runoff Reduction.
Pre-development means the conditions that exist on a site immediately before the implementation of the proposed development. Where phased development or plan approval occurs (preliminary grading, roads and utilities, etc.), the existing conditions at the time before the first item being approved or permitted shall establish pre-development conditions.
Pre-development hydrology means the runoff curve number determined using natural conditions hydrologic analysis based on the natural, undisturbed condition of the site.
Previously developed site means a site that has been altered by paving, construction, and/or land disturbing activity.
Project means the entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
Properly designed means designed in accordance with the design requirements and specifications contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia Manual" published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted and amendments to the manual as approved by the commission up until the date of NOI submittal.
Public facilities means the roads, water, sewer, schools, traffic control devices, and electrical service of the city.
Public works director means the director of the public works department or designee.
Reasonable access means a 15-foot access easement from the public right-of-way to the stormwater management facility and a ten-foot drainage and maintenance easement on all four sides of the stormwater management facility.
Recreation areas means those portions of open space designed and intended for active recreational use, such as sports fields and other play areas.
Redevelopment means structural development (construction, installation, or expansion of a building or other structure), creation or addition of impervious surfaces, replacement of impervious surfaces not as part of routine maintenance, and land disturbing activities associated with structural or impervious development on a previously developed site. Redevelopment does not include such activities as exterior remodeling.
Regional stormwater management facility or regional facility means stormwater management facilities designed to control stormwater runoff from multiple properties, where the owners or developers of the individual properties may assist in the financing of the facility, and the requirement for on-site controls is either eliminated or reduced.
Residential shall have the same meaning as given in chapter 27, except that it shall not include apartments.
Roadway drainage structure means a device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled way consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Rock outcropping means a single, contiguous piece of exposed rock that has a horizontal surface area equal to or greater than 200 square feet.
Routine maintenance means activities to keep an impervious surface as near as possible to its constructed condition. This includes ordinary maintenance activities, resurfacing paved areas, and exterior building changes or improvements which do not materially increase or concentrate stormwater runoff, or cause additional nonpoint source pollution.
Runoff means stormwater runoff.
Sediment means solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, ice or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sedimentation means the process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
Sediment basin means a detention facility specifically developed for the purpose of allowing the deposit of sediment resulting from the land development process that may be constructed as part of or separately from a detention facility.
Site means an area of land where development is planned, which may include all or portions of one or more parcels of land. For subdivisions and other common plans of development, the site includes all areas of land covered under an applicable land development permit.
Site plan means that plan required to acquire a development, construction or building permit which shows the means by which the applicant will conform to applicable provisions of this chapter and other applicable ordinances.
SS&WCC means the state soil and water conservation commission.
Stabilization means the process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
State general permit means the national pollution discharge elimination system general permit or permits for stormwater runoff from construction activities as is now in effect or as may be amended or reissued in the future pursuant to the state's authority to implement the same through federal delegation under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 USC § 1251 et seq. and O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f).
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state, which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
Stormwater better site design means nonstructural site design approach and technique that can reduce a site's impact on the watershed and can provide for nonstructural stormwater management. Stormwater better site design includes conserving and protecting natural areas and greenspace, reducing impervious cover and using natural features for stormwater management.
Stormwater concept plan means an initial plan for post-construction stormwater management at the site that provides the groundwork for the stormwater management plan including the natural resources inventory, site layout concept, initial runoff characterization, and first round stormwater management system design.
Stormwater management manual means the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual.
Stormwater management plan means a plan for post-construction stormwater management at the site that meets the requirements of section 14-84(d) and is included as part of the land development application.
Stormwater management standards means those standards set forth in section 14-83.
Stormwater management system means the entire set of non-structural site design features and structural BMPs for collection, conveyance, storage, infiltration, treatment, and disposal of stormwater runoff in a manner designed to prevent increased flood damage, streambank channel erosion, habitat degradation and water quality degradation, and to enhance and promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
Stormwater runoff means flow on the surface of the ground, resulting from precipitation.
Stream means state waters, and natural, running water flowing continuously or intermittently in a channel on or below the surface of the ground, and includes, but is not limited to, all natural or manmade streams depicted on the 1995 city Geographic Information System (GIS) map maintained by the city GIS director. Stream starts at the location of a spring, seep or groundwater outflow that sustains stream flow. No stream shall be excluded from this definition due to its failure to be identified on the GIS map. Field verification shall be performed to make a final determination as to the existence of a stream where a dispute exists. Such field verification may be performed by the director.
Streambank means as measured horizontally from that point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action.
Street, private, means an access way similar to and having the same function as a public street, providing access to more than one property but held in private ownership. Private streets, when authorized, shall be developed in accordance with the specifications for public streets established in article VII, division 3, subdivision II of this chapter.
Street right-of-way means the dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a street right-of-way.
Structure means anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on or in the ground. The term "structure" does not include telephone poles and utility boxes.
Structural erosion, sedimentation and pollution control practices means practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are rip rap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures and sediment traps, etc. Such practices can be found in the publication "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia."
Structural stormwater control means a structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow of such runoff.
Subdivision means the division of a tract or parcel of land resulting in one or more new lots or building sites for the purpose, whether immediately or in the future, of sale, other transfer of ownership or land development, and includes divisions of land resulting from or made in connection with the layout or development of a new street or roadway or a change in an existing street or roadway.
SWCD means the soil and water conservation district within which the city is located.
Tree harvesting means the felling, loading, and transporting of timber products done pursuant to a special exception issued by the board of appeals.
Tree replacement means the replacement of trees and landscape plant materials into the minimum required landscape areas, as determined by the zoning regulations or the tree protection ordinance.
Trout streams means all streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the game and fish division of the state department of natural resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq.
Trout waters, first order, means streams into which no other streams flow except springs.
Trout waters, primary, means streams or waters supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout.
Trout waters, secondary, means streams or waters in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction, but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year.
Used for includes the phrases "arranged for," "designed for," "intended for," "maintained for" and "occupied for."
Vegetation means all plant growth, especially trees, shrubs, vines, ferns, mosses and grasses.
Vegetative erosion and sedimentation control measures means measures for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by: covering the soil with permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover; temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass. Such measures can be found in the publication "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia."
Watercourse means any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Water quality protection means the requirement that all developments must improve the quality of storm runoff from the development site.
Watershed means the land area that drains into a particular stream.
Wetlands means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. The term "wetlands" generally includes swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
(Ord. No. 2014-12-04, § 1(14-1), 12-16-2014; Ord. No. 2017-08-07 , § I, 8-22-2017; Ord. No. 2018-05-04 , § I, 5-22-2018; Ord. No. 2019-05-07 , § I(Attch.), 5-28-2019; Ord. No. 2020-09-02 , § I(Attch.), 9-8-2020; Ord. No. 2021-07-02 , § I(Attch.), 7-27-2021; Ord. No. 2021-12-06 , § I, 12-14-2021)
Secs. 14-2—14-20. - Reserved.
