ARTICLE IV. - JUDICIAL BRANCH

Sec. 4-1. - Creation; name.
There shall be a court to be known as the Municipal Court of the City of Brooklet.
Sec. 4-2. - Judge of the Municipal Court of the City of Brooklet.
(a)
The Municipal Court of the City of Brooklet shall be presided over by a judge appointed by the mayor and council. The judge may also be removed for cause by a vote of three members of the city council. Compensation of the judge shall be determined by the mayor and council.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the municipal court unless he or she shall have attained the age of 21 years and shall be a member of the state bar of Georgia.
(c)
Before assuming office, the judge shall take an oath, given by the mayor, that he or she will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his or her office to the best of his or her ability and without fear, favor, or partiality.
Sec. 4-3. - Convening.
The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals as determined by the mayor and council.
Sec. 4-4. - Jurisdiction, powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violations of this Charter, all city ordinances, and such other violations as provided by law.
(b)
The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not be in excess of $200.00 or ten days in jail.
(c)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of $1,000.00, or imprisonment for 60 days, or both such fine and imprisonment, or may fix punishment by fine, imprisonment, or alternative sentencing as now or hereafter provided by law.
(d)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for that person's appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, the bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time, and an execution issued thereon by serving the defendant and the defendant's sureties with a rule nisi, at least two days before a hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial, and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge declared forfeited to the city, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(e)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments, and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(f)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summonses, subpoenas, and warrants which may be served and executed by any officer as authorized by this Charter or by law.
(g)
The judge of the municipal court shall be authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged with offenses against any ordinance of the city, and each judge of the municipal court shall have the same authority as a magistrate of the state to issue warrants for offenses against state laws committed within the city.
(h)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violations of state law.
(i)
The municipal court judge of the city is authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of all persons charged, upon affidavits made before the judge, with having committed within the limits of the City of Brooklet offenses against any ordinance of the city or penal law of the state, and to take examination of such persons, and the same to discharge or commit to the county jail or let to bail, according to law, to answer such charge before the court having jurisdiction, all of which warrants shall be addressed to "the Chief of Police of Brooklet, Georgia, or any lawful policeman thereof, and to all and singular the sheriffs, deputy sheriffs, and constables of this state," and any one of the officers shall have the same authority to execute the warrants as the sheriffs of this state have to execute criminal warrants.
Sec. 4-5. - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases and ordinance violation cases, and such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of a judge of the Superior Court of Bulloch County under the laws of the State of Georgia regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
Sec. 4-6. - Rules of court.
With the approval of the city council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the city council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations applicable to superior courts.
