APPENDIX A - SUBDIVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the city's subdivision ordinance, being an appendix to the zoning ordinance adopted on March 4, 2002. Amendments to the original ordinance are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended sections. The absence of a history note indicates that the section remains unchanged from the original zoning ordinance. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, capitalization, and expression of numbers in text has been used to conform to the city Code. Material encased in brackets has been editorially supplied.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 1. - General definitions.
Except as specifically defined herein, or as set forth in section 2 of this article, all words used in this chapter [ordinance] shall carry their customary dictionary meanings.
Sec. 2. - Additional definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter [ordinance] shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Cul-de-sac means a dead end street where there is room to turn at a circular end.
Master plan (same as a comprehensive plan) means any part or element of the overall plan for development adopted by the city council.
Street means, relates to, and includes a right-of-way affording primary access to abutting property including avenues, boulevards, roads, highways, expressways, lanes, alleys, and other public or private ways.
Subdivider means an individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation, trust or any other legal entity (or agent therefor) that undertakes the activities covered by these regulations. Inasmuch as the subdivision plat is merely a necessary means to the end of assuring satisfactory development, the term "subdivider" is intended to include terms "developer" and "builder" even though the persons involved in successive stages of the project may vary.
Subdivision means a division of a tract or parcel of land (which existed at the time of the enactment of this zoning ordinance as one contiguous parcel for zoning purposes) into three or more lots, building sites, or divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of conveyance, transfer, improvement, sale, legacy or building development, and includes all division of land involving a new street (regardless of the number of lots) or a change in existing streets, and includes a resubdivision, provided however, that the following are not included within this definition: The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the standards set forth in this chapter [ordinance].
Sec. 3. - Purpose.
This chapter [ordinance] is enacted to encourage the development of an economically sound and stable community; to assure the provision of required streets, utilities, and other facilities and services to new land developments; to assure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in new land developments; to the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, education, and other public purposes; to assure, in general the development of areas in harmony with the master plan of the community; and to secure equitable handling of all subdivision plans by providing uniform procedures and standards for observance both by the subdivider and the planning commission.
Sec. 4. - Four-step review.
The procedure for review, consideration, and approval of a subdivision plat consists of four separate steps. These are:
A.
Review of sketch plans by the building inspector and zoning administrator;
B.
Consideration and approval of sketch plans by the planning commission;
C.
Review of preliminary plats by the building inspector and zoning administrator with subsequent approvals by the planning commission and city council; and
D.
Review of final plat by the building inspector and zoning administrator.
Steps A, B and C shall be completed prior to making any street improvement or installing any utilities. Step D shall be completed prior to the sale of any lots in the proposed subdivision.
Sec. 5. - Conflict with other laws.
When the provisions of this chapter [ordinance] specify more restrictive standards than required by any other statute, the requirements of this chapter [ordinance] shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other statute require more restrictive standards, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
ARTICLE II. - SKETCH PLANS

Sec. 1. - Sketch plan review procedures.
At least 25 days prior to the regularly scheduled monthly meeting of the planning commission, the subdivider shall submit to the zoning administrator 12 copies of a sketch plan of the proposed subdivision. If phase development is contemplated, then a sketch plan for each phase will be required simultaneously. Included with the sketch plan must be a sketch map which shows the subdivision in relation to the surrounding area. The purpose of the sketch plan is to assist the subdivider prior to extensive site planning necessary for the preparation of the preliminary plat and to enable the subdivider to become familiar with the regulations affecting the land to be subdivided. Utilizing the comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance, the building inspector, zoning administrator and the planning commission shall review and approve, disapprove, or approve with modification the sketch plan within 45 days from the meeting at which it is considered. Pertinent comments and recommendations shall be noted in the minutes of the planning commission meeting. Failure of the subdivider to submit a preliminary plat within 18 months from the approval of the sketch plan will require resubmittal of the sketch plan to the planning commission for reconsideration.
Sec. 2. - Sketch plan.
Scale. The sketch plan shall be drawn at a scale of not less than 100 feet to one inch.
Vicinity map. The sketch plan shall include a vicinity map at a scale not less than one inch equals one mile showing the relationship of the proposed subdivision to surrounding development.
Other requirements. The sketch plan shall show:
A.
Proposed name of subdivision;
B.
Name, address and telephone number of petitioner, architect, surveyor, engineer and designer;
C.
All names and addresses of all property owners of the site;
D.
All names and addresses, as listed by the county assessor, of all owners of the land adjacent to the site and location of those property lines;
E.
North indicator;
F.
Date of preparation;
G.
Total acreage of the tract to be subdivided, lot layout, and estimated lot sizes;
H.
Zoning district classification of land to be subdivided and adjoining land;
I.
Existing and proposed uses of land throughout the subdivisions, including streets, roads, utility easements, and land reserved or dedicated for public or common use;
J.
In case of a resubdivision, a copy of the existing plat with the proposed resubdivision superimposed thereon;
K.
Location of natural features such as streams, lakes, swamps, and land subject to flood based on a 100-year flood frequency on the property to be subdivided;
L.
Location of existing buildings on the property to be subdivided;
M.
Location of city limit lines and county lines (if applicable);
N.
Sketch plan shall be on one sheet where practical. If the complete plan cannot be shown on one sheet, it may be shown on more than one sheet with an index map on a separate sheet of the same size.
Subdivision of part of property. The subdivider shall submit a sketch plan of such subdivider's entire tract even though such subdivider's present plans call for the actual development of only a part of the property.
Recorded deed and plat. Along with the sketch plan, the subdivider shall submit a copy of the recorded deed vesting title in the owner(s) and a copy of any recorded plat showing the property.
Sec. 3. - Fees.
A sketch plan fee in the amount specified on the chart of fees maintained by the city clerk shall be paid upon filing.
ARTICLE III. - PRELIMINARY PLAT

Sec. 1. - Submission of plat.
Following the sketch plan approval stage of proposed land subdivision, the subdivider shall submit to the planning commission and zoning administrator the following:
A.
The preliminary plat and other documents as specified hereafter.
B.
A letter requesting review and approval of the preliminary plat and giving the name and address of a person to whom the notice of a hearing by the planning commission on the preliminary plat shall be sent.
C.
A preliminary plat filing fee in the amount specified on the chart of fees maintained by the city clerk.
Sec. 2. - Review of preliminary plat.
The zoning administrator shall review the preliminary plat for conformance to the rules and regulations of this chapter [ordinance], and the requirements of the zoning ordinance, and shall take into consideration the general requirements of the community and the best use of the land to be subdivided.
Sec. 3. - Preliminary plat procedures.
A.
The zoning administrator shall transmit a copy of the application for preliminary plat approval to each member of the planning commission for their review and recommendation. Further, the zoning administrator will provide a copy of the application to each city council member and the mayor. The planning commission shall have a 60-day period subsequent to the receipt of the preliminary plat application from the zoning administrator within which to make its recommendation to the city council. If the planning commission fails to submit the recommendation within the 60-day period, it shall be deemed to have approved the preliminary plat as submitted. Prior to taking action on the application for approval of a preliminary plat, the planning commission must hold a public hearing at the regularly scheduled date and time for planning commission hearings.
B.
Upon a recommendation being submitted by the planning commission, the city council shall conduct a review and either approve, disapprove, or conditionally approve the preliminary plat. The city council shall have a 60[-day] period within which to make its decision after receipt of the recommendation by the planning commission.
Sec. 4. - Tentative and conditional nature of the preliminary plat approval.
Tentative and conditional approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute approval of the final plat. Rather, it shall be deemed an expression of approval of the layout submitted on the preliminary plat as a guide to the preparation of the final plat which will be submitted for approval of the building inspector and zoning administrator.
Sec. 5. - Expiration of tentative approval of preliminary plat.
The tentative approval shall expire after one year unless an extension of time is granted by the planning commission.
Sec. 6. - Preliminary plat specifications.
The preliminary plat shall meet the following requirements:
A.
Number of copies. Twelve copies of the preliminary plat shall be furnished by the subdivider.
B.
Form. The preliminary plat shall be drawn clearly and legibly at scale of one inch equals 100 feet, or less. The sheet size shall not be less than 16 inches by 24 inches. If the complete plat cannot be shown on one sheet, it may be shown on more than one sheet with an index map on a separate sheet of the same size.
Sec. 7. - Data required on preliminary plat.
The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a licensed architect, engineer or land surveyor and contain the following information:
A.
Proposed subdivision name or identifying title and acreage to be subdivided.
B.
Name and address of owner of record, subdivider, architect, surveyor, engineer, designer and owners of adjoining property.
C.
Date and north point.
D.
Topography by contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet. A certificate from an authorized engineer or surveyor shall be required stating the drainage from the property is adequate and will not adversely affect adjacent property owners.
E.
Exact boundaries and acreage of the tract to be subdivided by distances and bearings.
F.
Existing and proposed easements and their approximate location, width and distances.
G.
Names and dimensions of existing and proposed streets and alleys on and adjacent to the tract.
H.
Location and type of existing and proposed sewerage and storm drainage and water supply facilities and other utilities on or adjacent to the tract, showing proposed connection.
I.
Sites, if any, and their acreage, to be reserved or dedicated for public uses.
J.
Present zoning classifications of land to be subdivided and adjoining land.
K.
Vicinity map showing location of subdivision and its relationship to the rest of the city and surrounding countryside. This may be shown at a smaller scale.
L.
The names, where appropriate, and locations and dimensions of proposed streets, alleys, sidewalks, easements, buildings, parking, recreation areas and facilities, yards and other open spaces.
M.
Utility and drainage plans shall be provided including all information required by the Bulloch County health department and the city street and water departments. All such utility and drainage plans shall be prepared and approved by a licensed professional engineer. The subdivider shall be responsible for all such costs.
N.
Location, dimensions, and treatment of all required buffers, landscaped or planted areas including fences.
O.
A preliminary outline of proposed protective covenants, including provisions for the organization and financing of a homeowner's association where appropriate.
P.
All preliminary plats must contain warranties, representations and/or a contract with a licensed professional engineer to provide inspections and certifications that the subdivision "as built" complies with the terms and conditions of the approved plans.
Q.
The acreage of each draining area affecting the proposed subdivision. The drainage area may extend beyond the area to be subdivided.
R.
Layout of streets, roads, alleys, public crosswalks, and widths, road names, or designations, grades and cross sections.
S.
Profile of proposed streets showing natural and finished grades with percent of grade slope.
T.
Detailed layout of all lots, including building setback lines; scaled dimensions on lots; utility easements with width and use.
U.
Construction drawings of sanitary sewers (if applicable) with grade, pipe size, location of manholes, and points of discharge and percolation tests, soil borings and wells as specified by the health department.
V.
Plans of all drainage provision, retaining walls, curbing, planting, anti-erosion devices or other protective devices to be constructed in connection with or as a part of the proposed work, together with a map showing the drainage area of land tributary to the site and estimated runoff of the area served by any drains.
W.
Construction drawings, prepared and approved by an engineer licensed in the state of Georgia, of water supply system with pipe sizes and locations of hydrants and valves.
X.
Proposed major contour changes to areas where substantial cut and/or fill is to be done.
Y.
A timing schedule indicating the anticipated starting and completion dates of the development sequence and the timing of exposure of each area prior to the completion of effective erosion and sediment control measures.
Z.
Total number of lots, total acreage, total length and width of new streets.
Sec. 8. - Review and approval.
The preliminary plat shall be approved by the planning commission only after review and approval of the following:
A.
The Bulloch County health department shall review the sewage disposal facilities to be provided on all preliminary plats after being provided with such percolation tests or other information as it may require. In addition, it shall make determinations in all matters concerning the public health, as specified herein. Such determinations and recommendations shall be forwarded to the building inspector and zoning administrator in writing.
B.
A land disturbing activity permit, pursuant to the Bulloch County Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Ordinance, including all amendments in effect as of the date of application for such permit, shall be required prior to any land disturbing activity on the project site. "Land-disturbing activity" includes, but is not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land. An approved sediment and erosion control plan and review by the soil conservation service and/or other agencies or officials designated by the building and zoning official is required as part of the application for the permit.
ARTICLE IV. - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND DESIGN STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS

Sec. 1. - Compliance with article.
Subdivider shall observe the general requirements and design standards of land subdivisions provided in this article.
Sec. 2. - Public sites and open spaces.
A.
When a proposed school site or other public building site, park, or other land for public use is located in whole or part in the subdivision, the planning commission may require that, as a prerequisite to plat approval, such sites shall be dedicated or reserved by the subdivider for acquisition by the appropriate public agency.
B.
Areas for parks, playgrounds, or other public uses shall be not less than five percent of the subdivided area.
C.
Whenever a plat proposes the dedication of land to a public use that the planning commission finds not required or suitable for such public use, the planning commission shall refuse to approve the plat.
D.
The approval of a plat by the planning commission shall not be deemed to constitute or effect an acceptance by the city of the dedication of any streets or other grounds shown upon the plat.
Sec. 3. - Suitability of land.
Land subject to flooding and land deemed by the commission to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential occupancy nor for such other use as may increase danger to health, life, or property, or aggravate the flood hazard, but such land shall be set aside for such uses as shall not be endangered by periodic or occasional inundation.
Sec. 4. - Lots.
Lots shall front upon a public street. Lot lines shall be generally perpendicular or radial to street lines. Lot dimensions shall meet the requirements of the comprehensive zoning ordinance for the district in which the subdivision is located. Corner lots shall be increased in size wherever necessary so as to provide that any structure to be placed thereon shall conform to the minimum setback lines as required in the comprehensive zoning ordinance.
Sec. 5. - Blocks.
The length shall not exceed 1,200 feet or be less than 400 feet and the width sufficient to provide for two tiers of lots, but irregularly shaped lots indented by cul-de-sac streets and containing interior parks will be acceptable when properly designed and provision made for maintenance of interior parks.
Sec. 6. - Streets.
modified
A.
Conformance to existing streets: The arrangement of streets in the subdivision shall provide for the continuation of the principal streets in adjoining subdivisions or for their proper projection when adjoining property has not yet been subdivided.
B.
Street names: Street names shall require the approval of the planning commission and Bulloch County 911 services. Streets that are obviously in alignment with streets already existing and named shall be given the name of the existing street. Names of new streets shall not duplicate or closely approximate those of existing streets.
C.
Street jogs: Street jogs with centerline offsets less than 125 feet shall not be permitted.
D.
Dead end or cul-de-sac streets: Dead end or cul-de-sac streets shall not be greater in length than 1,000 feet. They shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having a property line radius of at least 60 feet with an outside pavement radius of at least 45 feet.
E.
Reserve strips: Reserve strips controlling access to streets, alleys and public grounds shall not be permitted unless the control is placed in the hands of the city council under conditions approved by the planning commission.
F.
Street intersections: Street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles as possible. No street intersection shall be at an angle of less than 60 degrees unless required by unusual circumstances.
G.
Curb radii: Curb radii at street intersections shall be at least 25 feet. Where the angle of street intersection is less than 90 degrees, a radius of at least 30 feet shall be required.
H.
Easements: Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall be provided where necessary for utilities or drainage.
(Ord. of 6-16-2022(2))
Sec. 7. - Geometric standards and other requirements of streets.
Streets shall conform to the following minimum standards and requirements:
EXPAND
Major Streets Minor Streets
Minimum right-of-way width 100 ft. 60 ft.
Maximum street grade 6% 12%
Minimum street grade 0.5% 0.5%
Horizontal curvature (minimum radii) 800 ft. 100 ft.
Minimum tangent length between reverse curves 500 ft. 300 ft.
Minimum paving width between curbs 48 ft. 20 ft.
  ARTICLE V. - REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS IN SUBDIVISIONS

Sec. 1. - Preliminary plat approval prior to construction.
Construction of improvements shall not commence until the preliminary plat has been approved.
Sec. 2. - Improvements installed by subdivider.
modified
The subdivider shall be required to install or have installed, at its own expense, the following improvements:
(1)
Monuments: Two concrete monuments at least 36 inches in length and four inches square with a suitable center point at each street intersection on the right-of-way line, and iron pin monuments less than three-fourths inch in diameter and 24 inches long at all points on boundary lines of lots where there is a change in direction, and at all lot corners.
(2)
Streets: At least two inches of Georgia DOT specification hot plant mix asphalt on a base of at least six inches of stabilized gravel or eight inches of crushed limestone, or equivalent. No final grading or paving of the street, or construction or installation of utilities in the bed of a street shall be permitted until the grade has been officially established. No paving shall begin until underground utilities are installed and approved and the compacted base has been inspected and approved by the city engineer, which shall be a licensed professional engineer selected by the city.
(3)
Water mains: Where a public water main is within 1,500 feet of the subdivision at its nearest point, the subdivider shall at its sole expense connect with such water main. In all cases, where feasible, water systems shall be looped. In such cases, mains of at least six inches shall be required. The subdivider shall be responsible for the costs of all tap-ons and extensions to existing municipal facilities. The water systems connected to the public water main shall be approved by the official representative of the city prior to final plat approval, which official may be a licensed professional engineer selected by the city. Provided, however, as a temporary incentive to subdividers who have begun the subdivision process by submitting a sketch plan to the zoning administrator in accordance with Brooklet's subdivision ordinance (appendix "A" of the Brooklet Code) on or before September 30, 2022, but excluding any subdivider who has had a final plat approved under said subdivision ordinance, that enters into a contract with the city contractually agreeing to construct the streets within said subdivision without an inverted crown design, and to install curb and gutter along said streets, the city shall pay the costs of materials only for the extension of Brooklet's water system from an existing Brooklet public water main within 1,500 feet of the subdivision at its nearest point, to include the portion of the water system within the subdivision, which will ultimately become part of the city's water system (but not including any part that will be on an individual customer's property), to the extent that such project is reasonably economically feasible, considering the costs involved, potential revenues to the city, and monies available to fund such project. Where such criteria are met, the contract may provide that the city shall in fact pay for such materials.
(4)
Sanitary sewer: Wherever a public sanitary sewer is within 1,500 feet of the subdivision at its nearest point and connection by gravity flow is feasible, the subdivider shall connect with such sanitary sewer and provide connection for each lot. The size of the mains shall be at least eight inches. The subdivider shall be responsible for the costs of all taps, life [lift] pump stations, manholes, and extensions to existing municipal facilities. Where sanitary sewers are not available, an oxidation pond, septic tank, or other disposal device designed and installed according to standards of the appropriate governmental agency may be permitted.
(5)
Storm sewers: Storm sewers, catch basins, and culverts shall be provided in each subdivision, and shall be constructed of concrete. They shall be designed to carry not less than the storm water from a rainfall expected to occur once in ten years, with a runoff factor of 90 percent for pavements and buildings and a variable runoff factor depending on the topography of the ground for other areas. Storm drainage design shall be based upon Talbot's Formula. All storm sewage calculations shall be verified by a licensed professional engineer employed by the subdivider.
(6)
Curbs and gutters: Upon review, the planning commission may or may not require that curb and gutters be installed. If required, valley gutters may be permitted on grades over six percent.
(7)
Easements: Except where alleys are permitted for the purpose, the developer shall provide easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines for utilities; such easements shall be at least 20 feet wide.
(8)
Sidewalks: Pedestrian sidewalks of at least four feet in width. Pedestrian easements shall also be provided to grant access to recreation areas and/or school sites when, in the opinion of the planning commission, sufficient access is not provided by proposed streets. All sidewalks are to be a minimum of four feet in width, four inches in thickness of 2,500 p.s.i. concrete, with three-foot wide handicap ramps at intersections.
(9)
Street signs: There shall be placed at least one standard reflectorized street name sign at every intersection, and two diagonally opposed when deemed necessary by the planning commission.
(10)
Utility installation: Public utility installation costs for gas, telephone, electrical, cable television, and street lights shall be borne by the developer or utility company. Installation shall be on street rights-of-way, specified easements, or under streets prior to paving of streets. All utilities shall be underground.
(11)
Fire hydrants: One fire hydrant within 500 feet of each residence or other structure measured over streets, and at any other location designated by the city water department.
(12)
Variances or other improvements: Where the subdivider can show that a provision of these regulations would cause unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to, and where, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site, in opinion of the planning commission a departure may be made without destroying the intent of such provisions, the planning commission may authorize a variance. Likewise, because of particular conditions or circumstances relative to a particular subdivision, the planning commission may require the installation of sidewalks, streets, trees or other improvements not specifically set forth herein. Any variance thus authorized or additional improvements thus required are to be stated in writing in the minutes of the planning commission with the reasoning on which the variance or addition was justified set forth.
(13)
Street light requirement: Subdivider shall install street lights for the benefit of the subdivision in a manner sufficient to light the streets. Subdivider shall maintain the street lighting system. The subdivider shall submit/obtain the design approval of a licensed professional engineer as to the appropriate configuration of the lighting system. Provided, however, as a temporary incentive to subdividers, for any subdivision for which the final plat is approved by the planning commission of the City of Brooklet between the date of this ordinance and the earlier of June 30, 2024, or the repeal of this section, the subdivider shall not be required to maintain the street lighting system after the date on which the streets within said subdivision are accepted into the City of Brooklet as per the terms of the city's subdivision ordinance, article VII, section 5 of Appendix A—Subdivisions, and the city shall be responsible for maintaining said street lights along the streets accepted by the city as city streets. Provided further, if all of the streets within the applicable subdivision are not accepted by the city as city streets, this incentive shall apply only to that portion of the street lighting system located on the streets actually accepted by the city as city streets.
(14)
Curb and gutter: Concrete curbs and gutters shall be installed in accordance with approved plans and specifications by the city. Approval of the subdivider's plans by the city engineer is required. Curbs and gutters shall be designed to provide a ramp for bicycles and/or wheelchairs as required by state law and according to the ADA requirements. The standard curb and gutter shall be a minimum of 18 inches wide. Roll-over curb and gutter is permitted. Curbs and gutters shall have a minimum gutter thickness of six inches. All concrete used for curbs and gutters shall be prepared in accordance with applicable Georgia Department of Transportation State of Georgia Standard Specifications for Construction of Roads and bridges. Curbs and gutters shall be constructed with Portland cement concrete having a compressive strength of equal or greater to 3,000 p.s.i. Curbs and gutters shall be constructed of Class B concrete. Asphalt curbs and gutters will not be acceptable within publicly maintained right-of-way. Curbs and gutters shall be constructed prior to the construction of the pavement.
(Ord. of 9-23-2019(1); Ord. of 9-23-2019(3); Ord. of 8-8-2020(1); Ord. of 6-16-2022(3); Ord. of 7-6-2022(1); Ord. of 7-29-2022(1), Ord. of 7-29-2022(2))
ARTICLE VI. - FINAL PLAT

Sec. 1. - Procedure for final plat approval.
The subdivider shall submit to the zoning administrator five copies of the final plat.
Sec. 2. - Review of final plat.
The zoning administrator and building instructor [inspector] shall review the final plat for conformance with the tentatively approved preliminary plat and pursuant to the rules and regulations of this chapter [ordinance]. The final plat may be approved, disapproved, or approved subject to modifications.
Sec. 3. - Recording of the final plat.
Upon approval of the final plat, with the signature of the zoning administrator and clerk of the city thereon, the subdivider shall have the plat recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county. The subdivider shall have the responsibility for payment of the recording fees.
Sec. 4. - Final plat specifications.
The final plat shall conform to and meet the specifications of the preliminary plat and certain additional specifications as follows:
(1)
Exact location and description of monuments.
(2)
Exact location, widths, and names of all streets and alleys, within and immediately adjoining tangents.
(3)
Street centerlines showing angles of deflection, angles of intersection, radii, and lengths of tangents.
(4)
Lot line width dimensions to the nearest one-tenth, and bearings.
(5)
Lots numbered in numerical order and blocks lettered alphabetically.
(6)
Location and dimensions of all improvements constructed or installed.
(7)
A set of the recorded covenants or restrictions, if any, shall either be recorded on the final plat or on an attached document to the final plat.
ARTICLE VII. - ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES

Sec. 1. - Plat approval.
After this chapter [ordinance] shall have been put into effect, any subdivision that fails to meet the requirements of this chapter [ordinance] shall be disapproved by the planning commission.
Sec. 2. - Recording of plats.
No plat of a subdivision lying within the corporate limits of the city shall be recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county unless it has been given final approval by the building inspector and zoning administrator. The description by metes and bounds on the instruments of transfer or other document shall not exempt the transaction from such requirements. The recording of a plat of a subdivision that has not been given final approval by the building inspector and zoning administrator shall be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. of 9-20-2007(2), § 1)
Sec. 3. - Sale or transfer of lots.
The subdivider of any land within the city who transfers or sells or agrees to sell or negotiates to sell such land by reference to or exhibition of or by other use of a plat of subdivision of such land before such plat has been approved by the building inspector and zoning administrator and recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. of 9-20-2007(2), § 2)
Sec. 4. - Performance bond or bank letter of credit.
Prior to the final approval of the plat, the subdivider shall furnish to the city a performance bond to insure the completion of improvements as proposed. The bond shall be with a surety or in the form of a bank letter of credit, in an amount and containing terms and conditions satisfactory to the city. The city shall have the power to enforce such bond or letter of credit by all appropriate legal and equitable remedies. The form of the bond or letter of credit is subject to the approval of the city.
(Ord. of 9-20-2007(2), § 3)
Sec. 5. - Acceptance of streets and water systems by the city.
The city shall not accept title to or assume responsibility for maintaining any street or water system until at least one year after the street has been paved and until at least 50 percent of the lots have been built upon. The city shall not accept title to or assume responsibility for maintain[ing] any water system until such water system has been approved and certified by a licensed professional engineer selected by the city.
(Ord. of 8-20-2020(1))
Sec. 6. - Acceptance of sewage and water system.
The city shall not accept title to or assume responsibility for maintaining or supplying any water system or sewage system until appropriate certifications are received.
Sec. 7. - Building permit.
No building permit shall be issued and no building or other structure shall be erected on any lot within the city limits unless the street giving access to such lot is a public street. Any building erected in violation of these provisions is an unlawful structure and the building inspector, city attorney or other agent of the city shall enjoin such erection or cause the building to be vacated or removed.
