ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE

Sec. 6-1. - Property tax.
The city council may assess, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city that is subject to such taxation by the state and county. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, of providing governmental services, for the repayment of principal and interest in general obligations, and for any other public purposes as determined by the city council in its discretion.
Sec. 6-2. - Millage rate; due dates; payment methods.
The city council shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax, a due date, and a time period within which these taxes must be paid.
Sec. 6-3. - Occupation and business taxes.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to levy such occupation or business taxes as are not denied by law. Such taxes may be levied on both individuals and corporations who transact business in this city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to the extent such persons have a constitutionally sufficient nexus to this city to be so taxed. The city council may classify businesses, occupations, professions, or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful and may compel the payment of such taxes as provided in section 5-1 of this Charter.
Sec. 6-4. - Licenses; permits; fees.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to require any individuals or corporations who transact business in this city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to obtain a license or permit for such activity from the city and pay a reasonable fee for such license or permit where such activities are not now regulated by general law in such a way as to preclude city regulations. Such fees may reflect the total cost to the city of regulating the activity and, if unpaid, shall be collected as provided in section 5-1 of this Charter. The city council by ordinance may establish reasonable requirements for obtaining or keeping such licenses as the public health, safety, and welfare necessitates.
Sec. 6-5. - Franchises.
The city council shall have the power to grant franchises for the use of this city's streets and alleys, for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, cable television, gas companies, transportation companies, and other similar organizations. The city council shall determine the duration of terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration for such franchises; provided, however, that no franchise shall be granted unless the city receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The city council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the city clerk in a registration book kept by the clerk. The city council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
Sec. 6-6. - Service charges.
The city council, by ordinance, shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewers, sanitary and health services, or any other services provided or made available within and outside the corporate limits of the city for the total cost to the city of providing or making available such services. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in section 5-1 of this Charter.
Sec. 6-7. - Special assessments.
The city council, by ordinance, shall have the power to assess and collect the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutter, sewer, or other utility mains and appurtenances from the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as are reasonable. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in section 5-1 of this Charter.
Sec. 6-8. - Construction; other taxes.
The city council shall be empowered to levy any other tax allowed now or hereafter by law, and the specific mention of any right, power, or authority in this Charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of this city to govern its local affairs.
Sec. 6-9. - Collection of delinquent taxes and fees.
The city council may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the city under sections 5-1 through 5-6 of this Charter by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by law. This shall include providing for the dates when the taxes or fees are due; late penalties or interest; issuance and execution of fi.fa.s; creation and priority of liens; making delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes or fees imposed; revoking city licenses for failure to pay any city taxes or fees; and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions.
Sec. 6-10. - General obligation bonds.
The city council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized under this Charter or the laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issues by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Sec. 6-11. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the city council as state law now or hereafter provides. Such bonds are to be paid out of any revenue produced by the project, program, or venture for which they were issued.
Sec. 6-12. - Short-term loans.
The city may obtain short-term loans and must repay such loans no later than December 31 of each year, unless otherwise provided by law.
Sec. 6-13. - Fiscal year.
The city council shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. This fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department, agency, and activity of the city government.
Sec. 6-14. - Preparation of budgets.
The city council may provide an ordinance on detailed procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual operating budget, a capital improvement program, and a capital budget, including requirements as to the scope, content, and form of such budgets and programs.
Sec. 6-15. - Budget.
Prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor and council shall adopt a budget. The budget as finally adopted must provide for all expenditures required by state law or by other provisions of this Charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year. If the city council fails to adopt the budget by the beginning of the fiscal year, the amounts appropriated for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly until such time as the city council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Following adoption of the budget, the city council shall levy such taxes as are necessary. The taxes and the tax rates set shall be such that reasonable estimates of revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, fund balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual budget for defraying the expenses of the general government of this city.
Sec. 6-16. - Changes in appropriations.
The city council by resolution may amend the city's budget at any regular meeting or special or emergency meeting called for such purpose, to make any increase in appropriation, whether accomplished through a change in anticipated revenues in any fund or through a transfer of appropriations among departments.
(Ord. No. 2018-2, ยง 1, 1-18-2018)
Sec. 6-17. - Independent audits.
There shall be an annual independent audit of all city accounts, funds, and financial transactions by a certified public accountant selected by the city council. The audit shall be conducted according to generally accepted accounting principles. Any audit of any funds by the state or federal governments may be accepted as satisfying the requirement of this Charter. Copies of all audit reports shall be available at printing costs to the public.
Sec. 6-18. - Contracting procedures.
No contract with the city shall be binding on the city unless:
(1)
It is in writing; and
(2)
It is made or authorized by the city council and such approval is entered in the city council journal of proceedings.
Sec. 6-19. - Sale of city property.
(a)
The city council may sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the city for governmental or other purposes as now or hereafter provided by law.
(b)
The city council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon adoption of a resolution by the city council, by finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes, and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending, or widening any street, avenue, alley, or public place of the city a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the city council may authorize the mayor to execute and deliver in the name of the city a deed conveying said cut-off or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights-of-way of said street, avenue, alley, or public place when such swap is deemed to be in the best interest of the city. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
