ARTICLE IV. - ZONING DISTRICTS

Sec. 4-1. - Establishment of districts.
modified
In order that the purposes of this ordinance as defined in article 1[I] may be accomplished, there are hereby established within the City of Brooklet, Georgia, the zoning districts identified as follows:
Section 4-1.1. A-1 agricultural district. The purpose of these districts is to provide single-family residential areas within minimum lot sizes of three acres, said areas being protected from the depreciating effects of small lot development, and also permitting rural agricultural uses.
Section 4-1.2. R-1 single-family residential district. The purpose of this district is to provide single-family residential areas with minimum lot sizes of 22,000 square feet, said areas being protected from the depreciating effects of small lot development and excessive density and from the encroachment of those uses which are incompatible to a desirable residential environment. The building area shall not exceed 25 percent of the lot area.
Section 4-1.3. R-2 single-family residential district. The purpose of this district is to provide single-family residential areas with minimum lot sizes [of] 15,000 square feet, said areas being protected from the depreciating effects of small lot development and excessive density and from the encroachment of those uses which are incompatible to a desirable residential environment. The building area shall not exceed 25 percent of the lot area.
Section 4-1.4. R-3 multi-family residential district. The purpose of this district is to provide orderly development of high density residential areas for one[-family], two[-family] and multi-family dwellings, said areas being protected from the encroachment of those uses which are incompatible to a desirable residential environment. The minimum lot size shall be 10,000 square feet. The building area shall not exceed 30 percent of the lot area.
Section 4-1.5. R-4 manufactured home community district. The purpose of this manufactured home community district is to provide areas within the city exclusively for manufactured home residences and for buildings directly related to the operation of the manufactured home community. Manufactured home communities shall be a minimum of three acres with manufactured home spaces of at least 10,000 square feet each. See section 6-3.
Section 4-1.6. C-1 central business district. The purpose of this district shall be to enhance and protect shopping facilities in the central business district of the city.
Section 4-1.7. C-2 general commercial district. The purpose of the general commercial district is to provide for those business activities which are larger users of space than commercial uses serving the central commercial district and to provide for those business activities which cater to the needs of individual neighborhoods, and highway business areas.
Section 4-1.8. I-1 light industrial district. The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect areas for those industrial uses which do not create noise, odor, smoke, dust, and which do not possess other objectionable characteristics which might be detrimental to surrounding neighborhoods, or to the other uses permitted in the district.
Section 4-1.9. I-2 Heavy industrial district. The purpose of the heavy industrial district, is to provide a location for those industrial operations and processes which are not considered nuisances but which have objectionable characteristics such as noise, odor, smoke, or dust.
Section 4-1.10. F-H flood hazard district. The purpose of the flood hazard district is to identify areas of the city that have been defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development as being subject to periodic flooding and to limit development to uses that will be least damaged by flooding.
(Ord. of 12-16-2021(2))
Sec. 4-2. - Zoning map.
The boundaries of each district are shown on a map entitled "Official Zoning Map of Brooklet, Georgia," which is dated the date of the adoption of this ordinance, is certified by the mayor as the "Official Zoning Map of Brooklet, Georgia," is kept in the zoning administrator's office, where it is available for public inspection, and is incorporated herein by reference.
The original "Official Zoning Map of Brooklet, Georgia" shall be on file in the office of the zoning administrator at all times. Said map shall accurately show all map amendments made in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance, and the date when said amendments became effective. It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to insure that the "Official Zoning Map of Brooklet, Georgia" is displayed and available for public inspection and accurately shows all amendments approved by the city council.
Sec. 4-3. - Interpretation of zoning district boundaries.
When uncertainty exists with respect to the location of boundaries of any zoning district as shown on the "Official Zoning Map of Brooklet, Georgia", the following rules shall apply:
Section 4-3.1. Where district boundaries are depicted as approximately following the center-lines of streets or highways, centerlines of streams or drainage ways, street lines, or highway rights-of-way lines, such centerlines, street lines, or highway rights-of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
Section 4-3.2. Where district boundaries are so depicted that they approximately follow the lot lines, such lots shall be construed to be said boundaries.
Section 4-3.3. Where district boundaries are so depicted that they are approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways, or railroads, or rights-of-way of same, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the zoning map. If no distance is given, such dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on said zoning map.
Section 4-3.4. Where a district boundary line divides a lot in single ownership at the time of enactment of this ordinance, the district containing the larger portion of area may be extended to the remainder without recourse to amendment procedure; provided, however, that the property owner gives notice of said use to the designated official.
