ARTICLE VI. - BICYCLES

Sec. 17-317. - Method of parking.
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or against a building or at a curb, in such manner as to afford the least obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-59, § 17-191, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 17-318. - Operation on roadways and paths.
(a)
The operator of a bicycle, upon entering a bicycle lane or path, shall yield the right-of-way to all bicycles approaching upon the lane or path and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles and bicycles in the roadway.
(b)
Any bicycle being operated on a public roadway shall yield to the right following an audible signal when overtaken by another vehicle. The driver of a vehicle overtaking a bicycle proceeding in the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken bicycle.
(c)
No person shall ride or operate a bicycle upon a roadway adjacent to which or upon which bicycle lanes have been designated, except within this bicycle lane or except as otherwise permitted by the provisions of this chapter. No person shall ride or operate a bicycle upon a roadway adjacent to which there is a bicycle path which is less than 75 feet from the roadway and which is in a safe condition for bicycle riding.
(d)
When a roadway is determined to be unsafe for bicycling by the city, bicycle users may be restricted from the roadway by the erection of a sign prohibiting bicycle use and directing bicycle users to a suitable alternative route similar in directness and surface quality to the roadway.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-59, § 17-192, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 17-319. - Turning movements.
(a)
When completing a left turn on two-way roadways, bicyclists shall merge to the portion of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and shall negotiate the left turn so as to enter the intersecting roadway near the right side of the centerline, giving right-of-way to all vehicles proceeding through the intersection in the opposite direction.
(b)
When completing a right turn, motor vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to bicycles crossing the intersecting roadway or completing a right turn.
(c)
All vehicles or bicycles making turns at intersections shall not proceed into the intersection nor make this turn without first yielding the right-of-way to all bicycles or other vehicles within or approaching the intersection and shall proceed only when it is safe to do so.
(d)
A bicyclist may also negotiate a left turn by dismounting the bicycle and crossing as a pedestrian, leading the bicycle to the other side of the intersecting roadway, and hence to the other side of the traffic roadway. When the person dismounts from a bicycle, such person shall then obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(e)
When a bicycle "ride" control signal is shown, the bicyclist may proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal and while so proceeding across the roadway has the right-of-way over other vehicles. When a bicycle "wait" control signal is shown:
(1)
The bicyclist facing the signal shall not commence to cross the roadway until bicycle ride control signal is shown.
(2)
A bicyclist proceeding across the roadway when a wait signal is shown after the bicyclist has entered the roadway shall quickly proceed across the roadway and has the right-of-way for that purpose over other vehicles.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-59, § 17-193, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 17-320. - Acrobatic or fancy riding; racing.
No rider of any bicycle shall remove both hands from the handlebars, or feet from the pedals, or practice any acrobatic or fancy riding on any street. No person operating a bicycle upon a street shall participate in any race or speed or endurance contest with any other bicycle or vehicle, unless the street has been temporarily set aside for such purposes.
(Ord. No. O2013-01-59, § 17-194, 1-22-2013)
Sec. 17-321. - Bicycle riding on sidewalks.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle on a sidewalk.
(b)
Exception: Children 12 years of age or younger may ride a bicycle on a sidewalk, providing that the bicycle rider yield to pedestrians.
( Ord. No. 2016-05-01, § 1, 5-24-2016 )
Secs. 17-322—17-343. - Reserved.
