Chapter 18 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND EMERGENCY SERVICES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 18-1. - Emergency declared, mayor powers and area specified.
(a)
The city will from time to time in the future, in all probability, have within its corporate limits fire, flood, civil disturbances and riots; therefore, it is deemed in the best interests of the city to exercise certain emergency police powers necessary to and incidental to the maintenance of the safety, health and welfare of the citizens of the city.
(b)
These powers shall be placed in the hands of the chief executive of the city. These powers should be exercised only in the event of an emergency as herein contemplated and shall only be exercised for such periods of time as the actual emergency exists. Said powers shall only be invoked after a declaration and proclamation of an emergency.
(c)
In addition to any and all other powers, the mayor shall have further emergency powers as follows:
(1)
The mayor shall have the right to declare an emergency to exist when, in his opinion, one or more of the following conditions exist:
a.
That there is extreme likelihood of danger of destruction of life or property due to unusual conditions.
b.
Unusual or extreme weather conditions, making use of city streets or areas difficult or impossible.
c.
Civil unrest, commotion or uprising is imminent or exists.
d.
There is a stoppage or loss of electrical power affecting a major portion of the city.
(2)
After declaration of such emergency the mayor, as chief executive, shall have the right to exercise any or all of the following powers:
a.
The power to use employees of the city, to assist in the safety and preservation of life, limb and property of the citizenry of the city.
b.
The power to close streets and sidewalks and to delineate areas within the city wherein an emergency exists.
c.
The power to impose emergency curfew regulations.
d.
The power to close business establishments within the affected area.
e.
The power to close any and all municipally owned buildings and other facilities to the use of the general public.
f.
The power to do any and all acts necessary and incidental to the preservation of life, limb, and property of the citizenry of the city.
g.
No emergency power as set forth herein may be effective for more than 72 hours after the declaration of an emergency by the mayor. However, upon declaration of the existence of a second or further emergency, the emergency powers as set forth herein may be exercised during such further emergency period or periods but never for more than 72 hours in one declared emergency period.
h.
No emergency period shall extend beyond the next regular, special, or called meeting of the city council.
(3)
The declaration of an emergency as to a portion of the city shall specify with exactness the area in which the emergency is declared to exist.
(Code 1986, § 2-55; Ord. of 10-2-1967)
