PART I - CHARTER[1]
ORDINANCE NO. 894
AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND AND CODIFY PROVISIONS OF THE MUNICIPAL CHARTER OF THE CITY OF BRUNSWICK; TO CONTINUE IN EFFECT CURRENT PROVISIONS OF SAID CHARTER, AS AMENDED FROM TIME TO TIME, AFFECTING THE COMPOSITION AND FORM OF THE MUNICIPAL GOVERNING AUTHORITY, THE PROCEDURE FOR ELECTION OF THE MEMBERS THEREOF, AND THE CONTINUANCE IN OFFICE AND LIMITATION THEREON FOR SUCH MEMBERS; TO AMEND SAID CHARTER SO AS TO PROVIDE FOR A CITY MANAGER AND OTHER OFFICERS, TO PROVIDE FOR BOUNDARIES AND POWERS OF THE CITY, AND TO PROVIDE FOR FISCAL MANAGEMENT, ADMINISTRATION OF MUNICIPAL BUSINESS AND RELATED MATTERS; TO CONTINUE IN EFFECT THE PROVISIONS OF SAID CHARTER, AS AMENDED, PARTICULARLY AS AMENDED BY AN ACT APPROVED FEBRUARY 17, 1950, AUTHORIZING THE LEVY AND COLLECTION OF TAXES; TO REPEAL PROVISIONS OF SAID CHARTER WHICH HAVE BEEN SUPERSEDED BY GENERAL LAW, WHICH HAVE BECOME OBSOLETE OR WHICH ARE IN CONFLICT WITH THIS ORDINANCE; TO PROVIDE AN EFFECTIVE DATE; AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES.
THE COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF BRUNSWICK HEREBY ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION 1. It is the intent of this ordinance to continue in effect fundamental provisions of the municipal charter of the City of Brunswick concerning the governing authority and taxation, in conformity with Official Code of Georgia Annotated Sec. 36-35-6 [O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6], limiting the home rule powers of municipal corporations; to modernize the charter by amending it in other respects pursuant to the Municipal Home Rule Act of 1965, particularly Official Code of Georgia Annotated Sec. 36-35-3 [O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3]; to repeal charter provisions which have been superseded by general law, which have become obsolete or which are in conflict with this ordinance; and to codify the resulting charter.
SECTION 2. Those fundamental provisions of the current charter which shall continue in effect are identified hereinafter by parenthetical references following such provisions.
SECTION 3. Those provisions of the current charter which are not identified hereinafter as provisions which shall continue in effect are hereby stricken in their entirety, provided, however, that this repealer shall not operate to affect vested rights, title to real property, the closure of streets or the names of streets as heretofore designated by the commission.
SECTION 4. Reference is hereby made to Section 2 of an Act approved August 11, 1920 (1920 Ga. Laws, pp. 757, 760) which provides: "The offices of Mayor and Aldermen and all other officers of said city created by legislative enactment, except as hereinafter provided for, are hereby abolished, and all laws creating such offices and defining the duties and authority pertaining thereto are hereby repealed, except as hereinafter provided for." The commission hereby finds that the foregoing effectively repealed that provision of an Act approved November 12, 1889 (1889 Ga. Laws, pp. 1010, 1015) subsequently codified as Section 15 of the charter as set forth in the Brunswick City Code, 1952. The 1889 provision, therefore, is not carried forward as a limitation of office in the charter as hereinafter set forth.
SECTION 5. If any provision of this ordinance or of the charter as hereinafter set forth is held invalid or unconstitutional for any reason by any court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the remaining provisions of the ordinance or charter.
SECTION 6. This ordinance and the charter set forth hereinafter shall become effective on January 1, 1991.
SECTION 7. As of said effective date the municipal charter of the City of Brunswick shall be as set forth in the pages appended hereto.
Notice of intent published: September 15, 22, 29, 1990.
Read and adopted first time: September 19, 1990.
Read and adopted second time: October 3, 1990.
EXPAND
/s/ Homer Wilson
Mayor
  Attest:
EXPAND
/s/ Georgia E. Marion
Secretary of the Commission
of the City of Brunswick
  CHARTER OF THE CITY OF BRUNSWICK
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is Ordinance No. 894 and the Charter of the City of Brunswick both adopted on October 3, 1990, both effective January 1, 1991. Amendments to the original charter are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision derives from the original charter. Obviously misspelled words have been corrected without notation, and words added for clarity have been enclosed in brackets [ ]. A uniform system of capitalization has also been used.

ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION, POWERS, FORM OF GOVERNMENT

Section 1.10. - Name.
The City of Brunswick, heretofore incorporated by an Act of the General Assembly approved February 22, 1856, shall have perpetual succession as a municipal corporation of the State of Georgia.
Section 1.11. - Corporate boundaries.
The boundaries of the city shall be those existing on the effective date of this charter, with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by law. The boundaries of the city shall be shown or described at all times on a map, a written description or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of the clerk of the city.
Section 1.12. - Powers.
The city shall have all the powers of self-government which it is possible for a city to have under the present or future constitution and laws of the State of Georgia as fully as though they were specifically enumerated in this charter, and the same shall be carried into execution as provided by pertinent general law, by this charter or by ordinance, resolution or regulation adopted as provided by Official Code of Georgia Annotated Sec. 36-35-3(a) [O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3(a)].
Section 1.13. - Form of government.
The City of Brunswick shall be governed by a commission and a manager. (Enacted by 1920 Ga. Laws, pp. 757, 760.)
Section 1.14. - Parks and squares.
(a)
Except as authorized pursuant to the powers set forth in subsections (b), (c), and (d) hereinafter or by a previous amendment of the municipal charter of the City of Brunswick, said city shall not have the power or authority to convey, lease, sell, or alienate any of the parks or squares of said city for any use, public or private, and said parks and squares shall forever exist and be used for the benefit of the people for park purposes and for no other purposes; provided, however, that the City of Brunswick, acting by and through the commission of said city shall have the powers and authority set forth in subsections (b), (c), (d) hereinafter, notwithstanding any provision of this subsection or any other law, ordinance or principle of common law to the contrary.
(b)
The City of Brunswick, acting through the commission of said city, is hereby authorized to vacate, abandon, alienate, and sell or exchange for other real property all that portion of Blythe Square, or any part thereof, lying on the west side of Norwich Street, pursuant to Official Code of Georgia Annotated § 36-37-6.
(c)
The City of Brunswick, acting through the commission of said city, is hereby authorized to vacate and close such portion of Orange Park as the commission may deem appropriate, for use as right-of-way for "L" Street, and to dedicate such portion of Orange Park for use for street purposes.
(d)
The City of Brunswick, acting through the commission of said city, is hereby authorized to use such portion of the Mary L. Ross Waterfront Park as the commission shall deem appropriate as a public market and to permit therein the sale of agricultural produce and other goods and products for corporate or individual gain.
(Ord. No. 912, § 1, 7-21-1993)
ARTICLE II. - CITY COMMISSION

Section 2.10. - Commission; election at large.
Subject to the residence requirement set forth hereinafter, the members of the commission shall be elected at large, by all the electors voting in a municipal election, in the manner provided by this charter. (Construction of 1920 Ga. Laws, pp. 757, 761, as amended by 1927 Ga. Laws, pp. 929, 937.)
Section 2.11. - Division of city into wards.
For the purpose of elections to the commission the city is divided into two wards which shall be known as the "north ward" and "south ward," lying north and south, respectively, of a line running from the westerly terminus of "L" Street easterly to Stadium Street, thence along Stadium Street to "K" Street, thence along "K" Street to Glynn Avenue, thence southerly along Glynn Avenue to the Brunswick-St. Simons Causeway, thence easterly along the Causeway to the corporate limits of the city.
Section 2.12. - Commission; number; residence requirement.
The commission shall consist of five persons who shall have been citizens of said city for at least one year next preceding their election, two to be residents of the south ward, two from the north ward, and one from the city at large. Each commissioner must be at least twenty-five years of age. In the event the office of a commissioner shall become vacant, either by recall or for any other reason, then his successor for the unexpired term shall be a resident of the ward represented at the time of the election of the commissioner creating the vacancy. The term "resident" shall be held to mean a bona fide and continuous residence for a period of six months immediately preceding any election herein referred to. However, in the event of the removal of the residence of a member of the commission from one ward to another, the same shall not create a vacancy. (Enacted by 1920 Ga. Laws, pp. 757, 761, as amended by 1927 Ga. Laws, pp. 929, 937, and 1949 Ga. Laws, pp. 339, 345.)
Section 2.13. - Elections; date of regular elections.
All regular and special elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with general law. The date of all regular elections occurring before January 1, 1993, shall be as heretofore provided, and thereafter the date of such elections shall be as provided by general law.
Section 2.14. - Nomination of candidates.
Candidates for election to the commission shall be nominated by petition. No political party shall conduct primaries for the purpose of nominating candidates. (Authorized by O.C.G.A. § 21-3-95.)
Section 2.15. - Terms of office.
Except as otherwise provided by general law, the members of the commission shall serve for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. (In accord with O.C.G.A. §§ 21-3-61(a) and 21-3-63.)
Section 2.16. - Oath of office.
The oath of office shall be administered to newly elected members of the commission as follows: "I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully perform the duties of commissioner (or mayor) of the City of Brunswick, and that I will support and defend the city charter as well as the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America."
Section 2.17. - Filling of vacancies.
In the case of the death, resignation, removal from office, or vacation from office by removal from said city (and removal shall operate to create a vacancy just as if there should be a formal resignation) of any commissioner, the commission shall proceed to call an election to fill such vacancy. (Enacted by 1920 Ga. Laws, pp. 757, 777, as amended by O.C.G.A. §§ 21-3-14, 21-3-53.)
Section 2.18. - Mayor.
The commissioner elected from the city at large shall be the chairman of the commission and shall be designated as mayor, and shall have only such powers as are prescribed by the charter. The commissioner at large may succeed himself for one term but shall not be eligible to run for the office of commissioner at large until there has been a lapse of three (3) years from the end of the second term in office. However, nothing herein shall be construed to keep the said commissioner at large from running for the office of commissioner from the ward in which he is a resident immediately after serving as commissioner at large. (Enacted by 1963 Ga. Laws, p. 3249.)
Section 2.19. - Mayor; powers and duties.
The mayor shall have no more authority than any of the other commissioners, except that he shall act as chairman at all meetings of the commission, shall approve the minutes of such meetings, shall act as mayor of said city on all ceremonial occasions, and shall have such other authority and duties as hereinafter provided. He shall be ex officio a member of all boards of which the mayor of said city is now ex officio a member. (Enacted by 1920 Ga. Laws, pp. 757, 765.)
Section 2.20. - Mayor pro tem.
The commission shall elect a mayor pro tem at the first meeting in January of each year. During the absence or disability of the mayor for any cause, the mayor pro tem, or in his absence or disability any one of the commissioners designated by a majority of the commission, shall perform the duties of the office of mayor so long as such absence or disability shall continue.
Section 2.21. - Quorum, vacancies.
A majority of the commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. (Construction of 1920 Ga. Laws, p. 757; cf., 1989 Ga. Laws, pp. 1010, 1015.) In the event that for any cause there shall be a vacancy in the office of one or more commissioners, the commissioner or commissioners remaining in office shall perform all the duties and shall possess all the power and authority of the commission until the vacancy or vacancies shall be filled. (Enacted by 1920 Ga. Laws, pp. 757, 768.)
Section 2.22. - Compensation and expenses.
City commissioners shall receive compensation and expenses for their services as provided by ordinance.
ARTICLE III. - CITY MANAGER AND OTHER OFFICERS

Section 3.10. - City manager; appointment; qualifications; compensation.
The commission shall appoint a city manager to serve at will for an indefinite term and shall fix his compensation. The manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications, and he shall be the city's chief administrative officer.
Section 3.11. - Acting city manager.
By letter filed with the city clerk, the manager shall designate, subject to approval of the commission, a qualified city administrative officer to exercise the powers and perform the duties of manager during his temporary absence or disability. During such absence or disability, the commission may revoke such designation at any time and appoint another officer of the city to serve until the manager shall return or his disability shall cease.
Section 3.12. - City attorney.
The commission shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be deemed necessary, who shall serve at will for an indefinite term. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party, shall attend the meetings of the commission as directed and shall advise the commission and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs.
Section 3.13. - City clerk.
The commission shall appoint a city clerk who shall not be a member of the commission. The city clerk shall be custodian of the official city seal, shall maintain city commission records required by this charter and shall perform such other duties as may be required by the commission.
Section 3.14. - Municipal court.
The commission shall establish a municipal court by ordinance pursuant to Official Code of Georgia Annotated Sec. 36-32-1 [O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1], which shall be known as the Municipal Court of the City of Brunswick, and shall provide for the appointment of the judge or judges thereof.
ARTICLE IV. - COMMISSION MEETINGS AND PROCEDURE

Section 4.10. - Regular and special meetings.
The commission shall hold regular meetings at such times as prescribed by ordinance. Special meetings of the commission may be held on call of the mayor or two members of the commission.
Section 4.11. - Rules of procedure.
The commission shall adopt rules governing procedure and order of business consistent with the provisions of this charter and shall provide for keeping minutes of all its proceedings.
Section 4.12. - Action requiring an ordinance.
Acts of the commission which have the force and effect of law shall be enacted by ordinance.
Section 4.13. - Ordinance form; procedure.
(a)
No ordinance shall be effective unless a notice of intent to enact or adopt the ordinance has been published once during the calendar week preceding enactment or adoption thereof in the newspaper in which the city's legal advertising is published, and no ordinance shall be enacted or adopted except at a regular or recessed regular meeting of the city commission.
(b)
Every ordinance shall be in writing at the time of its adoption and shall be filed with the city clerk immediately upon adoption. No ordinance shall contain subject matter which is not expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be, "The commission of the City of Brunswick hereby ordains…."
Section 4.14. - Codes of technical regulations.
The commission may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally, provided that a copy of each adopted code of technical regulations as well as the adopting ordinance shall be filed with the city clerk pursuant to Section 4.13.
Section 4.15. - Authentication; recording; codification.
(a)
The city clerk shall authenticate by his signature all ordinances adopted by the commission and shall record them in a properly indexed book.
(b)
The commission shall provide for the codification of all the ordinances of a general and permanent nature, including only such codes of technical regulations as the commission may specify, together with this charter and such related laws as the commission may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as "The Code of the City of Brunswick, Georgia," and it shall be maintained continuously up to date.
ARTICLE V. - ADMINISTRATION

Section 5.10. - Authority of city manager.
The city manager shall have the following authority and duties:
(1)
He shall direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices and agencies of the city, except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law.
(2)
He shall appoint and, when he deems it necessary for the good of the city, suspend or remove all city employees and administrative officers he appoints, except as otherwise provided by law or by personnel regulations adopted pursuant to this charter. He may authorize any administrative officer who is subject to his direction and supervision to exercise these powers with respect to subordinates in that officer's department, office or agency.
(3)
He shall see that all laws, provisions of this charter and acts of the city commission subject to enforcement by him or by officers subject to his direction and supervision are faithfully executed.
(4)
He shall attend all commission meetings and shall have the right to take part in discussion, but he may not vote.
(5)
He shall prepare and submit the annual budget to the commission.
(6)
He shall submit to the commission and make available to the public a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the city as of the end of each fiscal year.
(7)
He shall make such other reports as the commission may require concerning the operations of city departments, offices and agencies subject to his direction and supervision.
(8)
He shall keep the commission fully advised as to the financial condition and future needs of the city and make such recommendations to the commission concerning the affairs of the city as he deems desirable.
(9)
He shall prepare and promulgate a position classification and pay plan, subject to approval of the commission. The plan may apply to all employees of the city and any of its agencies, departments, boards, commissions or authorities. When a pay plan has been adopted, the salary range applicable to any position shall not be increased or decreased except by amendment of the pay plan. For purposes of this subsection, the elected and some appointed city officials may not be deemed to be city employees.
(10)
He shall prepare and promulgate rules and regulations concerning (1) the method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment, (2) the administration of the position classification and pay plan, methods of promotion and application of service ratings thereto and transfer of employees within the classification plan, (3) hours of work, vacation, sick leave and other leaves of absence, overtime pay and the order and manner in which layoffs shall be effected, (4) such personnel hearings as due process may require and (5) any other personnel matters, as may be necessary or appropriate to provide for adequate and systematic handling of personnel affairs.
In addition to the foregoing, the city manager shall have such additional authority and duties as the commission may lawfully assign to him.
Section 5.11. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the commission shall establish by ordinance the departments and agencies needed for the proper administration of the affairs and government of the city.
(b)
There shall be a director of each department or agency who shall be its principal officer. Each director shall be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of his department or agency subject to the direction and supervision of the city manager.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their qualifications.
(d)
All directors under the supervision of the city manager shall be nominated by the city manager with confirmation of appointment by the commission. The city manager may suspend or remove any director under his supervision for cause, provided that the director may appeal to the commission.
Section 5.12. - Boards, committees and authorities.
(a)
The commission shall create such boards, committees and authorities to fulfill any investigative, advisory or administrative function which the commission deems necessary and shall establish the composition, duties and powers thereof by ordinance or resolution as may be appropriate.
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE

Section 6.10. - Taxation.
The commission of the City of Brunswick is hereby vested with full authority and power to levy and collect such taxes on the inhabitants of said city, and those who hold taxable property within the same, and those who transact or offer to transact business therein, as said city commission may deem expedient for the safety, benefit, convenience and advantage of said city. Besides real and personal property, the said city commission may tax capital invested in said city, stocks in money corporations, choses in action, incomes and commissions derived from the pursuit of any profession, faculty, trade or calling, dividends, banks, insurance, express and other like companies or their agencies, and upon all other property or sources of profit not expressly prohibited or exempted by the laws of the State or of the United States, thus to raise such sum of money as may be necessary for the safety, convenience, benefit and interest of said city, the maintaining [of] the municipal government and the payment of the debts thereof. (Enacted by 1950 Ga. Laws, pp. 2770, 2772.)
Section 6.11. - Construction; other taxes.
The commission shall be authorized to levy any other tax now or hereafter allowed by law, and the specific mention of any right, power or authority in this article shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of the city to govern its local affairs.
Section 6.12. - Fiscal year; budget procedure.
The commission shall adopt an ordinance or ordinances to establish a fiscal year for the operations of municipal government, to establish a procedure for the preparation, review and adoption of an annual budget, and to provide for an annual audit of the financial affairs and transactions of all funds and activities of the city for each fiscal year, in accordance with general state law.
Section 6.13. - Tax levies.
After adoption of the budget, the commission shall adopt an ordinance to levy such ad valorem taxes as are necessary to operate the city under a balanced budget; that is, the sum of estimated net revenues and appropriated fund balances shall be equal to appropriations.
Section 6.14. - Millage rate; due date; payment methods.
The commission shall establish a millage rate for ad valorem taxes, the due date and the date of delinquency. The commission may provide for the payment of such taxes by installments or in one lump sum and may authorize voluntary payment prior to the due date.
Section 6.15. - Changes in appropriations.
The commission shall be authorized to make changes in the appropriations contained in the current operations budget, provided that any additional appropriations may be made only from an existing unexpended surplus.
Section 6.16. - Centralized purchasing; procurement and contract procedure.
The commission shall establish by ordinance a system of centralized purchasing for the city and a procedure for procurement and for the solicitation and consummation of contracts with the city.
ARTICLE VII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 7.10. - Bonds of officials.
City officers and employees, both elective and appointive, shall execute such surety or fidelity bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the commission shall from time to time require by ordinance or as may be provided by general law.
Section 7.11. - Prior ordinances.
All ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this charter are hereby declared valid and of full force and effect until amended or repealed by the commission.
Section 7.12. - Existing personnel and officers.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter or by appropriate action of the commission, all personnel and officers of the city and their rights, privileges and powers shall continue beyond the time this charter takes effect.
Section 7.13. - Pending matters.
Pending actions, orders, contracts and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue, and any such ongoing work or cases shall be completed by such city agencies, personnel or offices as may be provided by the city commission.
Section 7.14. - Severability.
If any provision of this charter is held invalid or unconstitutional for any reason by any court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the remaining provisions of this charter.
Section 7.15. - Effective date.
This charter shall become effective on January 1, 1991.
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ordinance
Number Adoption
Date Section Disposition
894 10- 3-1990 1—7 1.10—7.15
912  7-21-1993 1 1.14
