ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-51. - Personnel rules, regulations.
The city manager is hereby authorized to promulgate and establish rules and regulations for the administration of the municipal personnel system, subject to approval of such rules and regulations by the city commission. All such rules and regulations shall be maintained on file in the office of the personnel director of the city.
(Ord. No. 786, § 1, 9-1-1982)
Sec. 2-52. - Federal old age and survivors insurance.
(a)
It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to extend at the earliest date possible under the agreement entered into by the state and the federal government, to the employees and officials thereof, and its instrumentalities, not excluded by law or by this section, the benefits of the system of old age and survivors insurance as authorized by the federal social security act, the state enabling act, and amendments thereto. In pursuance of such policy, and for that purpose, the city shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(b)
The mayor of the city is hereby authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia and officials as provided for in subsection (a) to include any employees that are in positions covered by a public retirement system, in the manner by law.
(c)
Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the purpose provided for in subsection (a) are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state agency.
(d)
There shall be appropriated from general funds such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal law or regulations for employer's contributions, administrative expenses, and a guaranty fund to assure that the state will not incur any debt or loss as a result of the agreement referred to in subsection (b). Such funds shall be paid over to the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia in accordance with regulations established by that agency.
(e)
The city shall keep such records and make such reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(f)
There is hereby excluded from this section any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position, or any employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Ord. No. 396, 3-27-1957; Ord. No. 403, 9-4-1957; Ord. No. 436, 7-15-1959; Ord. No. 448, § 6, 11-2-1960)
State Law reference— Social security coverage for employees of political subdivisions of the state, O.C.G.A. 47-18-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-53. - Personnel background checks.
(a)
Effective January 1, 2009, all applicants for employment with the government of the City of Brunswick shall consent in writing to a state and national records background check and shall provide fingerprints in such form and of such quality as shall be acceptable for submission to the Georgia Crime Information Center and the National Crime Information Center.
(b)
Effective January 1, 2009, current employees of the government of the City of Brunswick whose job duties bring them into regular contact with children under the age of 18, including employees involved in after school care as well as those who staff recreational facilities attended by children under the age of 18, shall consent in writing to a state and national criminal records background check and shall provide fingerprints in such form and of such quality as shall be acceptable for submission to the Georgia Crime Information Center and the National Crime Information Center.
(c)
Effective January 1, 2009, current employees of the government of the City of Brunswick whose job duties bring them into regular contact with persons over the age of 65, including, but not limited to, those who staff recreational facilities attended by persons over the age of 65, shall consent in writing to a state and national criminal records background check and shall provide fingerprints in such form and of such quality as shall be acceptable for submission to the Georgia Crime Information Center and the National Crime Information Center.
(d)
Effective January 1, 2009, current employees of the government of the City of Brunswick whose job duties bring them into regular contact with persons who are considered disabled or handicapped according to State of Georgia law, shall consent in writing to a state and national criminal records background check and shall provide fingerprints in such form and of such quality as shall be acceptable for submission to the Georgia Crime Information Center and the National Crime Information Center.
(e)
Effective January 1, 2009, current employees of the government of the City of Brunswick whose job duties involve them entering and/or performing work on the residences, businesses, and other real property of the citizens of the City of Brunswick, shall consent in writing to a state and national criminal records background check and shall provide fingerprints in such form and of such quality as shall be acceptable for submission to the Georgia Crime Information Center and the National Crime Information Center.
(Ord. No. 1008, § 1, 12-17-2008)
Secs. 2-54—2-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CITY MANAGER

Secs. 2-71—2-95. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CITY CLERK

Sec. 2-96. - Duties generally.
The city clerk shall issue all executions, summonses, notices, subpoenas and processes that may be necessary in the enforcement of the rules, regulations and ordinances of the commission.
(Code 1953, § 2.8; Ord. No. 413, 12-4-1957)
Sec. 2-97. - Attend commission meetings, record and publish proceedings.
The city clerk shall attend all meetings of the city commission, shall record regularly and accurately all proceedings of the commission, and shall prepare for publication in the official newspaper or for posting in some conspicuous place, a correct report of the proceedings of each such meeting.
(Code 1953, § 2.10)
Sec. 2-98. - Attest deeds, etc.; keep public records, books, etc.
All deeds, leases and other written contracts made by the city to and with others, and by others to and with the city, shall be attested by the city clerk officially. He shall be the keeper of the public seal of the city, and the custodian of all the records and other books and papers belonging to the city; he shall be responsible for the safekeeping and shall turn over all books, papers and other property of the city in his hands, to his successor in office.
(Code 1953, § 2.11)
Secs. 2-99—2-115. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - CITY ATTORNEY

Secs. 2-116—2-135. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - DIRECTOR OF FINANCE

Sec. 2-136. - Department created, head designated.
There is hereby created the department of finance, the head of which shall be designated director of finance. He shall be appointed by the city manager, subject to confirmation by the city commission.
(Ord. No. 412, § 2, 12-4-1957)
Sec. 2-137. - Bond.
The director of finance shall give good and sufficient bond in such sum as fixed and approved by the city commission, conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties.
(Ord. No. 412, § 3, 12-4-1957)
Sec. 2-138. - Powers and duties.
The director of finance shall have charge of the administration of the financial affairs of the city, and to that end shall have authority, and shall be required to:
(1)
Maintain and supervise a general accounting system for the city government and each of its offices, departments and agencies; keep books for, and exercise financial budgetary control over, each office, department and agency; keep separate accounts for each item of appropriation contained in the city budget.
(2)
Submit to the city commission through the city manager a monthly statement of all receipts and disbursements in such detail as will show the exact financial condition of the city.
(3)
Supervise and be responsible for the assessment of all property within the corporate limits of the city for taxation; make all special assessments for the city government; prepare tax maps; and give such notice of taxes and special assessments as may be required by law.
(4)
Collect all taxes, special assessments, license fees, service charges, utility fees, and other fees and revenues of the city for which collection the city is responsible. Receive all moneys receivable by the city from the county, state and federal government, or from any court, or from any office, department or agency of the city, or from any other source not otherwise provided for.
(5)
Have custody of all public funds belonging to or under the control of the city or any office, department or agency of the city government, and deposit all funds coming into his hands in such depositories as may be designated by resolution of the city commission.
(6)
Have custody of all investments and invested funds of the city government, or in possession of such government in a fiduciary capacity and have the safe-keeping of all bonds and notes of the city, and of the receipt and delivery of city bonds and notes for transfer, registration, exchange or payment.
(7)
Keep the city manager advised on the financial condition of the city.
(8)
Upon approval of the city manager, make expenditures within the appropriations approved by the city commission.
(9)
Make interim and annual financial reports.
(10)
Inspect and audit any accounts or records of financial transactions which may be maintained by any office, department or agency of the city government, apart from or subsidiary to the accounts kept in his office.
(Ord. No. 412, § 4, 12-4-1957)
Sec. 2-139. - Vest with authority of treasurer.
The director of finance is hereby vested with all of the powers, duties, responsibilities and authority of the former city treasurer, as provided by the charter, laws and ordinances of or applicable to the city.
(Ord. No. 412, § 5, 12-4-1957)
Secs. 2-140—2-160. - Reserved.
