ARTICLE IV. - JURISDICTION, ENFORCEMENT, AND LEGAL STATUS

Section 400. - Platting Authority.
From and after the passage of this Ordinance, the Planning Commission shall be the official platting authority, and no plat of a land subdivision within the City shall be entitled to record in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Glynn County unless it shall have the final approval of the Planning Commission inscribed thereon. The filing or recording of a plat of a subdivision without the final approval of the Planning Commission, as required by this Ordinance, is declared to be a misdemeanor and is subject to the penalties as provided by law.
(Ord. No. 915, ยง 1, 1-19-1994; Ord. No. 1055, ยง 4, 3-21-2018)
Section 401. - Use of Plat.
The transfer of, sale of, agreement to sell, or negotiation to sell land by reference to or exhibition of, or other use of a plat of a subdivision that has not been given final approval by the Planning Commission and duly recorded in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Glynn County is declared to be a misdemeanor and may be enjoined or invalidated by appropriate action. In addition, such illegal use of a plat is subject to the penalties for a misdemeanor, as provided by law, for each lot or parcel so transferred, sold, or agreed to be sold.
The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer, or other document used in the process of selling or transfer, shall not exempt the transaction from such penalties, as stated above.
Section 402. - Opening and Improving Roads.
The City Commission or other public authority shall not accept, lay out, open, improve, grade, pave, or light any road or lay or authorize the laying of any utility lines in any road within the City which had not attained the legal status of a public road prior to the effective date of this Ordinance, unless such road corresponds to a road location shown on an approved subdivision plat or on the official Major Thoroughfare Plan adopted by the Planning Commission, provided that the City Commission may locate and construct, or may accept and improve any road not so platted if it first submits such proposed action to the Planning Commission for its review and recommendation.
Section 403. - Erection of Buildings.
No building permit shall be issued and no building shall be erected on any lot in the City unless the road giving access thereto has been designed and approved in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance, or unless such road had otherwise attained the legal status of a public road prior to the effective date of this Ordinance, or unless the City Commission constructs or accepts such road after review and recommendation by the Planning Commission, as provided in Section 402.
Any building erected in violation of this Section shall be deemed an unlawful structure and the City Building Official may bring appropriate action to enjoin such erection or cause it to be vacated or removed.
Section 404. - More Restrictive Standards Govern.
Whenever the regulations of this Ordinance require more restrictive standards than are required in or under any other statutes or private deed restrictions, the requirements of this Ordinance shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other statute require more restrictive standards than are required by this Ordinance, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
