ARTICLE VII. - FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE

Section 700. - Final Plat Application.
After the preliminary plat of a proposed subdivision has been given tentative approval, and within one (1) year from the date such tentative approval, the subdivider may submit to the Planning Commission a final plat application, the final plat application shall include the following:
(A)
A letter requesting review and approval of a final plat and giving the name and address of a person to whom the notice of the hearing by the Planning Commission on the final plat shall be sent;
(B)
Seven (7) copies of the final plat, including the original tracing and at least two (2) reproducible copies, along with other documents and supporting materials, as specified in Section 701;
(C)
An administrative fee of twenty-five ($25.00) dollars, payable to the Planning Commission;
(D)
Exact boundary lines of the tract, determined by field survey, giving distances to the nearest one-hundredth (100th) foot and bearings to the nearest minute, which shall be balanced and closed with an error of closure not to exceed one to five thousand (1 to 5,000);
(E)
Exact location, pavement width, right-of-way widths, and names of all roads within an immediately adjoining tract;
(F)
Road centerlines showing all angles of deflection, angles of intersection, radii, and lengths of tangents;
(G)
Exact locations, dimensions, and purposes of any easements and other areas to be reserved or dedicated for public use;
(H)
All lot lines with dimensions to the nearest one-hundredth (100th) foot and bearings to the nearest minute; and
(I)
Accurate location and description of monuments and markers.
(Ord. No. 1055, § 4, 3-21-2018)
Section 701. - Final Plat Specifications.
The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn in permanent ink on an acceptable grade of tracing cloth or drafting film. The scale of the drawing shall not be smaller than one hundred feet to one inch (100' - 1"). The sheet size shall be either eighteen inches by twenty-four inches (18" × 24") or twenty-four inches by thirty-six inches (24" × 36"). If a complete plat cannot be shown on a single sheet of either of these sizes, it may be shown on more than one (1) sheet, provided an index map is included on a separate sheet and all sheets are of the same size. The final plat should follow the suggested format of the Planning Commission, (See Appendix C.)
701.1 Final Plat Data. Information contained on the final plat shall conform to and meet the specifications for the preliminary plat and include the following additional information:
(A)
Revised Identification and Orientation Data, Neighborhood Data, and Site Data, as required by the Planning Commission in granting tentative approval of the preliminary plat;
(B)
Exact bearings and distances to the nearest existing public road lines, bench marks, permanent monuments or other satisfactory control points;
(C)
Municipal boundary lines tied to the lines of the subdivision when such lines traverse or are reasonably close to the subdivision.
701.2 Supporting Documents and Materials. The following documents and materials shall be submitted with the final plat application as supporting information:
(A)
Final detailed plans and specifications for all improvements shown on the preliminary plat;
(B)
A complete revised copy of the restrictions of all types which will run with the land and become covenants in the deeds to lots shown on the final plat;
(C)
Final detailed plans and specifications for the system of sanitary sewage disposal and water supply; and
(D)
A copy of an ordinance adopted by the City Commission accepting the streets, improvements, easements, and any other property to be dedicated by the subdivider for public use, subject to the final approval of the Planning Commission and the proper recording of the deeds; or, in lieu thereof, a letter from the City Commission certifying that an adequate performance guarantee has been posted to assure the completion of all required improvements in accordance with the standards set forth in these regulations.
701.3 Certifications. The following certifications shall be inscribed on all reproducible copies of the final plat:
(A)
Certification by a registered engineer and/or land surveyor that the final plat is true and correct and was prepared from an actual survey under his supervision; and further that all monuments shown actually exist or are marked as "Future" and their location, size, type, and material are correctly shown, and further that all engineering requirements of this Ordinance have been fully complied with;
(B)
Certification by the owner setting forth the description of the areas and improvements to be dedicated to the public and the extent of the title to be dedicated;
(C)
Certification by the County Health Department and the City Engineer that the water supply system and sewage disposal system have been properly installed and approved; or certification by the City Manager that an adequate performance guarantee has been posted to insure the eventual installation and construction of all required water and sewer improvements at the standards required;
(D)
Certification by the City Engineer that all road and drainage improvements required by this Ordinance have been properly installed and constructed in accordance with the required standards; or certification by the City Manager that an adequate performance guarantee has been posted to insure the eventual installation and construction of all required road and drainage improvements at the standards required.
Section 702. - Performance Guarantee.
If all improvements as required by the Planning Commission in granting tentative approval of the preliminary plat are not properly installed and constructed in accordance with the required standards prior to the submission of a final plat application, the subdivider shall file with the City Manager an acceptable performance guarantee to insure future installation and construction as required.
The performance guarantee must be approved by the City Commission and City Attorney, and must include a specific, reasonable and satisfactory date for the completion of the necessary improvements. In no case shall the performance guarantee be valid for more than two (2) years.
702.1 Return of Guarantee. When the improvements have been completed and approved for conformity with these regulations the guarantee shall be released and returned. When any portion of the required improvements has been completed and approved a portion of the guarantee commensurate with the cost of these completed improvements may be released and returned.
702.2 Default of Guarantee. In the event the subdivider fails to install or construct the required improvements during the specific time allotted and in conformity with these regulations, the performance guarantee is forfeited to the City of Brunswick to be used for the completion of the improvements.
Section 703. - Final Plat Submission.
Final plats of subdivisions shall be reviewed at regular meetings of the Planning Commission. For consideration at a regular meeting of the Planning Commission, a complete final plat application must be submitted to the Planning Director at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of that meeting.
Section 704. - Final Plat Review.
Upon submittal of a completed final plat application, the Planning Director shall check the material for conformance with the tentatively approved preliminary plat and with the rules and regulations of this Ordinance. The Planning Director shall then report his findings and recommendations to the Planning Commission which shall afford a public hearing on the final plat.
Not less than five (5) days prior to the date of the public hearing the Planning Director shall send, by registered or certified mail, a notice of the time and place of the hearing to the person designated in the letter requesting review of the final plat.
Section 705. - Final Plat Decision.
Within thirty (30) days after the submittal of a complete final plat application, and after the required hearing thereon, the Planning Commission shall either approve or disapprove the final plat. A notation of the action, including a statement of the reasons for disapproval if such is the case, shall be made on the original tracing and the two (2) reproducible copies of the final plat. If the plat is approved, the inscription shall read as indicated in Section 706 below.
If the final plat is disapproved, one of the copies bearing the notation of the Planning Commission action shall be returned to the subdivider, another copy shall be filed with the City Manager, and another shall be retained by the Planning Commission for its files.
If the Planning Commission takes no action on the final plat application within thirty (30) days after the date of its submittal, the final plat shall be considered approved as submitted and a Certificate of Approval shall be issued on demand. However, the subdivider may waive this requirement and consent to an extension of time in writing.
Section 706. - Certificate of Final Approval.
If the Planning Commission approves the final plat, an inscription shall be made on each copy of the final plat as follows:
Pursuant to the Subdivision Regulations of the City of Brunswick, Glynn County, Georgia, all requirements having been fulfilled, this Final Plat was given Approval by the City of Brunswick Planning and Appeals Commission on ________, 20___.
EXPAND
______________
(Date) _____
Chairman, Brunswick Planning and Appeals
Commission
  (Ord. No. 1055, § 4, 3-21-2018)
Section 707. - Final Plat Recording.
Upon approval of a final plat, and within thirty (30) days, the Planning Director shall have the original tracing of the final plat recorded in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Glynn County, Georgia. The subdivider shall be responsible for payment of the fee, as provided in Section 700.3.
A reproducible linen or film copy of the approved final plat, along with all certificates endorsed thereon, shall be retained for the records of the Planning Commission. In addition, the Planning Commission shall maintain an accurate public record of all other plans, documents and materials submitted to it in conjunction with a subdivision plat application, as well as the findings, decisions, and recommendations thereon.
Another reproducible linen or film copy of the approved final plat, along with all certificates endorsed thereon, shall be filed with the City Manager.
