ARTICLE XXI. - CR COMMERCIAL RECREATION DISTRICT

Sec. 23-21-1. - Intent of district.
It is the intent of this article that the CR zoning district be developed and reserved for commercial and recreational purposes. The regulations which apply within this district are designed to encourage the formation and continuance of recreational facilities in Brunswick, to enact criteria under which such facilities may be operated for pecuniary gain in Brunswick and to discourage encroachment by any other land use which might adversely affect or destroy the recreational character of this district.
(Ord. No. 1006, ยง 1, 11-19-2008)
Sec. 23-21-2. - Permitted uses.
The following uses shall be permitted in any CR zoning district:
(a)
Watchman or caretaker's one-family dwelling, provided that such dwelling occupies a minimum lot area of 6,000 square feet, is located on the premises of a permitted use and the head of the household is employed by the recreational facility as a watchman or caretaker, and accessory uses for such dwelling in compliance with subsection 23-3-17(a).
(b)
Commercial riding stable, zoo, or similar commercial institution for the keeping of animals, provided that such use is located in a zoning lot of not less than two acres and no building or enclosure for animals is located closer than 100 feet from any property line.
(c)
Community fairground, circus, carnival, racetrack, or place of large public assembly, provided that such use is located on a site of not less than five acres.
(d)
Travel trailer park and/or campground, subject to the following provisions:
(1)
Such facility shall be reserved for the exclusive use of recreational type vehicles and/or tents.
(2)
No tenant shall be permitted to remain in the facility for more than 30 consecutive days.
(3)
Plans for the facility shall be submitted to the city engineer for review and approval.
(4)
Written approval for the sanitation provisions of the facility shall be obtained from the Glynn County Board of Health, a copy of which shall be retained in the files of the building official.
(e)
Restaurant or dining area for the preparation and serving of food and drink and facilities for the purchase of normal household supplies not including furniture and appliances, provided that not more than ten percent of the area is utilized for such activities.
(f)
Other land uses not specified elsewhere in this chapter which are deemed by the commission to be in accord with the intent of the CR district.
(Ord. No. 1006, ยง 1, 11-19-2008)
Sec. 23-21-3. - Other requirements.
Unless otherwise specified elsewhere in this chapter, uses permitted in CR zoning districts shall be required to conform to the following standards:
(a)
Minimum lot area: One acre.
(b)
Minimum lot width: 100 feet.
(c)
Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
(d)
Minimum side yard: None, except that where the property abuts a residential area, 30 feet shall be required.
(e)
Minimum rear yard: None, except that where the property abuts a residential area, 30 feet shall be required.
(f)
Maximum building height: 60 feet, subject to the approval of the fire chief.
(Ord. No. 1006, ยง 1, 11-19-2008)
