ARTICLE IV. - TAX COMMISSIONER[5]
An Act to abolish the offices of tax-receiver and tax-collector of Bryan County, Georgia; to create the office of tax commissioner of Bryan County; defining the qualifications and duties and fixing the compensation and term of office of said tax commissioner; to provide that the laws of force as to tax-receiver and tax-collector, when the provisions of this Act become effective, shall be of full force and effect, as to the tax commissioner of Bryan County, in so far as the same are applicable and not herein and hereby abolished; to provide that tax fi. fas. issued by the tax-collector, and remaining unpaid when this Act takes effect, shall continue of full force and be collected by the said tax commissioner, as could otherwise have been collected by the tax-collector; to provide that all fees, commissions, and other costs and compensations formerly paid to or collected by either the tax-receiver or the tax-collector shall, after this Act becomes effective, be collected by said tax commissioner of Bryan County, Georgia, and by such officer paid into the county treasury of said county; to provide for the payment of the necessary expense of said office of said tax commissioner; to provide for the election of said tax commissioner and the method filling vacancies in said office; to provide for the character and amount of the bond required and the taking of the oath of office by said tax commissioner; to provide that said tax commissioner shall, as often as called upon to do so, furnish an itemized statement under oath of all fees, commissions, costs, or other money received and collected for and on account of said County of Bryan, to the Board of Commissioners of said County, and, even though unrequested to do so, said tax commissioner shall furnish said Board of Commissioners one such statement during each calendar year; and to do and perform all other such acts and things as may be necessary for putting into effect the provisions of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, as contained in article eleven (11), section three (3), paragraph one (1) of said Constitution; and to authorize and provide for the levy and collection of a tax to pay said tax commissioner a salary of $1,500.00 per annum, payable in monthly instalments of $125.00 per month, and for the stationery, stamps, and other office supplies, equipment, and requirements incident to said office; and to repeal all laws and parts of laws in conflict with the provisions of this Act; and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia:

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 205), page 592. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended sections. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, numbering and capitalization has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets, except that catchlines have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 1. - Office created.
That in accordance with, and pursuant to, the authority contained and provided in an amendment to the Constitution of the State of Georgia, approved August 18th, 1924, and ratified as a constitutional amendment, in article eleven (11), section three (3) and paragraph one (1) of said Constitution the offices of tax-receiver and tax-collector of Bryan County be and the same are hereby abolished, the duties of said offices are hereby consolidated into one office, which shall be filled and placed under the control of one official, whose office shall be designated and known as that of tax commissioner of Bryan County, which office is hereby created and established in lieu of the abolished offices of tax-receiver and tax-collector, and the rights, powers, duties, responsibilities and liabilities of said tax commissioner shall be the same as are now, or may hereafter, become inherent to said offices of tax-receiver and tax-collector in so far as the same apply to the office of said tax commissioner and not specifically hereinafter otherwise provided and excepted.
Sec. 2. - Effective date.
That the provisions of this Act shall not become effective until the end of the current terms of office of the present tax-receiver and tax-collector of said County of Bryan.
Sec. 3. - Election.
That said tax commissioner of Bryan County shall be voted for and elected at the same time, and under the same general provisions of law, as other county officers are now elected, at the next general election in the year of 1936, and that said tax commissioner shall enter upon a discharge of the duties of said office on January 1st, 1937, and the term of office shall be for a period of four (4) years. And in the event of a vacancy occurring in said office, for any cause, such vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as vacancies are now filled with respect to other county offices in the State of Georgia.
Sec. 4. - Oath and bond.
Before entering upon the duties of said tax commissioner of Bryan County, Georgia, said officer shall take and subscribe the oath now prescribed by law for tax-receivers and tax-collectors in Georgia, and shall give bond, with some reputable indemnity bonding company, with an office and agent, and doing business in the State of Georgia, in an amount to be fixed and approved by the Board of Commissioners of said County of Bryan; but that in no event shall the amount of said bond be for an amount less than ten thousand ($10,000.00) dollars; the costs and premiums of which shall be paid by the said Board of Commissioners of said county from general funds for such purposes, and in any and all events said bond shall be approved by the Board of Commissioners of Bryan County, Georgia, and made payable to the Governor of Georgia or his successors in office.
Sec. 5. - Compensation.
The tax commissioner shall receive an annual base salary of 145 percent of those amounts set as a minimum salary for tax commissioners of counties with similar populations by paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of Code Section 48-5-183 of the O.C.G.A., as now or hereafter amended [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-183(b)(1)]. In addition to said annual base salary, the tax commissioner shall also be entitled to and receive all cost-of-living raises provided in paragraph (2) of subsection (b) [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-183(b)(2)] and all longevity increases provided in subsection (d) of Code Section 48-5-183 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-183(d)], as now or hereafter amended. Further, the tax commissioner shall be entitled to any other additional salary due him or her under Code Section 48-5-137 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-137], as now or hereafter amended. For the purpose of computing the tax commissioner's salary, all cost-of-living raises and longevity increases shall be computed by adding the appropriate amounts to or applying the appropriate multipliers to the annual base salary and any additional salary provided for in this section.
(1951 Ga. Laws (Act No. 75), page 2277, § 1; 1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 239), page 2910, § 1; 1968 Ga. Laws (Act No. 822), page 2549, § 1; 1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1293), page 3358, § 1; 1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1164), page 3216, § 1; 1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 252), page 3874, § 1; 1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 347), page 3874, § 1; 1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 537), page 3540, § 1; 1997 Ga. Laws (Act No. 114), page 3798, § 1)
Sec. 6. - Funding.
The Board of Commissioners of Bryan County, Georgia, be and they are hereby authorized and empowered to levy and collect a tax sufficient to pay the salary of said tax commissioner, provide him with an adequate office in said county, provide him with fuel, stationery, stamps, and lights, and to provide any and all other reasonable equipment, fixtures, and office supplies incident to a proper conduct of the affairs of said office of tax commissioner.
Sec. 7. - Prior taxes.
All taxes due and payable at the time the provisions of this Act shall become effective, and that all tax fi. fas. theretofore issued by the tax-collector of Bryan County, shall have full force and effect and shall be collectible as issued.
Sec. 8. - Fees, commissions, etc.
All fees, commissions, costs, and all other compensations allowed to the tax-receiver and tax-collector of Bryan County, Georgia, at the time this Act becomes effective, or that might legally be allowed to such officers thereafter were it not for the provisions of this Act, shall be collected by such tax commissioner and by such officer paid into the treasury of Bryan County, Georgia.
Sec. 9. - Duties.
Said tax commissioner shall perform each, every, and all the duties now required of the offices of tax-receiver and tax-collector of Bryan County, Georgia, in the manner prescribed by law, shall be subject to all the requirements, pains, and penalties, and have all the rights, powers, and privileges of said two offices and officers, except as to compensation, as herein provided.
Sec. 10. - Qualifications.
Said tax commissioner shall be and he is required hereby to be a citizen and qualified voter of said County of Bryan.
Sec. 11. - Reports.
Said tax commissioner of Bryan County be and is hereby required to make such reports to the State of Georgia, or the authorities thereof, as are now required or may hereafter be required of tax-receivers and tax-collectors of this State.
Sec. 12. - Other duties.
Said tax commissioner shall perform all the duties and be subject to all of the penalties heretofore applicable to tax-collectors and tax-receivers of Bryan County, Georgia, and shall have the authority to transact any and all business heretofore transacted by either or both of such officers in regard to closing matters left unfinished at the expiration of the present terms of office of the tax-receiver and the tax-collector of Bryan County, Georgia, except that said tax-collector of Bryan County, Georgia, at the time of this Act becomes effective, shall have one year within which to collect such tax fi. fas., issued by him, as may be uncollected, and said tax-collector shall receive all costs, fees, commissions, and other compensation due on such uncollected tax fi. fas. if collected within said year; and if not collected within said year, all of said costs, fees, commissions, and other compensation due on said uncollected fi. fas. shall be collected by the tax commissioner of Bryan County, Georgia, and turned over to the county treasurer of Bryan County, Georgia.
Sec. 13. - Severability.
If, for any reason, any portion or part of this Act shall be held by the court of last resort in this State to be unconstitutional, the whole of this Act shall not thereby become void, but only so much of the same as may be held to be unconstitutional; the purpose of this section of this Act being to put into effect in Bryan County, Georgia, the provisions of the Constitution of this State, as contained in article eleven (11), section three (3), and paragraph one (1) thereof, and to preserve and maintain, intact, as valid and of legal and binding effect, all such portions and parts of this Act as are unaffected and unmolested by the decisions of said court of last resort in this State.
Sec. 14. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with the provisions and intent of this Act be and the same are hereby repealed.
