ARTICLE VI. - COMPENSATION OF JUDGE OF THE PROBATE COURT[7]
An Act to abolish the present mode of compensating the Judge of the Probate Court of Bryan County, known as the fee system; to provide in lieu thereof an annual salary; to provide that all fees, costs or other emoluments of said officer shall become the property of the county; to provide for the collection of all such fees, costs, and emoluments; to provide for periodic statements; to provide for the payment of the operating expenses of said office; to provide an effective date; to repeal a specific Act; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia:

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1163), page 321. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended sections. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, numbering and capitalization has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets, except that catchlines have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 1. - Fee system abolished.
The present mode of compensating the Judge of the Probate Court of Bryan County, known as the fee system, is hereby abolished, and in lieu thereof, an annual salary for such officer is prescribed as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 2. - Salary.
The judge of the probate court shall receive an annual base salary in the amount of the minimum salary provided for clerks of the superior courts of counties with similar populations as provided in subsection (a) of Code Section 15-6-88 of the O.C.G.A., as now or hereafter amended [O.C.G.A. § 15-6-88(a)] . In addition to said annual base salary, the judge of the probate court shall also be entitled to and shall receive all cost-of-living raises provided in paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of Code Section 15-9-63 of the O.C.G.A., as now or hereafter amended [O.C.G.A. § 15-9-63(a)], and longevity increases provided in Code Section 15-9-65 of the O.C.G.A., as now or hereafter amended [O.C.G.A. § 15-9-65]. For the purpose of computing the salary of the judge of the probate court under this section, all cost-of-living raises and longevity increases shall be computed by adding the appropriate amounts to or applying the appropriate multipliers to the annual base salary provided for in this section. Further, if the judge of the probate court also serves as the elections superintendent, the judge shall receive a monthly supplement of $400.00. All salaries payable under this Act shall be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of Bryan County.
(1991 Ga. Laws (Act No. 143), page 4116, § 1; 1998 Ga. Laws (Act No. 929), page 4514, § 1)
Sec. 3. - Fees, fines, etc.
After the effective date of this Act, said officer shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, monies and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed him as compensation for services in any capacity, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public monies and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the 15th day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received. At the time of each such monthly payment into the county treasury, the Judge of the Probate Court shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, of all such funds received during the preceding month by such officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of money collected and the source thereof.
Sec. 4. - Office expenses.
The necessary operating expenses of the Judge of the Probate Court's office, expressly including the compensation of all personnel and employees, shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture and utilities as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of said office, shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. The determination of such requirements shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of Bryan County.
Sec. 5. - Specific repealer.
An Act supplementing the compensation received by the Judge of the Probate Court of Bryan County, approved February 19, 1953 (Ga. L. 1953, Jan.-Feb. Sess., p. 2436), as amended, is hereby repealed in its entirety.
Sec. 6. - Effective date.
This Act shall become effective on the first day of the month following the month in which it is approved by the Governor or in which it becomes law without his approval.
Sec. 7. - General repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
