ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS GENERALLY[2]
An Act to create a Board of Commissioners for the County of Bryan; to define their powers and duties; to provide for the method of selection of members, and to prescribe their qualifications; and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of the same:

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 252), page 765. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended sections. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, numbering and capitalization has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets, except that catchlines have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 1. - Created.
That from and after the first day of April, 1941, and after the qualification of the members hereinafter named, there is created a Board of Commissioners of Bryan County, which Board shall consist of five members, namely: J. O. Strickland from the 19th G. M. District, who shall serve as Commissioner of said Board until the first day of January, 1945, at which time his term of office shall expire; B. B. Brewton, from the 1380th G. M. District, who shall serve until the first day of January 1945; J. H. McCallar, from the 20th G. M. District, who shall serve until the first day of January 1945; J. T. Stubbs from the County at large, who shall serve as Chairman of said Board of Commissioners until the first day of January, 1945; and I. G. Lanier from the County at large, who shall serve until the first day of January, 1945; and W. R. Deal who shall serve as Clerk of said Board, but in the deliberations of said Board he, the said Clerk, shall have no vote.
Sec. 2. - Districts.
The County of Bryan shall be divided into three (3) commissioner districts, to be designated as one (1), two (2) and three (3), and each of said commissioner districts shall be entitled to one (1) commissioner residing in the jurisdiction of the district as its representative on said board. District No. 1 shall embrace the 19th G. M. District, District No. 2 shall embrace the 1380th G. M. District and District No. 3 shall embrace the 20th G. M. District. In addition, there shall be two members of the board elected from the County at large. These two [(2)] positions shall be designated as the "chairman post" and "vice chairman post," and candidates for these positions shall designate the post for which they are offering as a candidate.
(1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 191), page 3024, § 1)
Sec. 3. - Terms of office; manner of election.
The terms of office of the successors of the members of the Board of Commissioners of Bryan County shall be for four (4) years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. An election shall be had every four (4) years at the same time and places and under the same regulations as the election of county officers for Bryan County is held, except that in all primaries, candidates seeking the nomination and election to membership on said Board shall be voted for in the following manner, to wit: candidates seeking the nomination as District Commissioner No. 1 shall be voted for only by the qualified voters of the 19th G. M. District of Bryan County; candidates seeking the nomination as District Commissioner from District No. 2 shall be voted for only by the qualified voters of the 1380th G. M. District of Bryan County; candidates seeking the nomination as District Commissioner from District No. 3 shall be voted for only by the qualified voters of the 20th G. M. District; candidates seeking the nomination as Chairman of the Board of Commissioners and candidates seeking the nomination as Vice Chairman of the Board of Commissioners shall be voted on by the qualified voters of Bryan County in its entirety. As said terms of office of said members of the board expire, they shall be elected for the succeeding term of four (4) years at the same time and places and under the same regulations as the election of county officers for Bryan County is held, except as hereinbefore otherwise provided. Elections of members of the Board of County Commissioners shall be held in accordance with the Georgia Election Code. The Chairman and Vice Chairman provided for herein shall be elected in the general election in 1976 and their terms of office and the terms of the other members shall commence on January 1, 1977, and continue for four (4) years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 191), page 3024, § 2)
Sec. 4. - Bond.
That said Commissioners, together with the Clerk of said Board, shall each, before entering upon their duties, be commissioned by the Governor, make a good and sufficient surety bond in the sum of $1,000.00 each, with some solvent surety company authorized to operate under the laws of Georgia, and the premium or premiums required therefor shall be paid for by the County Treasurer of Bryan County on warrants drawn on the proper and legal funds for this purpose; and they shall take and subscribe an oath to faithfully perform the duties of their office and account for all moneys coming into their hands as such Commissioners, said bond to be payable to the Judge of the Probate Court and his successors in office, and the oath subscribed before him or some other officer duly authorized to administer oaths, and recorded in the office of said Judge of the Probate Court.
Sec. 5. - Chairman to preside.
The Chairman of the Board of Commissioners shall preside over all meetings, except in his absence the Vice Chairman shall preside. The Chairman of said Board shall have no vote in the deliberations of said Board except in the event of a tie vote, in which case the said Chairman shall be permitted to vote to decide the particular motion under deliberation.
(1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 191), page 3024, § 1)
Sec. 6. - Clerk.
That W. R. Deal be and he is hereby named Clerk of said Board of Commissioners of Bryan County, for the term ending January 1, 1945, at a monthly salary of $50.00 per month, to be paid monthly by the County Treasurer of Bryan County on warrants drawn on the proper and legal funds for this purpose. The duties of said Clerk shall be to keep a permanent minute book and properly record all acts, motions and official duties of said Board, including an accurate account of all moneys expended for any and all purposes; the minutes of each meeting of said Board to be read and adopted by a majority vote of said Board at the next meeting thereof; said Clerk shall issue warrants for all legal and lawful purposes as directed by a majority vote of said Board, which said warrants shall be signed jointly by the Chairman and Clerk of said Board; the amount of each warrant, to whom payable, and for what purpose issued, shall be entered in the minutes of each monthly meeting of said Board by the Clerk thereof. Said Clerk shall have no voice or vote in the deliberations of said Board. Any and all warrants issued upon the approval of a majority vote of said Board and signed by the Chairman and Clerk thereof shall be the authority of the County Treasurer to pay said warrants with the proper and legal funds of Bryan County for such purposes. However, said Clerk may be removed from office by a majority vote of said Board at any time said Board deems such removal wise and proper for the best interests of the County. In the event of a vacancy in the office of Clerk of said Board, his successor shall be elected by a majority vote of the membership of said Board, whose salary shall be fixed by said Board, and whose term of office shall expire at the pleasure of said Board.
Sec. 7. - Commissioner qualifications.
That no one shall be eligible or qualified for election as a Commissioner for the County of Bryan who is a freeholder; nor shall anyone be elected who holds funds belonging to the County or who is indebted to the County, other than for taxes due; and the said Commissioners shall be subject to impeachment for incompetency or malfeasance in office, in the same manner as county officers are subject to impeachment.
Sec. 8. - Meeting; compensation of members.
(a)
The board shall prescribe by resolution, from time to time, the time, place, and dates of regular meetings. The board shall call meetings and special sessions in compliance with all existing statutes and ordinances. The Clerk of the Board shall record the acts and deeds of the Board at all such meetings, and the records of the Board shall at all times be open and subject to inspection by the public.
(b)
(1)
The Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Bryan County shall be compensated in the amount of $250.00 per month. The Vice Chairman and each of the remaining members of the board shall be compensated in the amount of $125.00 per month. All such compensation shall be paid from the funds of Bryan County.
(2)
In addition to the compensation provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection, the Chairman shall receive the amount of $250.00 per month and the Vice Chairman and each of the other members of the Board shall receive the amount of $125.00 per month as an expense allowance for travel and other expenses incurred in the performance of duties within the County.
(3)
The Chairman, Vice Chairman, and members of the Board of Commissioners referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection mean the Chairman, Vice Chairman, and members of the Board of Commissioners who are elected pursuant to the provisions of an Act providing for the election of members of the Board of Commissioners of Bryan County, approved April 12, 1982 (Ga. L. 1982, p. 4270).
(1971 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 157), page 2337, § 1; 1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 314), page 4860, § 1; 2010 Ga. Laws (Act No. 511), page 3605, § 1)
Sec. 9. - Disbursements.
That said Board shall exercise all authority prescribed in Code Sections 694 to 704, inclusive, of the Code of 1910 and amendments thereto; that all disbursements thereunder or any other funds of the County, shall be by warrant drawn against the fund from which said debt shall be paid, if funds are available, otherwise to be paid from general funds; and all warrants shall be signed by the Chairman and the Clerk, and no warrant shall be issued and signed until audited and approved by the majority members of said Board.
Sec. 10. - General powers.
That said Board of Commissioners shall have original and exclusive jurisdiction over the following subject matters, to-wit: In directing and controlling all property of said County of Bryan, as they may deem expedient, wise and proper, according to law, including the county jail and court house, district justice court houses, county public works camps, in levying a general tax for general purposes and a special tax for special purposes, according to law, and over all roads as aforesaid; in establishing and changing election precincts and militia districts; in examining and allowing, according to law, all claims that may arise against the county; in examining and auditing, or the hiring of an examiner or auditor for, the accounts and records of all officers having the care, management, keeping, collecting or disbursing moneys belonging to the county or appropriated for its benefit or use, and bringing them to a settlement; in making rules and regulations according to law, for the support of the poor of the County for the promotion of health and agriculture, as are granted by law; also to do all and singular other acts devolving upon the office, said Board of Commissioners having full and complete charge of county affairs, and to exercise all power over roads, bridges and revenues under the laws of this State as given to judges of the probate court in counties where there are no Commissioners.
Sec. 11. - Purchases.
That said Commissioners shall be held strictly in conformity to Sections 393 and 394 of the Civil Code of 1910, and amendments thereto, and that no purchases shall be made from such persons therein described except upon a statement of all goods and merchandise duly itemized, and prices charged, which shall be spread upon the minutes of said Commissioners.
Sec. 12. - Annual financial statement.
That the said Commissioners shall publish a statement twice a year in a newspaper published in said County of Bryan, showing the financial condition of said county, which said statement shall be duly attested by the Clerk and Chairman of the Board as the correct condition of the county at the time said statement is issued.
Sec. 13. - Vacancies.
That in case of a vacancy on said Board by death, resignation or otherwise, the Judge of the Superior Court of Bryan County, upon official notification of such vacancy, shall immediately thereafter appoint a successor, who shall and must possess the qualifications for holding said office hereinbefore stated, and who shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as hereinbefore provided, and who shall hold office until the next election, at which election the successor of the member causing the vacancy shall be elected.
Sec. 14. - Public works and prisoners.
That said Board of Commissioners shall closely examine the work done by the warden of the public works camp, and shall appoint and supervise guards under him and shall fix the salary of such warden, guards, etc., and shall see that the county physician, whom said Board shall name, shall perform his duties, and shall fix and pay the salaries of each in accordance with the laws and under the rules of the State Prison Commission.
Sec. 15. - Tax relief.
That said Board of Commissioners shall have the right and power to relieve double taxes according to law, and the authority to change or alter any mistake of facts that may appear from the records of the Tax Commissioner as to amount of taxes returned so that same may confirm to the truth, but not the authority to arbitrarily change any returns or pay back any amount paid.
Sec. 16. - Selection of Chairman; functions.
That on and after the first day of January, 1945, the members of the Board shall elect a Chairman of said Board from among their members, which said Chairman shall preside over all of the regular and special meetings of said Board, and that in the event the present Chairman named herein, J. T. Stubbs, fails or refuses for any reason to accept said Chairmanship, the remaining members shall name a Chairman of said Board from among the remaining members.
Sec. 17. - Legal counsel.
That said Board of Commissioners shall have and are hereby vested with the authority to employ counsel and to pay for such service out of the proper fund of the County, a sum not to exceed $300.00 per annum for such services, and the person so employed as counsel shall have had a minimum of two years' practical experience as a practicing attorney and shall have been a resident of Bryan County for twelve (12) months preceding said appointment.
Sec. 18. - Auditor.
That the Judge of the Superior Court of Bryan County shall approve the selection of an auditor for the purpose of auditing the records of said Board, before said Board will be authorized to employ such auditor.
Sec. 19. - Competitive bids.
That all purchases made by said Board on behalf of Bryan County shall be based upon competitive bids from reliable persons, firms or individuals, and any and all persons interested shall be supplied with an accurate list of the supplies and/or materials to be purchased, which said list shall include the quantity, grade or quality of each article; said list to be provided upon request at least five (5) days before the contemplated purchase or purchases are to be made by said Board.
Sec. 20. - Revenue.
That from and after the passage of this Act, all moneys and funds received by or coming into the hands and possession of said Board, or a member thereof, or the Clerk thereof, for and on account of said County of Bryan, shall be by them promptly paid over to the County Treasurer of said County and his receipt taken therefor, which receipt shall be filed away with the other records of said Board and shall be kept open and subject to public inspection; and said moneys and funds shall be paid out and disbursed by said Board only upon county warrants, drawn by the Chairman and Clerk of said Board, after the issuance of such warrants has been authorized and directed by a majority vote of said Board; said warrants to be drawn upon the County Treasurer of Bryan County.
Sec. 21. - Repealer.
That all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act be and the same are hereby repealed.
