Chapter 14 - COURTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.; appointment of judges of municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-2; powers of municipal court judges in criminal cases, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-3; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5; jurisdiction of municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-6 et seq.; training courses for judge of municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-11; municipal court clerk training, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-13.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BUCHANAN MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 14-19. - Name; court schedule.
The city municipal court, created by the city Charter, shall be convened at regular intervals, and at such other times as may be determined by the judge. A court schedule shall be published and made available to the public, either at city hall or at the city police department.
Sec. 14-20. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violations of this Code, the city Charter, all city ordinances, and such other violations as permitted by general state law.
(b)
The court shall have the authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed a fine as authorized by law or ten days in jail.
(c)
The court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction, not to exceed a fine of $1,000.00, or imprisonment for six months, or both a fine and imprisonment, or may fix punishment by fine, imprisonment, community service, or any other form of alternative sentencing as now or hereafter provided by law. If state law authorizes punishment in excess of the fine and/or imprisonment specified herein, then the court may impose the greater punishment.
(d)
The court shall have the authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray its costs of operation, and, with regard to prisoners bound over to any superior court for violations of state law, shall be entitled to reimbursement for the actual costs of meals, transportation, general caretaking expenses, court costs, administrative fees, and such other fees as are authorized to be collected by state law as presently enacted or hereafter amended.
(e)
The court shall have the authority to establish bail and recognizance to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash, personal or real property as surety for the appearance of persons charged with such violations. Whenever any person gives bond for his appearance and fails to appear at the time fixed for trial, the bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at that time, and execution shall be issued thereon by serving the defendant and the defendant's sureties with a rule nisi, at least five days before a hearing thereon. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond to secure the appearance of a defendant at trial, and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be on order of the municipal judge declared forfeited to the city; or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the amount forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for unpaid city property taxes and fees.
(f)
The court shall have the same authority as the county superior court to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party, to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments, or sentences, and to administer such oaths as may be necessary.
(g)
The court shall have the authority to bind defendants over to the appropriate court when it appears, by probable cause, that state law has been violated, or where a defendant makes a written request for a trial by jury, or under other circumstances in which a transfer is authorized by state law.
(h)
The court is specifically vested with all jurisdiction and power throughout the corporate limits of the city as granted generally by law to municipal courts, and particularly by such laws that authorize the abatement of nuisances and prosecution of traffic violations.
(i)
Subject to the approval of the mayor and council, the municipal court is further authorized to enter into any contracts or agreements it deems necessary or expedient for certain services, including, but not limited to, housing persons charged with city offenses in other jail facilities, probation and related supervision services, collection of fines, fees, and other delinquent payments, and similar such services.
State Law reference— Jurisdiction of municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-6 et seq.
Sec. 14-21. - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from the decisions and judgments of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases and such other cases in which certiorari is appropriate under state law. Such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of a judge of the county superior court, under the state law regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
State Law reference— When write of certiorari will lie in superior court, O.C.G.A. § 5-4-1.
Secs. 14-22—14-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - MUNICIPAL JUDGE

Sec. 14-46. - Qualifications.
The municipal court shall be presided over by a part-time municipal judge and any other stand-by or substitute judges as may be provided by ordinance. No person shall be qualified and eligible to serve as a judge of the city municipal court unless that person:
(1)
Has attained the age of 30 years;
(2)
Is a qualified and registered voter in the county;
(3)
Has resided in the county for no fewer than five years immediately preceding appointment; and
(4)
Possesses all other certifications and qualifications as may be required by law.
State Law reference— Municipality to set qualifications and compensation of municipal judge, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-2.
Sec. 14-47. - Appointment; term; compensation.
The judge of the municipal court shall be appointed by, and serve at the pleasure of, the mayor and council, and shall serve until a successor is duly appointed and qualified. The mayor and council shall fix the compensation of the municipal judges. The municipal judge shall serve at will and may be removed from office at any time by majority vote of the city council, unless otherwise provided by ordinance.
State Law reference— Appointment of judges of municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-2.
Sec. 14-48. - Oath of office.
Before assuming office, the municipal judge shall take an oath, to be administered by the mayor, that he will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of office to the best of his ability, and without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the city council as maintained by the clerk.
State Law reference— Oath of public officers, O.C.G.A. § 45-3-1.
Sec. 14-49. - Authority.
(a)
The municipal judge shall have all power and authority conferred upon municipal judges by state law and the city Charter, including, but not by way of limitation, the specific additional authority set forth in this section.
(b)
The municipal judge may compel the presence of all parties necessary for the proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summons, subpoenas, and warrants, which may be served or executed by any officer as authorized by law of the city Charter.
(c)
The municipal judge shall be authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of any person charged with violations of this Code and any ordinances of the city.
(d)
The judge shall have the same authority as a magistrate of the state or county to issue warrants for violations of state laws committed within the corporate limits of the city. The judge shall also have the authority to issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged with violating any of the terms or conditions of any sentence of probation imposed upon them in the municipal court and revoke any or all of said persons' remaining probated sentence, if those persons are found to have violated the terms and conditions of their probation.
State Law reference— Powers of municipal court judges in criminal cases, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-3; jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-6 et seq.
Sec. 14-50. - Rules of court.
(a)
With the approval of the city council, the municipal judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court. However, the city council may adopt, in whole or in part, the rules and regulations applicable to the court.
(b)
The rules and regulations made or adopted shall be filed with the city clerk and made available for public inspection. Upon written request, a copy of said rules and regulations shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court cases at least 48 hours prior to their arraignment, trial, or any other hearing or proceeding.
