Chapter 10 - BUSINESSES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BILLIARD AND POOL ROOMS

Sec. 10-19. - License required.
Each person keeping, operating or maintaining a billiard table, pool table or any other table of like character within the corporate limits of the City for use by the public shall be required to obtain a license from the City Clerk in the manner specified in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-13; Code 2004, § 18-42(a))
Sec. 10-20. - Hours of operation.
It shall be unlawful for the owner, operator or manager of any billiard or pool room in the City to permit such establishment to be open for business between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. or between the hours of 12:00 midnight on Saturday and 6:00 a.m. on Monday.
(Prior Code, § 6-13; Code 2004, § 18-42(b))
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 43-8-2(b)(2).
Sec. 10-21. - Doors.
The doors of all billiard or pool rooms licensed under this article shall be kept unlocked whenever the tables are in use, or when any person other than the proprietor or his agent is present in such place.
(Prior Code, § 6-13; Code 2004, § 18-42(c))
Secs. 10-22—10-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS, AND PUBLIC EXHIBITIONS

Sec. 10-46. - License required.
No person shall conduct or operate a circus, carnival or public exhibition without having first obtained a license from the City Clerk in the manner specified in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-14; Code 2004, § 18-43(a))
Sec. 10-47. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Carnival means amusement activities, rides, merry-go-rounds, booths for the conduct of games of skill, food dispensing facilities and sideshows.
Public exhibition means circuses, menageries, sideshows and other similar itinerant amusement enterprises which are open to the public and for admission to which a fee is charged.
(Prior Code, § 6-14; Code 2004, § 18-43(b))
Sec. 10-48. - Fees established.
The business license fee imposed on each circus, carnival or public exhibition operating within the City limits shall be determined by the Mayor and Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-14; Code 2004, § 18-43(c))
Sec. 10-49. - Conditions of issuance.
No license under this article shall be issued until the following conditions have been met:
(1)
The operator and sponsor of the circus, carnival or public exhibition have each assumed full responsibility for maintaining order and for keeping the site clean and free of trash, papers and other debris, and have placed trash containers in adequate number and in convenient locations for the use of the public.
(2)
All rides have been inspected for mechanical, structural, electrical and other hazards by the appropriate officers and employees of the City, and adequate safeguards have been placed to protect both operators and the general public from inadvertently coming into contact with moving parts, belts, motor gears, electrical switches and other possible or potential hazards.
(3)
The applicant has placed on file in the Clerk's office a certificate of insurance indicating that there is in effect public liability insurance covering any damages arising out of the use and operation of any and all devices and facilities operated in connection with such carnival or exhibition. Such insurance shall be in the minimum amount of $1,000,000.00 for each person, and $3,000,000.00 for each accident.
(Prior Code, § 6-14; Code 2004, § 18-43(d))
Sec. 10-50. - Inspection.
It shall be the duty of the City Clerk and Police Department to see that proper inspections and patrols are made of the premises used for the activities licensed in this article.
(Prior Code, § 6-14; Code 2004, § 18-43(e))
Secs. 10-51—10-73. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - JUNK DEALERS AND JUNKYARDS

Sec. 10-74. - License required.
Each junk dealer, who does business within the City, shall be required to obtain a license from the City Clerk in the manner specified in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-16; Code 2004, § 18-45(a))
State Law reference— Persons engaged in the business of purchasing junk in any county of the state are required to register their names with the county probate judge, O.C.G.A. § 43-22-2.
Sec. 10-75. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Business premises or premises means the area of a junkyard as described in a junk dealer's license or application for license, as provided for in this article.
Junk means old iron, steel, brass, copper, tin, lead, or other base metals; old cordage, ropes, rags, fibers, or fabrics; old rubber; old bottles or other glass; bones, wastepaper and other waste or discarded material which might be prepared to be used again in some form; and motor vehicles, no longer used as such, to be used for scrap metal or stripping of parts; but the term "junk" shall not include materials or objects accumulated by a person as byproducts, waste, or scraps from the operation of his own business or materials or objects held and used by a manufacturer as an integral part of his own manufacturing processes.
Junk dealer means a person who operates a junkyard within the City.
Junkyard means a yard, lot, or place, covered or uncovered, outdoors or in any enclosed building, containing junk, upon which occurs one or more acts of buying, keeping, dismantling, processing, selling, or offering for sale any such junk, in whole units or by parts, for a business or commercial purpose, whether or not the proceeds from such act are to be used for charity.
(Prior Code, § 6-16; Code 2004, § 18-45(b))
Sec. 10-76. - Application.
Application for a junkyard or junk dealer's license shall be made as provided in this chapter, except that such application shall contain the following additional information:
(1)
The name, residence address, and telephone number of each person employed or intended to be employed in the business as of the time the application is filed;
(2)
A sketch of the actual premises to be used in connection with the business, giving distances in feet and showing adjoining roads, property lines, buildings, and uses; and
(3)
A description of the materials with which any building to be used in connection with the licensed business are, or are to be made; a sketch giving distances, showing the location of such buildings on the business premises; and a diagram or plan giving distances and heights, showing floors, exits, entrances, windows, ventilators and walls.
(Prior Code, § 6-16; Code 2004, § 18-45(c))
Sec. 10-77. - General operating requirements.
The following general operating requirements shall apply to all junk dealers licensed in accordance with the provisions of this article:
(1)
The junkyard, together with things kept therein, shall at all times be maintained in a sanitary condition.
(2)
No water shall be allowed to stand in any place on the premises in such manner as to afford a breeding place for mosquitoes.
(3)
Weeds and vegetation on the premises, other than trees, shall be kept at a height as defined by section 18-4.
(4)
No garbage or other waste liable to give off a foul odor or attract vermin shall be kept on the premises, nor shall any refuse of any kind be kept on the premises, unless such refuse is junk and is in use in the licensed business.
(5)
No junk shall be allowed to rest upon or protrude over any public street, walkway, or curb or become scattered or blown off the business premises.
(6)
The licensee shall permit inspection of the business premises by any police officer at any reasonable time.
(7)
No junkyard shall be allowed to become a nuisance, nor shall any junkyard be operated in such manner as to become injurious to the health, safety, or welfare of the community or of any residents close by.
(Prior Code, § 6-16; Code 2004, § 18-45(d))
Sec. 10-78. - Stolen goods.
Every junk dealer who shall receive or be in possession of any goods, articles or things of value which may have been lost or stolen shall upon demand produce such article or thing to any member of the Police Department for examination.
(Prior Code, § 6-16; Code 2004, § 18-45(e))
Secs. 10-79—10-99. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - USED CAR DEALERS

Sec. 10-100. - License required.
Any used car or used motor vehicle dealer, as such terms are defined in O.C.G.A. § 43-49-2(17)(a), who does business within the City shall be required to obtain a license from the City Clerk in the manner specified in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-17; Code 2004, § 18-46(a))
Sec. 10-101. - Restriction on issuance.
No license under this article shall be issued to any applicant who has not been licensed by the State Board for the Registration of Used Motor Vehicle Dealers.
(Prior Code, § 6-17; Code 2004, § 18-46(b))
Sec. 10-102. - Records.
Each used car or used motor vehicle dealer licensed under this article shall keep a record of all motor vehicles offered for sale, exchange or disposal to the public, which record shall show the make of such motor vehicle, the year of its manufacture, its serial number and engine number, which record shall always be kept available for inspection by the City Police Department. It shall be the further duty of every such person to immediately report to the Police Department the presence in his place of business of any motor vehicle on which the serial or engine number has been defaced or altered.
(Prior Code, § 6-17; Code 2004, § 18-46(c))
Sec. 10-103. - Inspections.
It shall be the duty of the Police Department to make inspections from time to time for the purpose of seeing that the records required in this article are being kept.
(Prior Code, § 6-17; Code 2004, § 18-46(d))
Sec. 10-104. - Exceptions.
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to any individual making an isolated sale of his own vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-17; Code 2004, § 18-46(e))
Secs. 10-105—10-125. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - LICENSING AND REGULATION

Sec. 10-126. - Applications.
(a)
Generally. Every person required to procure a license under the provisions of this chapter or any ordinance or law of the City shall submit an application for such license to the City Clerk, which application shall conform to the requirements of this section.
(b)
Form of application. Each application shall be a written statement upon forms provided by the City Clerk and shall contain the following information:
(1)
Name and home address of the applicant if an individual, or home office address if a corporation or partnership;
(2)
Place where the proposed business is to be located;
(3)
Kind of business to be carried on;
(4)
Name and home addresses of the partners, if a partnership;
(5)
Names and home addresses of the officers and directors, if a corporation;
(6)
Complete record of all arrests and convictions against the applicant and every partner, officer or director of the applicant for violations of any and all laws and ordinances of the City, state or federal government;
(7)
Such additional information which the City Clerk or Council may find reasonably necessary to the fair administration of this chapter.
(c)
Verification. Each application shall be sworn to by the applicant if an individual, or by a partner if a partnership or by an officer if a corporation.
(d)
Payment of fee. Each application shall be accompanied by the amount of the fee chargeable for such license, such amount to be prorated by quarters to the end of the fiscal year.
(1)
The City Clerk shall issue a receipt to the applicant for the amount of the fee tendered with the application for a license, provided that such receipt shall not be construed as approval of the application, nor shall it entitle or authorize the applicant to open or maintain any business contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(2)
Upon the disapproval of any application for which a fee has been submitted under the provisions of this section, the City Clerk shall refund such fee, provided that the applicant is not otherwise indebted to the City.
(e)
Confidentiality of information. All information furnished or secured under the authority of this chapter shall be kept in strict confidence by the City Clerk, shall not be subject to public inspection and shall be utilized solely by the officers of the City responsible for administering the provisions of this chapter.
(f)
False statements. False statements on any application for a license shall be grounds for immediate revocation of such license.
(Prior Code, § 6-1; Code 2004, § 18-31)
Sec. 10-127. - Procedure for issuance.
(a)
Council consideration. Upon the receipt of the application, the City Clerk shall forward the same to the City Council for consideration and action at its next regular scheduled public meeting.
(b)
Limitation of issuance. No license shall be issued to any applicant whose place of business is not in full compliance with all building codes adopted by the City.
(c)
Issuance of license. Upon the express approval of the City Council, the City Clerk shall issue a business license to the applicant therefor, which license shall state the nature of the business authorized and bear the date of issuance and the signatures of the Mayor and City Clerk.
(d)
Council discretion. The granting of a business license under the provisions of this article shall be deemed a privilege only, and nothing contained in this section shall be construed as granting any person whose business is subject to municipal regulation any legal right to engage in such business.
(Prior Code, § 6-2; Code 2004, § 18-32)
Sec. 10-128. - Display of license.
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the City to keep his license posted in a conspicuous place on the premises used for such business at all times.
(Prior Code, § 6-3; Code 2004, § 18-33)
Sec. 10-129. - Inspections.
(a)
Search of premises. Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the City who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any reasonable time that admission is requested.
(b)
Testing of material. Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably necessary to secure conformance with any ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the City whose business is governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer or employee of the City requesting the same sufficient samples of such material or commodity for such analysis upon request.
(c)
Refusal to allow inspection. In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the mayor may revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of a licensed business in the City who refuses to permit any officer or employee who is authorized to make such inspection or take such sample to make the inspection, or take an adequate sample of the commodity, or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the performance of his duty in making such inspection; provided, however, that no license shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand is made upon the licensee or person in charge of the premises, in the name of the City, stating that such inspection or sample is desired at the time it is sought to make the inspection or obtain the sample.
(Prior Code, § 6-4; Code 2004, § 18-34)
Sec. 10-130. - Termination and renewal of licenses.
(a)
All annual licenses shall become due on January 1 of each year and shall be declared delinquent if not paid within 45 days after the due date.
(b)
Any person subject to the license fee imposed by this article who shall fail to pay such license fee on or before the due date, shall be subject to a penalty of 20 percent of the license fee.
(c)
Each licensee shall make a written application for renewal on forms supplied by the City Clerk on or before January 1 of each calendar year, which application shall contain substantially the same information as the initial application and be accompanied by all required fees.
(d)
An applicant for renewal of a license shall be entitled to a refund of fees tendered if he withdraws his application for renewal prior to the final action on the application by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-5; Code 2004, § 18-35)
Sec. 10-131. - Revocation and suspension.
The City Council, after affording the licensee notice of the charges and opportunity to be heard with respect to any revocation proceedings, may, if it finds this chapter to have been violated by the licensee, his agent or employee, revoke such license in its entirety, suspend the license for a specified period of time, place the licensee on probation or place other conditions thereon as the Council may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 6-6; Code 2004, § 18-36)
Sec. 10-132. - Change of location.
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed business or occupation may be changed, provided that ten days' notice thereof is given to the City Clerk, and provided that all building and zoning requirements are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 6-7; Code 2004, § 18-37)
Sec. 10-133. - Transfer of licenses.
All licenses shall be personal to the licensee to whom issued, but in cases where the ownership is changed and both the name and location of the licensed business or occupation are maintained, the Mayor and City Council may allow the license to be transferred.
(Prior Code, § 6-8; Code 2004, § 18-38)
Sec. 10-134. - Duplicate licenses.
A duplicate license shall be issued by the City Clerk to replace a previously issued license which has been lost, stolen, defaced or destroyed without any willful conduct on the part of the licensee, upon the filing of a sworn affidavit attesting to such fact and the payment of a fee to the City Clerk as specified in the fee schedule on file in the Clerk's office.
(Prior Code, § 6-9; Code 2004, § 18-39)
Sec. 10-135. - Joint license.
A person engaged in two or more businesses at the same location shall be required to obtain separate licenses for conducting each of such businesses for which a license is required.
(Prior Code, § 6-10; Code 2004, § 18-40)
Sec. 10-136. - Penalties for violation of chapter.
Any person who shall conduct a business or occupation without having obtained a license therefor as required by this chapter, or who shall violate any other provision of this chapter, shall upon conviction therefor be punished as provided in section 1-9.
(Prior Code, § 6-11; Code 2004, § 18-41)
Sec. 10-137. - General contractors.
All general contractors who contract with the City for any public work exceeding $5,000.00 in amount shall be required to obtain a performance and payment bond in the amount and manner specified by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-15; Code 2004, § 18-44)
Sec. 10-138. - Schedule of license fees.
A business or occupation license fee is assessed against every person or company engaging in business. The license fee schedule is on file in the Clerk's office.
(Prior Code, § 6-18; Code 2004, § 18-47)
