Chapter 16 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Local fire departments generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 16-1. - Fire Department to answer calls in City and area served with City water.
The Fire Department of the City is authorized and directed to answer all calls within the City and all fire calls within the area served by City water. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as to prevent the City from entering upon any special agreement or contract with dwellings located out of the corporate limits of the City.
(Prior Code, § 9-1; Code 2004, § 34-1)
Sec. 16-2. - Damaging fire hydrants.
It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to hit, knock down, or otherwise injure a fire hydrant, either from carelessness or otherwise, and the violator shall be subject to a fine of at least an amount that it will cost to replace the same as a minimum fine.
(Prior Code, § 9-2; Code 2004, § 34-2)
Sec. 16-3. - Compensation of Volunteer Department.
The City shall pay the Volunteer Fire Department compensation in an amount as decided by the Mayor and Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-3; Code 2004, § 34-3)
Sec. 16-4. - Fire prevention code adopted; enforcement.
There is adopted by the Mayor and City Council, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain code specified in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 with the revisions thereof and the whole thereof, of which code not less than one copy has been and now is filed in the office of the City Clerk, and the same is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this section, and from the date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the City. The provisions of the fire prevention code adopted in this section shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire Department of the City or the person so designated by the Mayor and Council.
(Prior Code, § 9-4; Code 2004, § 34-4)
Sec. 16-5. - Penalties for violation of code.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the fire prevention code or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, shall for each such failure or violation or noncompliance be punished as provided in section 1-9.
(Prior Code, § 9-5; Code 2004, § 34-5)
