Chapter 26 - SOLID WASTE[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local, multijurisdictional and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; yard trimmings disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.2; Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-60 et seq.; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries without permission, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249; transportation of biomedical waste, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-253.1; solid waste management education program, establishment of Georgia Clean and Beautiful Advisory Committee and Interagency Council on Solid Waste Management, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-7.3; authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2).

Sec. 26-1. - Purpose of chapter.
The purpose of the rules and regulations contained in this chapter is to provide for the protection of the public health by prescribing the manner of storage, collection, transportation and disposal of residential and industrial solid waste generated within the corporate limits of the City.
(Prior Code, § 10-13; Code 2004, § 58-1)
Sec. 26-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Garbage means putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
Hazardous waste means material in a solid or semisolid state resulting from the manufacture or use of pesticides or drugs (other than normal household use), pathological wastes, chemical wastes, flammable or explosive materials, and similar waste material in a solid or semisolid state, that the City may consider a likely hazard to the public health or safety, except radioactive waste materials, as provided in state law.
Industrial waste (industrial solid waste) means the solid waste materials from factories, processing plants and manufacturing enterprises, and includes food processing waste, meat and poultry processing waste, condemned food, ashes and cinders from power plants, agricultural products waste, land clearance waste and similar waste.
Open dump means a disposal site at which solid waste from one or more sources is consolidated and left to decompose, burn or to otherwise create environmental pollution or nuisance.
Premises means land, buildings or other structures, vehicles, watercraft, or parts thereof, upon or in which solid waste is stored.
Putrescible wastes means wastes that are capable of being decomposed by microorganisms. The term "putrescible wastes" includes kitchen wastes, manure, offal, hatchery and poultry wastes, and garbage.
Reclamation means a controlled method of sorting and storing solid wastes for future use in accordance with an approved plan.
Rubbish means nonputrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and noncombustible waste not subject to rapid decomposition derived from places of residence, commercial areas and institutions and shall include paper, rags, plastics, cartons, boxes, tree and yard trimmings, furniture, appliances, metals, minerals, cans, bottles, glass, crockery, excelsior, bedding, rubber, discarded clothing and similar materials.
Sanitary landfilling means a method of disposing of putrescible waste and/or hazardous waste on land by placing an earth cover thereon.
Scavenge means uncontrolled picking from discarded solid waste materials.
Solid waste means putrescible and nonputrescible waste, except human body waste, and shall include garbage, rubbish, paper, cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture, appliances, metals, tin cans, glass, crockery, dunnage, ashes, street refuse, dead animals, waste materials generated in industrial operations, residue incineration, food processing wastes, demolition wastes, construction wastes, and any other wastes in a solid or semisolid state, not otherwise defined in this chapter.
Waste means unwanted or discarded material, except human body waste.
(Prior Code, § 10-13; Code 2004, § 58-2)
Sec. 26-3. - Garbage containers.
(a)
Generally. No person shall dispose of any solid waste for collection or other purposes, except in the proper containers as provided by this chapter.
(b)
Containers. Solid waste containers shall be maintained in good condition. Containers failing to comply with these provisions or with sharp or jagged edges or with defects liable to hamper or injure the person collecting the contents thereof shall be promptly replaced.
(c)
Bags. Plastic bags of a type, size and material designed for solid waste storage and disposal may be used to contain garbage and rubbish for storage and collection. Disposable bags shall be unbroken and securely sealed and loaded in a manner that normal handling will not cause the bag to open.
(Prior Code, § 10-14; Code 2004, § 58-3)
Sec. 26-4. - Collection.
(a)
Generally. All solid waste generated or accumulated in the areas served by the City shall be collected, transported and disposed of by the City through its designated agents, employees, or contract representatives. No other person shall collect, transport or dispose of any solid waste generated or accumulated in the City except as provided for in this chapter.
(b)
Limitations. Industrial waste, large animals over 30 pounds, or waste from construction, demolition, landscaping or processing operations will not be collected, transported or disposed of by the City, but such waste collection, transportation and disposal shall be by the owners and/or generators of such waste or animals.
(Prior Code, § 10-15; Code 2004, § 58-4)
Sec. 26-5. - Preparation and storage of garbage prior to collection.
(a)
Garbage and rubbish shall be drained of excess liquid before being placed for collection. Rubbish may be placed in containers not over 50 pounds gross weight when placed for collection or in bundles not over 50 pounds each. Limbs or cuttings shall not be over four feet in length and four inches in diameter. Larger items in size or weight may be handled at special fees to be determined by the City or its designee.
(b)
No person shall place any solid waste in any stream, lake, or other body of water. Any unauthorized accumulation of solid waste on any premises is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. Failure to remove any existing accumulation of solid waste within such reasonable time as may be fixed by written notice of the Mayor and Council shall be deemed a violation of the regulations of this chapter.
(c)
Solid waste to be collected by the City or its representative shall be placed for collection on the curb or beside the roadway in front of the residence or establishment owning the same, or, if the property abuts on an alley, at the rear of the property, but not in the gutter nor in the street or alley in such manner as to interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 10-16; Code 2004, § 58-5)
Sec. 26-6. - Scavenging of containers.
No person other than the owner thereof, or an agent or employee of the City, or any employee of a person holding a contract with the City for collection of solid waste, shall interfere with any container placed for the purpose of storing solid waste pending collection, or remove or take any of the contents thereof, or remove any such container from the location where the container shall have been placed by the owner thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10-17; Code 2004, § 58-6)
Sec. 26-7. - Appeal.
Any person aggrieved by a requirement of, or a fee charged by, the City shall have the right to appeal to the Mayor and Council, which body may, upon hearing, confirm, modify or revoke such requirement or fee.
(Prior Code, § 10-19 Code 2004, § 58-8)
Sec. 26-8. - Penalties for violation of chapter.
(a)
Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(b)
Any person who shall violate the provisions of this chapter or who shall continue any violation hereof beyond the time limit provided for in subsection (a) of this section shall, upon conviction, be subject to section 1-9.
(Prior Code, § 10-20; Code 2004, § 58-9)
