Chapter 14 - COURT

Sec. 14-1. - Powers and authority of judge.
(a)
The judge of the municipal court shall have the power and authority to try all offenders against the laws of the City and all other offenses authorized by law, and shall punish offenders according to the limits set by the Charter, or work on the public streets of the City not to exceed six months, except where a greater amount of time is authorized by law. He may impose all or any part of such punishment on any offender convicted of violating the laws of the City, as he may deem fit and proper, and shall cause the arrest and trial of any person violating the laws of the City.
(b)
The judge shall have the power and authority to accept pleas of guilty for violations of the laws of the City, and to sentence offenders in the same manner as if they had been tried and found guilty.
(c)
The judge shall have the power and authority to fix bail in such amount as he may deem proper, not to exceed the maximum amount allowed by state law.
(d)
The judge shall have statutory power to bind over or commit to jail offenders against any criminal law, whenever, in the course of an investigation before such officer, a proper case therefor shall be made out by the evidence.
(Prior Code, § 11-1; Code 2004, § 30-1)
Sec. 14-2. - Procedural rights of defendant; sound construction of laws required.
Any person charged with any offense against any of the ordinances of the City shall be informed, by summons in writing served on him, of the nature and cause of the accusation; shall have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses on his behalf; shall have a speedy trial in the municipal court; shall be confronted with the witnesses against him and have the privilege of cross examination, as in the state superior court. The same rules as to the examination of witnesses and the evidence adduced as obtained in such courts, as far as they are applicable to examining courts, shall be applicable to cases before the municipal court. A sound construction of the City Charter and this Code shall be applicable to cases before the municipal court. No one shall be fined or punished without an opportunity of being heard in defense.
(Prior Code, § 11-2; Code 2004, § 30-2)
Sec. 14-3. - Penalty for contempt of court.
Any person who, during the sitting of municipal court, shall be guilty of a contempt of court or refuse to abide by any sentence or order of such court shall be punished according to the maximum penalty allowed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 11-3; Code 2004, § 30-3)
Sec. 14-4. - Service of summons.
Any person charged with violating any laws of the City shall receive notice by service of a summons as provided in this section. Such summons shall be issued by the judge of the municipal court upon the request of the City Clerk or his or her designee or any police officer of the City. The summons shall be directed to the accused and shall distinctly state the offense charged, the time and place, as far as practicable, of the offense charged, and the day, hour and place of trial, requiring the accused to appear before the judge of the municipal court to answer the accusation made. Service of the summons shall be made by a police officer of the City by serving the accused personally or by leaving a copy at his most notorious place of abode, except that in the case of a summons issued for violation of laws or ordinances relating to the parking of motor vehicles, such summons may be directed to an unknown person as owner of an automobile designated in the summons and may be served upon such person by leaving a copy on or attached to such automobile.
(Prior Code, § 11-4; Code 2004, § 30-4)
Sec. 14-5. - Witness subpoena; issuance; service.
The City Clerk or his or her designee shall issue subpoenas for the appearance of all witnesses necessary for the prosecution or for the defense in any case pending before the municipal court upon the direction of the judge of such court. All subpoenas shall be served in the same manner as a summons.
(Prior Code, § 11-5; Code 2004, § 30-5)
Sec. 14-6. - Failure to obey summons or subpoena.
Any person who fails to appear at the time and place set out in any summons or subpoena served upon him shall be guilty of contempt of court and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in section 14-3.
(Prior Code, § 11-6; Code 2004, § 30-6)
Sec. 14-7. - Arrest and bond.
When a police officer has arrested any person for violation of any provision of this Code or any municipal ordinance and a trial cannot be had immediately, the officer may take a cash bond not exceeding the maximum fine for the offense or a bond with a good security for the appearance of such person before the judge of the municipal court. If such person fails or refuses to give a bond, the officer may confine him in the City jail until a trial can be held, provided that the Mayor, in his discretion, may release such person on his own recognizance without security to appear at the next session of the municipal court to answer such violations.
(Prior Code, § 11-7; Code 2004, § 30-7)
Sec. 14-8. - Forfeiture of bond.
Upon the failure of a person to appear in the municipal court at the time and place fixed by the summons, the judge of such court shall enter a judgment of forfeiture on any cash bond or, in the case of a security bond, shall pass a rule requiring the principal and surety on such bond to show cause on the date named therein, which date shall not be less than ten days from the passage of such ruling, why they should not be required to pay the amount of such bond. If no sufficient cause is shown, the judge shall enter judgment against the principal and surety for the amount of the forfeited bond and shall direct the City Clerk or his or her designee to issue execution thereon.
(Prior Code, § 11-8; Code 2004, § 30-8)
Sec. 14-9. - Execution for fines.
When any fine is imposed by the municipal court, if the sum is not immediately paid, the Clerk or his or her designee shall issue an execution instanter to be levied upon the goods, chattels, lands, and tenements of the person so fined. This execution shall bear test in the name of the mayor and shall be signed officially by the Clerk or his or her designee and shall be directed to the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 11-9; Code 2004, § 30-9)
Sec. 14-10. - Malicious prosecution.
Whenever the judge of the municipal court, after a fair and full trial, is satisfied that any case was frivolously or maliciously prosecuted, he shall assess the prosecution with the court costs and such punitive damages as he deems appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 11-10; Code 2004, § 30-10)
Sec. 14-11. - Record of cases.
A record of all cases heard in the municipal court for violation of this Code or other municipal ordinances shall be kept in a suitable bound volume by the City Clerk or his or her designee. Such record shall contain the name of the defendant, the nature of the offense charged, the final disposition of the case, and the date of the final disposition.
(Prior Code, § 11-11; Code 2004, § 30-11)
