ARTICLE V. - JUDICIAL BRANCH

Sec. 5.10. - Municipal court.
There shall be a municipal court of the city.
Sec. 5.11. - Judges.
(a)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge and such part-time, full-time, or standby judges as shall be provided by the city commission. The method of selection and terms of such judges shall be as provided by the city commission.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the municipal court unless he or she shall have attained the age of 21 years and shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia. All judges shall be appointed by the city commission.
(c)
The compensation of the judge or judges shall be fixed by the city commission.
(d)
The judge or judges may be removed for cause by a majority vote of the city commission.
(e)
Before assuming office, each judge shall take an oath, administered by the chairperson of the city commission, that he or she will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his or her office to the best of his or her ability and without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the journal of the city commission.
(f)
Whenever no judge of the city can be in attendance in the municipal court for any reason, a person having the qualifications of a judge of the municipal court shall be appointed as provided by the city commission to preside in the court, and his or her acts therein shall be as binding as those of a regular judge of the court.
Sec. 5.12. - Convening of court.
The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals or when necessary.
Sec. 5.13. - Powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violations of this charter, all city ordinances, and such other violations as may be provided by law.
(b)
The municipal court shall have the authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed the maximum penalty provided by state law.
(c)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding the maximum fine and imprisonment as provided by state law.
(d)
The municipal court shall have the authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the costs of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the actual cost of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violation of state law.
(e)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before the court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as a surety bond for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for his or her appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, his or her bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time and an execution shall be issued thereon by serving the defendant and his or her sureties with a rule nisi at least two days before a hearing on the rule nisi.
(f)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments, and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(g)
The municipal court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that any statute has been violated.
(h)
Each judge of the municipal court may compel the presence of all persons necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summonses, subpoenas, and warrants, which may be served or executed by any officer as authorized by this charter or by law.
(i)
The judge or judges of the municipal court shall be authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged with offenses against any ordinance of the city, and each judge of the municipal court shall have the same authority as a magistrate of the state to issue warrants for offenses against state laws committed within the city.
(j)
The municipal court is specifically vested with all the jurisdiction and powers throughout the geographic area of this city granted by law to municipal courts and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances and the prosecution of traffic violations.
Sec. 5.14. - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases and ordinance violation cases, and such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of a judge of the Superior Court of Gwinnett County under the laws of the State of Georgia regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
Sec. 5.15. - Rules.
With the approval of the city commission, the judge or judges shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the city commission may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations applicable to superior courts. The rules and regulations made or adopted shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection, and, upon request, shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings at least 48 hours prior to such proceedings.
