Chapter 38 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— General powers of municipality relative to municipal road system, O.C.G.A. §§ 32-4-90 et seq., 40-6-371.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 38-1. - Adoption by reference of uniform rules of the road.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-372—40-6-374, the provisions of O.C.G.A. title 40, ch. 6 (O.C.G.A. § 40-6-1 et seq.) and the definitions contained in O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1 are hereby adopted as the traffic regulations of the city with like effect as if recited herein.
(Code 2000, § 74-1; Ord. No. 1370, § 1(a), 8-6-1990)
State Law reference— Municipal authority to adopt by reference the Georgia Uniform Rules of the Road, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-372; form of enacting ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-374.
Sec. 38-2. - Violations and penalties.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, violation of any provision of the traffic regulations of this city shall be punishable as provided in section 1-11.
Sec. 38-3. - Parental responsibility.
It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor under 16 years of age to permit, whether knowingly or through ineffective control or supervision, such minor to violate any provision of this Code or state law regarding the operation of vehicles.
(Code 2000, § 74-2)
Sec. 38-4. - Temporary traffic regulations.
In cases where traffic upon the roads of the city may become congested upon occasions of parades, at theaters, and other public assemblages where large numbers of vehicles are assembled, the chief of police may make temporary rules directing and regulating the traffic in these congested districts, and any person who, after being warned of the temporary traffic regulations, shall violate them, shall be liable therefor as for other violations of this Code.
(Code 2000, § 74-3)
Secs. 38-5—38-26. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OPERATION OF VEHICLES

Sec. 38-27. - General speed limit.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on any street or portion of a street in the city at a rate of speed greater than 30 miles per hour unless another speed limit is posted or otherwise designated for such street or portion of a street.
(Code 2000, § 74-31)
State Law reference— Speed limits, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-181.
Sec. 38-28. - Maximum speed limits on specific streets.
The city commission may alter the maximum speed limits established on any street or portion thereof within the city in accordance with the provisions of state law. Whenever signs are posted giving notice of the maximum legal speed limit so established for a particular street or portion thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any vehicle at a rate of speed in excess of such limit.
(Code 2000, § 74-32)
State Law reference— Speed limits, when municipalities may alter, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-183.
Sec. 38-29. - Traffic zones, signs and traffic control devices; traffic control map.
(a)
Upon approval of the city commission, the chief of police is authorized to designate and maintain by appropriate traffic control signs, markings, and devices:
(1)
Crosswalks at intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway.
(2)
Other safety zones for pedestrians.
(3)
Traffic lanes.
(4)
Speed, parking, truck, or other traffic control zones.
(5)
Stop, yield, one-way, and other directional devices.
(6)
Any other sign, marking, device, or zone necessary for orderly and safe conditions on the roads and streets of the city.
(b)
All traffic control signs, signals, devices, and markings shall conform to specifications in the manual on uniform traffic control devices adopted by the state transportation board. All signs and signals required under this article for a particular purpose shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the city. All traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this Code shall be official traffic control devices of the city.
(c)
The city clerk shall keep and maintain an accurate official map setting out all traffic zones, markings, signs, and other traffic control devices. The map and any amendments or changes thereto shall be adopted by the city commission and the map shall be known as the official traffic control map of the city. An official copy thereof shall be kept in the office of the city clerk; shall be available to the public; and copies certified by the city clerk shall be admissible in court as proof of the location of any traffic zone, marking, sign, or other traffic control device.
(d)
No person shall be charged with violating a traffic zone, marking, sign, or other traffic control device unless appropriate signs, markings, or devices are in fact operating or in existence on the streets involved.
(e)
Any violation of any traffic zone, marking, sign, or other traffic control device established hereunder shall be a violation of this Code.
(Code 2000, § 74-33)
State Law reference— Municipal authority for traffic control devices as necessary, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-50.
Sec. 38-30. - Speed detection devices.
(a)
The city is hereby authorized to use speed detection devices for the purpose of traffic control on the roads and streets in the city.
(b)
Such speed detection devices shall be used only for the purpose of public safety and traffic control, and shall not be used for the purpose of raising revenue.
(Code 2000, § 74-34)
Sec. 38-31. - Covering of loads.
No person shall operate or load any vehicle on the public streets and roads of the city unless the vehicle is constructed, loaded, and securely covered so as to prevent any of its load from dropping, escaping, or shifting in such a manner as to create a safety hazard or in such a manner so as to litter the streets and roads of the city.
(Code 2000, § 74-35)
State Law reference— Vehicle loads to be securely fastened, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-248.1.
Secs. 38-32—38-54. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PARKING[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Municipal authority to regulate parking, O.C.G.A. §§ 32-4-92(a)(7), 32-6-2(3), 40-6-371(a).

Sec. 38-55. - General parking restrictions.
(a)
No person shall park or stand any truck camper, camper trailer, motor home, boat, boat trailer, or other recreational vehicle or watercraft on any residential street, roadway, or highway for more than two hours at any time during the day or night.
(b)
All public parking in office, business, and commercial zoning classifications are subject to the following restrictions:
(1)
No delivery/service vehicles, and vehicles, including, but not limited to, 18-wheel tractor trailers and vehicles displaying advertising, shall be parked in front of business or commercial establishments except vehicles parked temporarily while making a delivery, providing a service, or purchasing goods or services.
(2)
No person shall park or stand any bus, truck, or other freight or passenger-carrying vehicle in excess of one-half-ton capacity upon any public street, highway, or public parking area for a period longer than one hour any time during the night or day.
(3)
No person shall stop or stand any truck or bus with a body more than eight feet (2.4384 meters) wide or 13 feet, six inches (4.145 meters) high on any street or public property, including any lot for use by the general public, without the driver or chauffer being actually present and in charge thereof.
(4)
No person shall park or stand any truck camper, camper trailer, motorhome, boat, boat trailer, or other recreational vehicle on any street, highway, public property, or public parking lot for more than one hour at any time during the day or night.
(5)
Parking of a vehicle for sale including private sale is prohibited, except in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 40-2-39.1(a), or at a dealership or lot specifically approved in the city's zoning ordinance as a car lot or dealership for the sale of vehicles. The term "private sale" means a sale by an entity or individual that is not a licensed new or used vehicle dealer.
(6)
No person shall wash, detail, grease, change the oil, or conduct mechanical repairs to any vehicle while parked on a city street, roadway, highway, or public parking area. This subsection does not include necessitated repairs by sudden emergencies, whereby the vehicle shall be safely removed or towed to a proper repair facility with all due haste and diligence.
(7)
Any vehicle in violation of this section and which remains in violation for a period of 24 hours or more shall be presumed abandoned and may be impounded by law enforcement having venue over the property.
(Res. of 9-4-2018, § 2, exh. A(74-4))
Sec. 38-56. - Parking in acceleration or deceleration lanes prohibited.
(a)
The term "acceleration or deceleration lane" means a speed-change lane, including tapered areas, or lanes consisting of added pavement at the edge of through traffic lanes which allow vehicles to accelerate or decelerate into or from through traffic lanes.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to park or stand any automobile, truck, private bus, trailer, tractor trailer combination, motorhome, motorcycle, or other motor vehicle within or upon acceleration or deceleration lanes inside the city.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle which blocks or inhibits the afforded access into any acceleration or deceleration lane.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person to temporarily park and leave unattended any motor vehicle in any acceleration or deceleration lane.
(e)
Violation of the provisions of this article shall be prosecuted in the municipal court and punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Res. of 9-4-2018, § 3, exh. A(74-5))
