Chapter 34 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal authority to construct and maintain streets and roads, including curbs, sidewalks, streetlights, and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 34-1. - Obstructions prohibited.
No person shall place any obstruction in or upon any street, alley, or sidewalk in the city, so as to impede any person or vehicle traveling thereon without the express permission of the city commission, nor shall any person obstruct or fill up any drain or ditch opened by authority of the city.
(Code 2000, § 66-1; Ord. No. 440, § 1)
State Law reference— Municipal authority to prohibit obstructions in public streets, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-10.
Sec. 34-2. - Use prohibited when guarded by warning signs or barricades.
No person shall walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon, or injure any newly laid street or sidewalk pavement while such street or sidewalk pavement is guarded by a warning sign or barricade, or knowingly injure any soft or newly lain pavement.
(Code 2000, § 66-2; Ord. No. 440, § 2)
Sec. 34-3. - Use of barricades, lights, and flares to prevent injury.
Any person laying or repairing any street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place or any pavement thereon, or making any excavation or opening in such street or sidewalk, alley, or other public place, shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury of any person or vehicle by reason of the work. In addition to barricades, lights and/or flares shall be used at night.
(Code 2000, § 66-3; Ord. No. 440, § 3)
Sec. 34-4. - Disturbance of barricades or lights.
It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere with any barricade or lights lawfully placed to protect or mark in or on any street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place, or on private property, any defect, excavation, opening, or new pavement.
(Code 2000, § 66-4; Ord. No. 440, § 4)
Sec. 34-5. - Signs and advertisements.
It shall be unlawful for any person to write upon or make any sign or advertisement upon any pavement on any street or sidewalk without the express consent of the city commission, or to erect or maintain any building or structure which encroaches upon any public street or property within the city.
(Code 2000, § 66-5; Ord. No. 440, § 5)
State Law reference— Municipal authority to regulate the erection, placement, and maintenance of certain signs, devices, and structures; authority to remove, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-51.
Sec. 34-6. - Removal or injury of trees and shrubs; attachment of signs or advertising prohibited.
No person shall cut down, remove, injure, or attach any sign or advertising to any tree or shrub planted or growing in any public place in the city without the express permission of the city commission.
(Code 2000, § 66-6; Ord. No. 440, § 6)
Sec. 34-7. - Damage or injury to public property.
(a)
No person shall damage, injure, destroy, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, equipment, building, vegetation, or property of the city.
(b)
Such individual convicted of a violation of this section shall be subject to a penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 and/or 60 days in jail. The court may also require restitution in an amount to cure or replace the subject damaged property. Nothing herein shall prohibit the city from pursuing any further relief or remedy at law.
(Code 2000, § 66-7; Ord. of 7-2-2001, § 1)
Sec. 34-8. - Regulation of skateboards, scooters, skates, and bicycles within the downtown district.
(a)
Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the orderly operation of skateboards, scooters, skates, and bicycles within the city, and to specifically prohibit their use within certain areas designated within the downtown district.
(b)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Downtown district means the downtown entertainment district, the downtown development district, the downtown development authority boundaries as prescribed by the city commission, and any other district created by the commission and generally bounded by the similar boundaries.
Operate means to ride upon, drive, propel, or otherwise convey oneself or others on skateboards, scooters, skates, and bicycles.
Skateboards, scooters, skates and bicycles mean vehicles used for the propulsion of people by human power, not subject to registration under state motor vehicles laws, including, but not limited to, bicycles, scooters, skateboards, roller skates, and roller blades. This designation does not include any device operated by a person or a person directly assisting a person who is unable to walk or otherwise ambulate without the assistance of a human-powered conveyance.
(c)
Restrictions.
(1)
Operating to endanger. No person shall operate a skateboard, scooter, skates, or bicycle so as to endanger any pedestrian on any public way or in such a manner as might discourage any pedestrian from the peaceful use of such public ways or in such a manner as to interrupt the smooth flow of automobile traffic.
(2)
Sidewalks. No person shall operate a skateboard, scooter, skates, or bicycle on any sidewalk or public walkway in the downtown district at times other than during special events created or approved by the city commission.
(3)
Area other than sidewalks. Bicycles may be operated within the downtown district as appropriate on property other than any sidewalk or public walkway.
(d)
Violations and penalties. An initial violation of this section shall result in a warning. Any subsequent violation shall be referred to juvenile court (where applicable) or shall be tried in the city's municipal court.
(Code 2000, § 66-8; Ord. of 6-5-2006; Ord. of 4-2-2007)
Secs. 34-9—34-34. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SIDEWALK SALES

Sec. 34-35. - Prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any goods, wares, merchandise, or services, or to solicit any contribution of any kind for any charitable, educational, or other purpose, while standing in or upon any public sidewalk without the express permission of the city commission or absent a special event permit which allows for the same.
(b)
Any person who violates the provisions of this section may be summoned to appear in the city municipal court and upon conviction or other finding of guilt, be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.00 per violation.
(Code 2000, § 66-9; Ord. of 9-14-2009)
Secs. 34-36—34-49. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TRAFFIC CALMING

Sec. 34-50. - Minimum requirements and standards for installation of speed humps.
(a)
Process to request installation of speed humps.
(1)
A subdivision or neighborhood association shall submit a request to the city for the installation of speed humps.
(2)
Staff will check the subject roadway classification. If the location qualifies under the roadway designation criterion, an informational packet will be sent to the applicant. A written explanation will be sent to the applicant if the location doesn't qualify based on roadway designation.
(3)
Upon receipt of the application, the city will conduct an inquiry to determine if the subject location complies with each of the selection criteria. Due to the many requests and limited staff, the inquiry may take up to four months to complete. As a minimum, staff will gather traffic speed, volume data, a site review, and a review of the automobile/traffic-related accident history. Should the inquiry reveal any area of noncompliance with the selection criteria, a written explanation shall be sent to the applicant.
(4)
If the area meets the selection criteria, the applicant will be supplied with a sketch depicting the general speed hump locations within their neighborhood, as well as an official petition and total cost for the installation. It shall be the applicant responsibility to obtain affirmative signatures from at least 90 percent of the owners fronting properties (100 percent of all applicable owners must sign the petition and the subdivision must be at least 85 percent built out). Apartments and condominiums must also have 100 percent of residents/owners sign the petition with at least 90 percent in favor of the installation.
(5)
After submission and verification of the petition, the request will go before the city commission as scheduling allows. The request must successfully complete two public hearings before the commission. Letters indicating the meeting dates, times, and location will be mailed to each applicable property owner. Should the request be denied, the applicant will be notified in writing.
(6)
If approved by the city commission, the staff will prepare the appropriate documents and announce the project out for bid per city policy. The bidding process generally takes 45 to 90 days.
(7)
When a contractor has been secured, staff will mark the locations for the humps, along with the proper associated signage and markings as to the installation.
(b)
Considerations of inquiry prior to installation of speed humps.
(1)
Roadway type. Speed humps shall only be installed on local roadways whose primary function is to provide access to abutting residential properties (subdivision roadways). Speed humps shall not be installed in front of commercial property, on major collectors, or artificial roadways.
(2)
Traffic volume. Speed humps shall only be installed on roadways with traffic volumes greater than 400 and less than 2,000 vehicles per day.
(3)
Traffic diversion. Speed humps shall not be placed on a roadway if an engineering study reveals a significant potential for traffic diversion to another residential roadway.
(4)
Roadway alignment. Speed humps shall not be installed on a roadway with severe vertical or horizontal alignments (curves). Speed humps shall be visible to oncoming motorists for a minimum of 200 feet.
(5)
Roadway grade. Speed humps shall not be installed on roadways with a grade greater than five percent (five-foot vertical rise or fall in 100 feet of roadway) in the section where humps are installed.
(6)
Roadway drainage. Speed humps shall not be installed on roadways with significant drainage problems or on roadways where speed humps will cause significant drainage problems.
(7)
Street width. Speed humps shall not be installed on roadways less than 18 feet wide or on roadways greater than 40 feet in width.
(8)
Number of lanes. Speed humps shall not be installed on roadways with more than one lane in each direction.
(9)
Road length. Speed humps shall not be installed on roadways less than 600 feet in length. The minimum length is required to provide adequate distance for the installation of advance warning signs and pavement markings.
(10)
Roadway use. Speed humps shall not be installed on designated truck or transit routes or on any roadway identified as a primary emergency route by any emergency response agency.
(11)
Speed limit. Speed humps shall not be installed on roadways with speed limits greater than 30 miles per hour as determined in accordance with state law.
(12)
Prevailing speed. The measured 85th percentile speed shall be greater than ten miles per hour above the posted limit. In no case shall speed humps be installed on a roadway where the prevailing speed exceeds 45 miles per hour.
(13)
Physical conditions. Speed humps shall not be installed adjacent to or in driveways, over underground utility access covers, or adjacent to catchbasins or drainage structures. Additionally, speed humps shall not be installed on roadways in poor condition or in need of repair. The roadway must first be repaired or resurfaced.
(14)
Other considerations. Other issues not specifically addressed herein may be reasons for denial based on further evaluation circumstances unknown at the time of the applicant request.
(c)
Payment. Payment for the full installation costs will be required from the applicant prior to any construction or installation.
(Res. of 6-3-2019, exh. A)
