ARTICLE VII. - SCHOOLS

Sec. 7.10. - School system continued.
(a)
The public school system and the board of education in operation in the city on the effective date of this charter are hereby continued under this charter. Such board shall consist of four regular members and one ex officio member. The chairperson of the city commission shall be the ex officio member, and he or she shall serve as the chairperson of the board of education.
(b)
The board of education, so continued, shall continue to have the powers, duties, rights, obligations, and liabilities of the board of education of the city that exists on the effective date of this charter and shall be subject to all constitutional and statutory provisions relating to boards of education, subject to provisions of this charter that are not in conflict therewith.
Sec. 7.11. - Board of education; qualifications, election, vacancies.
(a)
The registered voters of the city shall elect the four regular members of the board of education. At the regular city election held in 2003, the registered voters shall elect two members of such board to fill the vacancies occurring on December 31, 2003, by the expiration of the terms of two of the regular members. The members elected in such election shall take office for a term of four years on January 1 following their election and shall serve until their successors are elected and have qualified. At the regular city election held in 2005, the registered voters shall elect two members of such board to fill the vacancies occurring on December 31, 2005, by the expiration of the terms of the other two regular members. The members elected in such election shall take office for a term of four years on January 1, following their election and shall serve until their successors are elected and qualified. Thereafter, successors shall be elected at the city election that is conducted in the year in which their respective terms of office shall expire, and they shall take office on January 1, following their election and shall serve for a term of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(b)
In the event of a vacancy on the board of one of the regular members for any reason other than the expiration of a term of office, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by a special election; provided, however, unless such vacancy occurs within six months of the expiration of the term of that office such vacancy shall be filled by the ensuing regular general election.
(c)
The qualifications for the regular members of the board shall be the same as prescribed in this charter for the members of the city commission, and the members of the board shall be elected under the same rules and regulations as those governing the election of the members of the city commission.
Sec. 7.12. - Oath of office; quorum.
(a)
Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, each member of the board of education shall take and subscribe the following oath:
"I, ___________, do solemnly (swear or affirm) that I will faithfully discharge the duties devolving upon me as a member of the board of education of the City of Buford to the best of my skill and ability and in accordance with what shall to me appear for the best interest of the community and the cause of education, without fear, favor, affection, reward, or the hope thereof (so help me God)."
(b)
A majority of the members of the board of education shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
Sec. 7.13. - Organization; compensation.
(a)
The chairperson of the board of education, at the first meeting after the election of new members, as provided in this charter, shall cause the board to be organized for the ensuing year as provided in this section. The board shall elect from its number a vice-chairperson pro tempore to act in the absence or disqualification of the chairperson.
(b)
The board shall receive such compensation and expenses for their services as provided by ordinance and in accordance with general state law.
Sec. 7.14. - Secretary.
The secretary of the board of education shall keep a record of all the official acts and doings of the board, which record shall at all times be kept open to public inspection in accordance with law. The secretary shall give bond in sufficient amount, with good security, to be judged of by the board, payable to the "Board of Education of the City of Buford" for the faithful discharge of his or her duties and the safekeeping and proper disbursement of all money that may come into his or her care by reason of his or her trust as secretary. He or she shall receive all public school money from the proper authorities, receive and receipt for all incidental fees, and receive all other money that he or she may be entitled to receive. He or she shall keep a record of all money so received and paid out by him or her and take proper vouchers for all disbursements, but shall pay out no funds except by order of the board entered upon the minutes. He or she shall receive such compensation for his or her services as may be fixed by the board, which the board may contract for and pay out of the public school funds.
Sec. 7.15. - General powers and duties of board of education.
(a)
The board of education shall appoint a superintendent of schools and teachers and other officers and employees for the public schools of [the City of] Buford, fix their salaries, contract with them as such, and pay such salaries out of the money coming into the hand of the board. The board shall suspend or expel any student from attendance when a majority of the members of the board deems it to be in the best interest of the schools.
(b)
The board shall borrow money for the support and maintenance of the schools, when necessary, and shall repay such money with legal interest from the funds coming into the hands of the board.
(c)
The board shall at all times supervise, regulate and make efficient the city school system; fix the length of the school term and the opening and closing times thereof; prescribe the curriculum, textbooks, and books of reference to be used therein; and do any and all other acts, not inconsistent with the laws of this state, as may promote the system under the charge of the board.
Sec. 7.16. - Reports.
The board of education shall annually make to the city commission a written report of all money received and disbursed by the board and shall accompany such report with a full itemized statement accompanied by vouchers for all money disbursed. Such report shall be published by the city commission and shall be paid for out of the city treasury at the legal rate.
Sec. 7.17. - Establishment of schools.
The board of education shall establish such elementary and secondary schools as may be necessary for the education of the students attending such schools, free of tuition charges for all students of school age who reside in the city.
Sec. 7.18. - Nonresident students.
Nonresident students may be admitted to the schools upon such terms consistent with law as may be prescribed by the board of education. The county school superintendent of Gwinnett County or of any other county in the state may contract with the board of education whereby the city school system, for compensation consistent with law, will accept students residing outside the corporate limits of the city. Irrespective of any such contract, students who do not reside in the city may attend a public school of the city when permitted by law to do so. Such students shall pay tuition or fees, or both, to the city in amounts fixed by the board that do not exceed the maximum amounts allowed by law.
Sec. 7.19. - Census; state school fund.
The board of education of the city shall prepare and take an annual census of all the children residing in the city who are, under the law, entitled to participate in the state public school fund, and shall furnish a report of the result of such census to the state department of education on or before September 1 of each year. From such report, the state department of education shall apportion to the city its pro rata share of the state school fund based upon the result of such annual census, and shall pay over such pro rata share of the state school fund to the secretary and treasurer of the board of education of the city.
Sec. 7.20. - Ad valorem tax.
The city commission shall levy an ad valorem tax as follows: The board of education, on or before July 1 of each year, shall make an estimate of the amount necessary to be raised that year for the support of the public schools in the city, and shall place such estimate before the city commission. When the city commission approves such estimate, the commission shall, when making the annual tax levy for the current expenses of the city, levy a school tax along with the other city taxes upon all taxable property within the corporate limits of the city. The city commission may collect such school tax, or may have the tax collected by city officers, along with the other ad valorem taxes of the city in the same manner as other city taxes are levied and collected. The city commission shall have no authority to levy and collect more than the maximum taxes for school purposes allowed by the Constitution and general laws of the state.
Sec. 7.21. - Removal of board members.
The board of education and the individual members thereof shall be amenable to the city commission and may be removed from office in a hearing before the city commission for neglect of duty, for malfeasance in office, or for using their official position to advance their political or private interests. Any vacancy on the board of education shall be filled pursuant to section 7.11(b) of this charter.
Sec. 7.22. - Officers and employees.
The board of education shall, in compliance with law, appoint and fix the salaries of the superintendent of schools, teachers, and other officers and employees who may be necessary for the efficient operation of the school system for each year. In making selections for those positions, the board shall endeavor at all times to secure the best qualified, most efficient, and most highly esteemed persons available.
Sec. 7.23. - State funds.
The state school superintendent shall pay over to the board of education of the city, for the use of the city schools, under such rules and regulations as the state board of education may prescribe, the proportion of the state school fund to which the city is entitled, to be expended in the maintenance of the public schools of the city as authorized and directed by the Constitution and laws of the state.
Sec. 7.24. - Reports.
The board of education shall make reports to the city commission, at such times as the board may be called upon to do so, of all matters pertaining to the public schools. The books, papers, bills, and vouchers of the board of education shall, at all times, as required by law, be open to inspection and examination by the city commission or such other agency as the commission may employ for that purpose.
Sec. 7.25. - Ordinances and resolutions.
The city commission may adopt such ordinances and resolutions, not in conflict with this charter, as the commission may deem for the best interest of the public schools, and may further define the duties of the board of education.
