Chapter 14 - CABLE COMMUNICATIONS AND WIRELESS FACILITIES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE FOR USE OF STREETS AND ROADS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Consumer Choice for Television Act., O.C.G.A. § 36-76-1 et seq.

Sec. 14-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Cable services means the same as that term is defined in the Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984 and the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 ("The 1992 Cable Act"), and as may be further amended from time to time. If the term "cable services" is no longer defined in the 1992 Cable Act, or the definition in the 1992 Cable Act otherwise becomes inapplicable, the term "cable services" means cable services that term is as defined in the 1992 Cable Act immediately prior to such term no longer being defined in the 1992 Cable Act or such definition otherwise becoming inapplicable.
Cable system means the same as that term is defined in the 1992 Cable Act.
Franchise means an initial authorization or renewal thereof, issued by the city, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit, license, resolution, contract, certificate, agreement, or otherwise, which authorizes the occupation and use of the streets to provide telecommunications services.
Grantee means the legal entity to which is granted the right, authority, and responsibility to construct, install, operate, and maintain a system of equipment as necessary to furnish, supply, and distribute cable or telecommunications services or both, to inhabitants within the franchise area.
Person means any individual or any association, firm, partnership, joint venture, corporation, or other legally recognized entity, whether for profit or not for profit, but does not mean the city.
Streets means the surface of, as well as the spaces above and below, any and all streets, alleyways, avenues, highways, boulevards, driveways, bridges, tunnels, parks, parkways, public grounds or waters, and other public rights-of-way within or belonging to the city.
Telecommunications services means the receipt and/or distribution, through any means, including, without limitation, coaxial cable, optical fiber, or satellite or microwave transmission, of one or more audio, voice, or data signals. The term "telecommunications services" includes both cable services and noncable telecommunications services.
(Code 2000, § 26-31; Ord. No. 1224, § 1(2.1), 11-6-1995)
Sec. 14-20. - Granting authority.
(a)
No person shall provide cable services or operate a cable system without a franchise granted in accordance with the provisions of this article and no person shall use or occupy the streets to provide any telecommunications service other than cable services without a franchise granted in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(b)
The city commission may grant one or more franchises in accordance with this article, provided that the city commission reserves the right to modify any provision of this article by amendment hereof.
(c)
The grant of any franchise shall be made by adoption of a separate ordinance by the city commission and/or a franchise agreement between the city and the franchisee, and shall be on such terms and conditions as may be specified therein.
(d)
Any franchise granted shall be nonexclusive. The city specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, such additional franchises as it deems appropriate and or itself engage in the provision of telecommunications services.
(e)
A franchise may be granted for all or any defined portion of the city and for all or less than all telecommunications services, and for telecommunications services for all or less than all purposes.
(f)
The grant of franchises by the city shall be subject to the provisions of applicable law, including the 1992 Cable Act, governing cable television franchises and renewals thereof.
(Code 2000, § 26-32; Ord. No. 1224, § 1(3.1), 11-6-1995)
Sec. 14-21. - Franchise applications.
(a)
Submission of application; terms and conditions. Applications for franchises shall be submitted in such form and be issued on such terms and conditions as the city commission may determine, subject to applicable law.
(b)
Contents of application. Any application for a franchise shall contain and/or require the following information with respect to the proposed franchise and such other information as the city commission shall deem necessary or appropriate:
(1)
Applicant's name, address, telephone number, and federal employer identification number or Social Security number; copy of applicant's corporate charter or partnership agreement as applicable; and any trade names and registrations used by applicant;
(2)
A detailed statement of the corporation or business entity organization of the applicant, including, but not limited to, the following, and to whatever extent required by the city:
a.
The names and the residence and business addresses of all officers and directors of the applicant;
b.
The names and residence and business addresses of all persons and entities having any share of the ownership of the applicant and the respective ownership share of each person or entity;
c.
The names and address of any parent or subsidiary of the applicant; namely, any other business entity owning or controlling applicant in whole or in part or owned or controlled in whole or in part by the applicant; and a statement describing the nature of any such parent or subsidiary business entity, including, but not limited to, telecommunications or cable systems owned or controlled by the applicant, its parent, and subsidiary, and the areas served thereby;
d.
A detailed and complete financial statement of the applicant, certified by an independent certified public accountant, for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of the application hereunder, or a letter or other acceptable evidence in writing from a recognized lending institution or funding source, addressed to both the applicant and the city commission, setting forth the basis for a study performed by such lending institution or funding source, and a clear statement of its intent as a lending institution or funding source to provide whatever capital shall be required by the applicant to construct and operate the proposed telecommunications or cable system in the city, or a statement from an independent certified public accountant certifying that the applicant has available sufficient free, net, and uncommitted cash resources to construct and operate the proposed cable or telecommunications system in the city;
e.
A detailed financial plan (pro forma) describing for each year of the franchise, projected number of subscribers, rates, all revenues, operating expenses, capital expenditures, depreciation schedules, income statements, and a sources and uses of funds statement; and
f.
A statement identifying by place and date, any other cable system or telecommunication franchise awarded to the applicant, its parent, or subsidiary; the status of such franchise with respect to completion thereof; the total cost of completion of such franchised cable or telecommunication system; and the amount of applicant's and its parent's or subsidiary's resources committed to the completion thereof;
(3)
A detailed description of the proposed plan of operation of the applicant which shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
a.
A description of the cable services and any other telecommunications services proposed to be provided;
b.
A detailed map indicating all areas proposed to be served, and a proposed time schedule for the installation of all equipment necessary to become operational throughout the entire area to be serviced;
c.
A statement or schedule setting forth all proposed classifications or rates and charges to be made against subscribers and all rates and charges as to each of such classifications, including installation charges, cable service charges, and any other telecommunications service charges;
d.
A detailed, informative, and referenced statement describing the actual equipment and operational standards proposed by the applicant;
e.
A copy of the form of any agreement, undertaking, or other instrument proposed to be entered into between the applicant and any subscriber to cable or telecommunications services; and
f.
A detailed statement setting forth in its entirety any and all agreements and undertakings, whether formal or informal, written, oral, or implied, existing or proposed to exist between the applicant and any person, firm, or corporation which materially relate or pertain to or depend upon the application and the granting of the franchise;
(4)
A copy of any agreement covering the franchise area if existing between the applicant and any utility providing for the use of any facilities of the utility, including, but not limited to, poles, lines, or conduits; and
(5)
Any other details, statements, supplementary information, or references pertinent to the subject matter of such application which shall be required or requested by the city commission, or by any other provision of law.
(c)
Nonrefundable application fees for new franchises. No application for a new franchise shall be considered without payment by the applicant of application fees as provided in this section. If a franchise is granted, application fees will not be deemed a credit towards any other fees or sums due by the grantee. If an application is denied, the application fee will not be refunded.
(1)
Purpose of application fees. The application fees provided by this section will serve to cover the direct and indirect costs incurred by the city in processing the application, evaluating the applicant, and granting a franchise, and shall include, but not be limited to, administrative, engineering, publication, legal, and consultant's expenses.
(2)
Fee amount. The applicant will be expected to pay the reasonable costs of the city in evaluating the application. Notwithstanding any other requirement of this article, each applicant must furnish with its proposal a nonrefundable application fee in the amount as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk by certified check or cashier's check made payable to the city.
(Code 2000, § 26-33; Ord. No. 1224, § 1(3.2), 11-6-1995)
Sec. 14-22. - Responsibilities of applicants.
It shall be the responsibility of each applicant for a franchise to comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations, and other directives of the city and any federal, state, or local governmental authority having jurisdiction.
(Code 2000, § 26-34; Ord. No. 1224, § 1(3.3), 11-6-1995)
Sec. 14-23. - Public availability of applications.
To the extent determined by the city commission, applications for franchises, including any additions, modifications, or amendments thereto, shall be available for public inspection at a designated city office during normal business hours.
(Code 2000, § 26-35; Ord. No. 1224, § 1(3.4), 11-6-1995)
Sec. 14-24. - Evaluation criteria.
In making any determination under this article as to any application for a franchise, the city commission may consider such factors as it deems appropriate and in the public interest, including, without limitation:
(1)
The adequacy of the proposed compensation to be paid to the city, including the value of any facilities and telecommunications services offered by the applicant to the city;
(2)
The legal, financial, technical, and other appropriate qualifications of the applicant;
(3)
The ability of the applicant to maintain the property of the city in good condition throughout the term of the franchise;
(4)
The value and efficiency to the city and its residents of the cable services and other telecommunications services to be provided, including the type thereof, as well as alternatives to those services, and services that may be precluded by the grant of the franchise;
(5)
The willingness and ability of the applicant to meet construction and physical requirements and to abide by all purpose and policy conditions, limitations, and requirements with respect to the franchise; and
(6)
Any other public interest factors or considerations deemed pertinent by the city for safeguarding the interests of the city and the public.
(Code 2000, § 26-36; Ord. No. 1224, § 1(3.5), 11-6-1995)
Sec. 14-25. - Procedure for consideration of and action on applications.
(a)
The city may make such investigations and take or authorize the taking of such other steps as the city commission deems necessary or appropriate to consider and act on applications for franchises and determine whether a franchise should be granted to an applicant, and may require the applicant to furnish additional information and data for this purpose. In considering applications, the city commission may seek advice from other city officials or bodies, from such other advisory bodies as it may establish or determine appropriate, or from the public, and may request the preparation of one or more reports to be submitted to the city commission, which may include recommendations with respect to such applications.
(b)
If the city commission, after considering such information as it determines to be appropriate, elects to further consider one or more applications, the city commission shall set one or more public hearings for consideration of the application, setting forth a day, hour, and place certain when and where any persons having any interest therein or objections thereto may file written comments and appear before the city commission and be heard, and providing notice of such public hearing in accordance with applicable law.
(c)
The city commission may authorize negotiations between city officials and applicants to determine whether the city and such applicants are able to reach agreement on the terms of the proposed franchise.
(d)
Upon completion of the steps deemed appropriate by the city commission, the city commission may grant the franchise, and may specify the conditions under which the franchise is granted. Alternatively, the city may reject any and all applications from whatever source and whenever received except that a franchising authority may not grant an exclusive franchise and may not unreasonably refuse to award an additional competitive franchise. The city also reserves the right to waive any or all requirements when it determines that the best interests of the city may be served thereby and may, if it so desires, request new or additional proposals.
(Code 2000, § 26-37; Ord. No. 1224, § 1(3.6), 11-6-1995)
Sec. 14-26. - Terms and conditions of franchise.
The terms and conditions applicable to any franchise granted pursuant to this article shall be set forth in the separate ordinance granting the franchise or in a separate written agreement. Such separate ordinance or written agreement, among other things, shall address the following subjects:
(1)
The term of the franchise;
(2)
The franchise area and the cable services and other telecommunications services and purposes of such other telecommunications services, if any, which are the subject of the franchise;
(3)
The compensation to be paid to the city, which may include the payment of fees or the provision of facilities or services, or both;
(4)
The circumstances upon which the franchise may be terminated or canceled;
(5)
The mechanisms, such as performance bonds, security funds, or letters of credit, to be put in place to ensure the performance of the franchisee's obligations under the franchise;
(6)
The city's right to inspect the facilities and records of the franchisee;
(7)
Insurance and indemnification requirements applicable to the franchisee;
(8)
The obligation of the franchisee to maintain complete and accurate books of account and records, and the city's inspection rights with respect thereto;
(9)
Provisions to ensure quality workmanship and construction methods;
(10)
Provisions to ensure that the franchisee will comply with all applicable city, state, and federal laws, regulations, rules, and policies, including, without limitation, those related to employment, purchasing, and investigations;
(11)
Provisions to ensure adequate oversight and regulation of the franchisee by the city;
(12)
Provisions to restrict the assignment or other transfer of the franchise without the prior written consent of the city;
(13)
Remedies available to the city to protect the city's interest in the event of the franchisee's failure to comply with terms and conditions of the franchise;
(14)
Provisions to ensure that the franchisee will obtain all necessary licenses and permits from, and comply with, all laws, regulations, rules, and policies of any governmental body having jurisdiction over the franchisee, including the Federal Communications Commission;
(15)
Provisions to ensure that the franchisee will protect the property of the city and the delivery of public services from damage or interruption of operations resulting from the construction, operation, maintenance, repair, or removal of improvements related to the franchise;
(16)
Provisions designed to minimize the extent to which the public use of the streets of the city are disrupted in connection with the construction of improvements relating to the franchise; and
(17)
Such other provisions as the city determines are necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the public interest.
(Code 2000, § 26-38; Ord. No. 1224, § 1(3.7), 11-6-1995)
Secs. 14-27—14-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - WIRELESS FACILITIES AND ANTENNAS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 14-56. - Authorization.
The provisions of O.C.G.A. § 32-4-92(a)(10) authorizes the city to establish reasonable regulations for the installation, construction, maintenance, renewal, removal, and relocation of pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, towers, traffic, and other signals, and other equipment, facilities, or appliances in, on, along, over, or under the public roads of the city. Further, 47 USC 253(c) provides that the city has authority to manage its public rights-of-way. Finally, the Georgia Streamlining Wireless Facilities and Antennas Act (SWFAA), O.C.G.A. title 36, ch. 66C (O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-1 et seq.), addresses the placement of small wireless facilities in the public rights-of-way of the city.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-201.1)
Sec. 14-57. - Purpose.
The city finds it is in the best interest of the city and its residents and businesses to establish requirements and specify reasonable conditions regarding placement of small wireless facilities and poles in the public rights-of-way. These requirements, specifications, and conditions are adopted in order to protect the public health, safety, and welfare of the residents and businesses of the city and to reasonably manage and protect the public rights-of-way and their uses in the city.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-201.2)
Sec. 14-58. - Objective.
The objective of this article is to implement the SWFAA and ensure use of the public rights-of-way is consistent with the design, appearance, and other features of nearby land uses, protects the integrity of historic, cultural, and scenic resources and does not harm residents' quality of life.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-201.3)
Sec. 14-59. - Definitions.
Unless defined below, terms used in this article shall have the meanings given them in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-2. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Antenna means:
(1)
Communications equipment that transmits, receives, or transmits and receives electromagnetic radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services or other wireless communications; or
(2)
Communications equipment similar to equipment described in subsection (1) of this definition used for the transmission, reception, or transmission and reception of surface waves. The term "antenna" does not include television broadcast antennas, antennas designed for amateur radio use, or satellite dishes for residential or household purposes.
Applicant means any person that submits an application.
Application means a written request submitted by an applicant to the city for a permit to:
(1)
Collocate a small wireless facility in a right-of-way; or
(2)
Install, modify, or replace a pole or decorative pole in a right-of-way on which a small wireless facility is or will be located.
Authority pole means a pole owned, managed, or operated by or on behalf of the city, but shall not include poles, support structures, electric transmission structures, or equipment of any type owned by the city in its capacity as an electric supplier.
Collocate or collocation means to install, mount, modify, or replace a small wireless facility on or adjacent to a pole, decorative pole, or support structure.
Communications facility means the set of equipment and network components, including wires and cables and associated equipment and network components, used by a communications service provider to provide communications services.
Communications service provider means a provider of communications services.
Communications services means cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6); telecommunications service as defined in 47 USC 153(53); information service as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as each such term existed on January 1, 2019; or wireless services, as defined in this section.
Consolidated application means an application for the collocation of multiple small wireless facilities on existing poles or support structures or for the installation, modification, or replacement of multiple poles and the collocation of associated small wireless facilities.
Decorative pole means an authority pole that is specially designed and placed for aesthetic purposes.
Electric supplier means any electric light and power company subject to regulation by the state public service commission, any electric membership corporation furnishing retail service in the state, and any municipality which furnishes such service within the state. The city is an electric supplier and this article is inapplicable in all respects to city electric system facilities.
Eligible facilities request means an eligible facilities request as set forth in 47 CFR 1.40001, as it existed on January 1, 2019.
FCC means the Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
Historic district means:
(1)
Any district, site, building, structure, or object included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National Register of Historic Places maintained by the secretary of the interior of the United States in accordance with the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified by 47 CFR part 1;
(2)
Any area designated as a historic district under O.C.G.A. title 44, ch. 10, art. 2 (O.C.G.A. § 44-10-20 et seq.), the Georgia Historic Preservation Act; or
(3)
Any area designated as a historic district or property by law prior to April 26, 2019.
Law means and includes any and all federal, state, or local laws, statutes, common laws, codes, rules, regulations, orders, or ordinances.
Micro wireless facility means a small wireless facility, not larger in dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
Permit means a written authorization, in electronic or hard copy format, required to be issued by the city to initiate, continue, or complete the collocation of a small wireless facility or the installation, modification, or replacement of a pole or decorative pole upon which a small wireless facility is collocated.
Person means an individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, trust, or other entity or organization, including an authority.
Pole means a vertical pole such as a utility, lighting, traffic, or similar pole made of wood, concrete, metal, or other material that is lawfully located or to be located within a right-of-way, including, without limitation, a replacement pole and an authority pole. The term "pole" does not include a support structure, decorative pole, or electric transmission structure.
Rate means a recurring charge.
Reconditioning work means the activities associated with substantially painting, reconditioning, improving, or repairing authority poles.
Replace, replacement, or replacing means to replace a pole or decorative pole with a new pole or a new decorative pole, similar in design, size, and scale to the existing pole or decorative pole consistent with 47 CFR 1.40001(b)(7) as it existed on January 1, 2019, in order to address limitations of, or change in the requirements applicable to, the existing pole to structurally support the collocation of a small wireless facility.
Replacement work means the activities associated with replacing an authority pole.
Right-of-way means, generally, property or any interest therein, whether or not in the form of a strip, which is acquired for or devoted to a public road; provided, however, that the term "right-of-way" shall apply only to property or an interest therein that is under the ownership or control of the city and shall not include property or any interest therein acquired for or devoted to an interstate highway or the public rights, structures, sidewalks, facilities, and appurtenances of buildings for public equipment and personnel used for or engaged in administration, construction, or maintenance of public roads or research pertaining thereto; or scenic easements and easements of light, air, view and access.
Small wireless facility means radio transceivers; surface wave couplers; antennas; coaxial, fiber optic, or other cabling; power supply; backup batteries; and comparable and associated equipment, regardless of technological configuration, at a fixed location or fixed locations that enable communication or surface wave communication between user equipment and a communications network and that meet both of the following qualifications:
(1)
Each wireless provider's antenna could fit within an enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume; and
(2)
All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 28 cubic feet in volume, measured based upon the exterior dimensions of height by width by depth of any enclosure that may be used.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of the volume of all other wireless equipment associated with any such facility: electric meters; concealment elements; telecommunications demarcation boxes; grounding equipment; power transfer switches; cut-off switches; and vertical cable runs for connection of power and other services. The term "small wireless facility" does not include a pole, decorative pole, or support structure on, under, or within which the equipment is located or collocated or to which the equipment is attached and shall not include any wireline backhaul facilities or coaxial, fiber optic, or other cabling that is between small wireless facilities, poles, decorative poles, or support structures or that is not otherwise immediately adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna.
Support structure means a building, billboard, water tank, or any other structure to which a small wireless facility is or may be attached. The term "support structure" does not include a decorative pole, electric transmission structure, or pole.
Wireless infrastructure provider means any person, including a person authorized to provide telecommunications services in the state, that builds, installs, or operates small wireless facilities, poles, decorative poles, or support structures on which small wireless facilities are or are intended to be used for collocation but that is not a wireless services provider.
Wireless provider means a wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services provider.
Wireless services means any services provided to the public using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, including the use of wi-fi, whether at a fixed location or mobile.
Wireless services provider means a person that provides wireless services.
Wireline backhaul facility means an aboveground or underground wireline facility used to transport communications data from a telecommunications demarcation box associated with small wireless facility to a network.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-202.1)
Sec. 14-60. - Amendment to definitions.
In the event that any federal or state law containing definitions used in this article is amended, the definition in the referenced section, as amended, shall control.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-202.2)
Secs. 14-61—14-78. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMITS

Sec. 14-79. - Permit required.
A permit is required to collocate a small wireless facility in the public right-of-way or to install, modify, or replace a pole or a decorative pole in the public right-of-way. A permit is not required to perform the activities described in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-6(e) or (f).
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-203.1)
Sec. 14-80. - Application.
Any person seeking to collocate a small wireless facility in the public right-of-way or to install, modify, or replace a pole or a decorative pole in the public right-of-way shall submit an application to the city manager for a permit. Applications are available from the city manager. Any material change to information contained in an application shall be submitted in writing to the city manager within 30 days after the events necessitating the change.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-203.2)
Sec. 14-81. - Application fees.
Each application for a permit shall include the maximum application fees permitted under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(3). Such maximum application fees shall automatically increase on January 1 of each year, as provided under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(b).
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-203.3)
Sec. 14-82. - Review.
The city manager shall review applications for permits according to the timelines and using the procedures identified in O.C.G.A. §§ 36-66C-7 and 36-66C-13.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-203.4)
Sec. 14-83. - Approval and denial.
Applications for permits shall be approved except as follows:
(1)
In order to receive a permit to install a pole or replace a decorative pole, the applicant must have determined after diligent investigation that it cannot meet the service objectives of the permit by collocating on an existing pole or support structure on which the applicant has the right to collocate subject to reasonable terms and conditions and such collocation would not impose technical limitations or significant additional costs. The applicant shall certify that it has made such a determination in good faith, based on the assessment of a licensed engineer, and shall provide a written summary of the basis for such determination.
(2)
The city manager may deny an application for a permit upon any of the conditions identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(j).
(3)
For applications for new poles in the public right-of-way in areas zoned for residential use, the city manager may propose an alternate location in the public right-of-way within 100 feet of the location set forth in the application, and the wireless provider shall use the city manager's proposed alternate location unless the location imposes technical limits or significant additional costs. The wireless provider shall certify that it has made such a determination in good faith, based on the assessment of a licensed engineer, and it shall provide a written summary of the basis for such determination.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-203.5)
Sec. 14-84. - Limitations.
A permit issued under this article shall authorize such person to occupy the public rights-of-way to:
(1)
Collocate a small wireless facility on or adjacent to a pole or a support structure that does not exceed the limitations set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h)(3) or on or adjacent to a decorative pole in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-12; and
(2)
Install, modify, or replace a pole or decorative pole for collocation of a small wireless facility that does not exceed the limitations set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h)(1) and (h)(2).
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-203.6)
Sec. 14-85. - Annual rates.
Upon the issuance of a permit under this article, and on each anniversary of such issuance, every person issued a permit shall submit to the city the maximum annual payments permitted under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(a)(4) and (a)(5); provided, however, that if such person removes its small wireless facilities from the public rights-of-way pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(e), then such person shall be responsible for the pro rata portion of the annual payment based on the number of days of occupation since the last annual payment. Upon making such pro rata payment and removal of the small wireless facilities, the person's annual payment obligations under this section shall cease as of the date of the actual removal. The maximum annual payments shall automatically increase on January 1 of each year, as provided under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(b).
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-203.7)
Sec. 14-86. - Additional charges.
Any person issued a permit shall pay the fees identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(a)(6) and (a)(7), as applicable.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-203.8)
Sec. 14-87. - Revocation.
The city may revoke a permit issued pursuant to this article if the wireless provider or its equipment placed in the public right-of-way under that permit subsequently is not in compliance with any provision of this article or the Georgia Streamlining Wireless Facilities and Antennas Act (O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-1 et seq.). Upon revocation, the city may proceed according to section 14-88.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-203.9)
Sec. 14-88. - Compliance, enforcement, and penalties.
If a wireless provider occupies the public rights-of-way without obtaining a permit required by this article or without complying with the SWFAA, then the city, at its sole discretion, may restore the right-of-way to the extent practicable in the reasonable judgment of the city to its condition prior to the unpermitted collocation or installation and to charge the responsible wireless provider the reasonable, documented cost of the city in doing so, plus a penalty not to exceed $1,000.00. The city may suspend the ability of the wireless provider to receive any new permits from the city under this article until the wireless provider has paid the amount assessed for such restoration costs and the penalty assessed, if any; provided, however, that the city may not suspend such ability of any applicant that has deposited the amount in controversy in escrow pending an adjudication of the merits of the dispute by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-203.10)
State Law reference— Penalties for failure to comply, O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-6(b).
Sec. 14-89. - Public access.
All accepted applications for permits shall be publicly available subject to the limitations identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-6(c).
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-203.11)
Sec. 14-90. - Consolidated application.
An applicant may file a consolidated application related to multiple small wireless facilities, poles, or decorative poles so long as such consolidated application meets the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-13.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-203.12)
Sec. 14-91. - Timelines.
Activities authorized under a permit shall be completed within the timelines provided in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(k)(2).
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-203.13)
Sec. 14-92. - Authorized activities.
Issuance of a permit authorizes the applicant to undertake the collocation, installation, modification, or replacement approved by the permit and operate and maintain the small wireless facilities and any associated pole covered by the permit for a period of ten years.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-203.14)
Sec. 14-93. - Renewal.
Permits shall be renewed following the expiration of the term identified in section 14-92 upon the terms and conditions identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(k)(2)(B).
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-203.15)
Sec. 14-94. - Make-ready work.
If an application for a permit seeks to collocate small wireless facilities on authority poles in the public rights-of-way, then the city shall, within 60 days of receipt of the completed application:
(1)
Provide a good faith estimate for any make-ready work necessary to enable the authority pole to support the proposed facility; or
(2)
Notify the wireless provider that the wireless provider will be required to perform the make-ready work. Any make-ready work performed by the city shall be completed pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(n).
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-203.16)
Secs. 14-95—14-116. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - STANDARDS

Sec. 14-117. - Conditions.
(a)
Small wireless facilities and new, modified, or replacement poles to be used for collocation of small wireless facilities may be placed in the public right-of-way as a permitted use:
(1)
Upon a receipt of a permit under this article;
(2)
Subject to applicable codes; and
(3)
So long as such small wireless facilities and new, modified, or replacement poles to be used for collocation of small wireless facilities comply with the appropriate provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h).
(b)
Each new, modified, or replacement pole installed in the right-of-way that is not in a historic district or in an area zoned primarily for residential use shall not exceed the greater of:
(1)
50 feet above ground level; or
(2)
Ten feet greater in height above ground level than the tallest existing pole in the same public right-of-way in place as of January 1, 2019, and located within 500 feet of the new proposed pole.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-205.1)
Sec. 14-118. - Location.
A decorative pole should only be located where an existing pole can be removed and replaced, or at a new location where the city has identified that a streetlight is necessary.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-205.2)
Sec. 14-119. - Visual requirements.
Unless it is determined that another design is less intrusive, or placement is required under applicable law, small wireless facilities shall be concealed as follows:
(1)
Antennas located at the top of poles and support structures shall be incorporated into the pole or support structure, or placed within shrouds of a size such that the antenna appears to be part of the pole or support structure.
(2)
Antennas placed elsewhere on a pole or support structure shall be integrated into the pole or support structure, or be designed and placed to minimize visual impacts.
(3)
Radio units or equipment cabinets holding radio units and mounted on a pole shall be placed as high as possible, located to avoid interfering with, or creating any hazard to, any other use of the public rights-of-way, and located on one side of the pole. Unless the radio units or equipment cabinets can be concealed by appropriate traffic signage, radio units or equipment cabinets mounted below the communications space on poles shall be designed so that the largest dimension is vertical, and the width is such that the radio units or equipment cabinets are minimally visible from the opposite side of the pole on which they are placed.
(4)
Wiring and cabling shall be neat and concealed within or flush to the pole or support structure, ensuring concealment of these components to the greatest extent possible.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-205.3)
Sec. 14-120. - Historic districts.
Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary, an applicant may collocate a small wireless facility within a historic district, and may place or replace a pole within a historic district, only upon satisfaction of the following:
(1)
Issuance of a permit under this article; and
(2)
Compliance with applicable codes.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-205.4)
Sec. 14-121. - Decorative poles.
Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary, an applicant may collocate a small wireless facility on a decorative pole, or may replace a decorative pole with a new decorative pole, in the event the existing decorative pole will not structurally support the attachment, only upon satisfaction of the following:
(1)
Issuance of a permit under this article; and
(2)
Compliance with applicable codes.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-205.5)
Sec. 14-122. - City electric system facilities exempted.
Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary, this article is not applicable to city electric system facilities.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-206)
Secs. 14-123—14-142. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - REMOVAL; RESTORATION; RELOCATION; RECONDITIONING AND REPLACEMENT; ABANDONMENT

Sec. 14-143. - Removal.
A person may remove his/her small wireless facilities from the public rights-of-way according to the procedures of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(e).
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-204.1)
Sec. 14-144. - Restoration of right-of-way.
In the event of a removal under section 14-143, the right-of-way shall be, to the extent practicable in the reasonable judgment of the city, restored to its condition prior to the removal. If a person fails to return the right-of-way to the extent practicable in the reasonable judgment of the city, to its condition prior to the removal within 90 days of the removal, the city may, at its sole discretion, restore the right-of-way to such condition and charge the person the city's reasonable, documented cost of removal and restoration, plus a penalty not to exceed $500.00. The city may suspend the ability of the person to receive any new permits under this article until the person has paid the amount assessed for such restoration costs and the penalty assessed, if any; provided, however, that the city will not suspend such ability of any person that has deposited the amount in controversy in escrow pending an adjudication of the merits of the dispute by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-204.2)
Sec. 14-145. - Relocation.
If, in the reasonable exercise of police powers, the city determines a pole or support structure unreasonably interferes with the widening, repair, reconstruction, or relocation of a public road or highway, or relocation of poles, support structures, or small wireless facilities is required as a result of a public project, the wireless provider shall relocate such poles, support structures, or small wireless facilities pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(1). If the wireless provider fails to relocate a pole, support structure, or small wireless facility or fails to provide a written good faith estimate of the time needed to relocate the pole, support structure, or small wireless within the time period prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(1), the city make take the actions authorized by O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(o), in addition to any other powers under applicable law.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-204.3)
Sec. 14-146. - Reconditioning and replacement.
The city shall recondition and replace authority poles consistent with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(m). Wireless providers shall accommodate and cooperate with reconditioning and replacement consistent with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(m).
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-204.4)
Sec. 14-147. - Abandonment.
A wireless provider must notify the city of its decision to abandon any small wireless facility, support structure, or pole pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(p)(1). The wireless provider shall perform all acts and duties identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(p) regarding abandonment. The city may take all actions and exercise all powers authorized under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(p) upon abandonment, in addition to any other powers under applicable law.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(1), § 8-6-204.5)
Secs. 14-148—14-177. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - ELECTRICAL POLE ATTACHMENTS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 14-178. - City as electrical supplier.
The city is an electrical supplier, under the Georgia Territorial Electric Service Act, O.C.G.A. title 46, ch. 3, art. 1 (O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.). As such, the city installs, maintains, and operates poles, wires, towers, transformers, and other equipment for the supply and distribution of electrical power (electrical facilities).
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(2), § 8.3)
Sec. 14-179. - Purpose and objective.
The objective of this article is to provide for the reasonable attachment of any equipment (as defined in section 14-181) to electric facilities in the city and to ensure the safe use and operation of electrical facilities consistent with the national standards and efficient utility operations.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(2), § 8.5)
Sec. 14-180. - Requirements, specifications, and conditions.
The city finds it is in the best interest of the city, its residents and businesses, and electric service customers to establish requirements, specifications, and reasonable conditions regarding the attachment to or colocation on electrical facilities. These requirements, specifications, and conditions are adopted in order to protect the public health, safety, and welfare of the residents and businesses of the city, and to reasonably manage and protect the city's electrical facilities.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(2), § 8.4)
Sec. 14-181. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Attachment means any equipment attached to a pole, including, but not limited to, brackets, cables, service drops, power supplies, amplifiers, pedestals, bonding wires, overlashings, guy wires and anchors required to support unbalanced loads. A single attachment includes the vertical space consisting of a total of 12 inches either above or below, but not both, the bolted attachment, exclusive of riser or conduit.
Make-ready means all work necessary or appropriate to make space for or otherwise accommodate new, additional or changed attachments, including, but not limited to, necessary or appropriate rearrangements, removal and replacement of the pole, transfers and other work incident thereto.
Make-ready costs means all costs necessary for the city, and other existing parties on the applicable pole, to prepare the poles for a provider's new, additional or modified attachments, including, but not limited to, the costs of materials, labor, engineering, supervision, overheads, and tree trimming costs. For purposes of this definition, the term "engineering" includes design, proper conductor spacing and bonding, calculations to determine proper ground clearances and pole down guy and anchor strength requirements for horizontal and transverse loading, and compliance with all applicable requirements. Also included among make-ready costs are the costs of installing or changing out primary poles, secondary poles and drop and lift poles, including the cost of installation and/or removal of guys, anchors, stub poles, materials and equipment, temporary construction and all other construction in accordance with the technical requirements and specifications as required by the city. City make-ready costs shall be verifiably comparable to the cost the city pays for similar make-ready work to its own facilities.
Pole means a wooden, concrete or steel structure owned, controlled, or otherwise operated by the city to support distribution lines and related facilities of the city, including drop, lift, light poles and streetlight poles that do not support distribution lines and related facilities.
Unauthorized attachment means any affixation of any provider attachment to the city poles, which has not been authorized as required by this article.
Unauthorized attachment fee means the fee to be paid by a provider for each unauthorized attachment.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(2), § 8.6)
Sec. 14-182. - Authorization for rates, fees, tolls, and charges.
State law, including, without limitation, the Revenue Bond Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq., authorizes the city to prescribe, revise, and collect rates, fees, tolls, or charges for the services, facilities, or commodities furnished or made available for undertakings for its own use, for the use of public and private consumers, and for users within and outside the territorial boundaries of the city.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(2), § 8.2)
Sec. 14-183. - Liens.
A lien is hereby established for the city's costs and unpaid fees and charges relating to all attachments.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(2), § 8.14)
Secs. 14-184—14-204. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - AUTHORIZED ATTACHMENTS

Sec. 14-205. - License required.
The only attachments authorized by this article or city law are licenses granted to a provider that is a party to the city's pole attachment license agreement for electrical facilities (wired or wireless as appropriate).
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(2), § 8.7)
Sec. 14-206. - Statewide pole attachment agreement adopted.
The city has adopted the model statewide pole attachment agreements of the Electric Cities of Georgia, Inc., as its form of pole attachment license agreement for electrical facilities, the forms of which are available in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(2), § 8.8)
State Law reference— Rate and fee agreements between electric membership corporations and communications service providers for electrical pole attachments, O.C.G.A. § 46-3-200.4 (Georgia Broadband Opportunity Act).
Sec. 14-207. - Execution of pole attachment license agreement required for application for license.
Any provider wishing to make a legal attachment to a city pole must execute the city's pole attachment license agreement for electrical facilities (wired or wireless as appropriate) and apply for a license per the terms thereof.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(2), § 8.9)
Secs. 14-208—14-237. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - UNAUTHORIZED ATTACHMENTS

Sec. 14-238. - Unlicensed attachments considered trespass.
If any attachment is identified that was not licensed under the city's applicable pole attachment license agreement for electrical facilities, it shall be deemed an unauthorized attachment and shall be considered a trespass upon city property.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(2), § 8.10)
Sec. 14-239. - Penalty fee for unauthorized attachment.
The owner of any unauthorized attachment shall pay to the city a one-time fee in the amount, as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk, per unauthorized attachment.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(2), § 8.11)
Sec. 14-240. - Compliance.
If the owner of an unauthorized attachment is readily ascertainable, he shall be given 30 days in which to enter into a pole attachment license agreement for electrical facilities with the city and apply for a license for any unauthorized attachments. Paying the unauthorized attachment fee shall be a condition of approval of any licenses.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(2), § 8.12)
Sec. 14-241. - Noncompliance.
(a)
If the owner of the unauthorized attachment is not readily ascertainable, or if the owner of the unauthorized attachment is readily ascertainable and neither enters into a pole attachment license agreement for electrical facilities with the city within 30 days or does not apply for a license for the unauthorized attachment, such owner will be assessed a charge equal to the make work costs incurred by the city for its removal from the city's pole in addition to the unauthorized attachment fee. The unauthorized attachment will be removed from the city pole and discarded.
(b)
If the owner of the unauthorized attachment is not readily ascertainable, the unauthorized attachment will be removed from the city pole and discarded.
(Ord. of 9-3-2019(2), § 8.13)
