ARTICLE 14. - MHP MANUFACTURED HOME PARK

Section 1401. - Purpose.
Encourage the development of land as planned manufactured home communities and to provide efficient networks of utilities to service these communities.
Section 1402. - Boundaries of MHP districts.
The official map (Section 2301 of this appendix) shows the boundaries of all MHP districts within the county. Article 23 also contains additional information concerning interpreting district boundaries, amending boundaries, etc.
Section 1403. - Permitted uses.
(a)
The following principal uses are permitted in MHP districts:
(1)
Manufactured homes as defined in housing definitions section.
(2)
Utility substations meeting the following development standards:
a.
Minimum setbacks. Utility substations, including any required fencing, must be set back a minimum of 60 feet from all public rights-of-way and from adjacent property lines of any lot on which a residence is located, and 30 feet from all other adjacent property lines.
b.
Minimum lot size. The lot on which a utility substation is located must be of sufficient size to meet the minimum setback requirements; however, in no case shall the lot on which a utility substation is located be less than one-fourth acre.
c.
Utility substations, including any woven wire fencing, shall be completely enclosed by decorative fencing such as, but not necessarily limited to, brick, stone or wood. Utility substations must also be enclosed by a woven wire fence at least eight feet high with bottom of fence either flush with the ground or with a masonry footing; however, the requirement for woven wire fencing may be waived if the applicant reasonably demonstrates that the utility substation does not pose a hazard to the public. If the requirement for woven wire fencing is waived, then the zoning administrator may waive the requirement for the building to be completely enclosed by decorative fencing if the zoning administrator determines that such waiver would not negatively impact the aesthetic quality of the building. However, all equipment located outside the building, such as but not limited to generators and tanks, shall be enclosed by decorative fencing.
d.
No vehicles or equipment may be stored on the lot.
e.
A buffer a minimum of 25 feet wide must be maintained along the side and rear property lines. If any decorative fencing requirements are waived, the zoning administrator may require additional landscaping to preserve the aesthetic quality of the site.
f.
Any building at a utility substation site must be architecturally compatible with adjacent properties.
g.
The applicant must submit a site plan to the zoning administrator, showing the proposed location and design of any buildings, the proposed location and type of any exterior equipment, the proposed location and design of all fencing, any proposed landscaping, the means of ingress and egress, the uses of adjacent property, and the distance of all improvements from adjacent property lines and rights-of-way. The site plan must be approved by the zoning administrator prior to the issuance of a permit, and the zoning administrator may require any modifications to the site plan necessary to achieve compliance with the standards and spirit of this appendix.
h.
The development standards contained in Section 1404 of this appendix shall not apply to utility substations.
(b)
The following conditional uses are permitted in MHP districts:
(1)
Churches on a minimum of two and one-half acres on an arterial or collector roadway. If the church has a cemetery, the minimum lot size shall be five acres.
a.
No church building shall be located within 100 yards of any establishment that has been licensed for the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages. For purposes of this subsection, distance shall be measured by the most direct route of travel on the ground.
b.
[Reserved.]
(2)
Schools on minimum of five acres and on an arterial or collector highway.
(3)
Parks of five acres or more.
(4)
Day care facility on two or more acres.
(5)
Home occupation.
(6)
Golf, tennis, and country clubs.
(Ord. No. 1997-40, 12-2-97)
Section 1404. - Development standards of MHP districts.
(a)
All parks shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
The minimum park size shall be five acres.
(2)
No manufactured home shall be located closer than ten feet to any lot line, except that no manufactured home shall be located closer than 20 feet to a right-of-way.
(3)
Each manufactured home shall be connected to an approved water and sewer system.
(4)
The minimum lot size for each manufactured home shall be 6,000 square feet with a minimum lot width of 60 feet where lots are served by both public water and public sewer systems. The minimum lot size shall be 6,000 square feet where lots are served by community water system and a septic tank or as required by the county health department.
(5)
The minimum distance between any two manufactured homes or between any manufactured home and any other building in the park shall be 20 feet.
(6)
Each individual manufactured home lot shall have a properly drained and all-weather surfaced parking space for at least two motor vehicles.
(7)
Each manufactured home lot shall be clearly defined by means of concrete, steel, or iron pipe markers placed at all corners. Lot identification numbers must be clearly visible from the lot to the road accessing it.
(8)
At least 200 square feet per manufactured home lot shall be developed in one or more locations for community playground and recreation purposes.
(9)
A six-foot high opaque fence shall be erected along all property lines which abut a residential district.
(10)
No manufactured home park shall be occupied by a greater number of manufactured homes than authorized in the approved plan submitted pursuant to the requirements of the county mobile home ordinance. No mobile home park shall be enlarged or extended unless a modification to the original plan has been approved by the planning and zoning commission.
(11)
All streets within the park shall be paved to county road standards.
(12)
No manufactured home site permit may be issued unless the park layout has been reviewed and approved by the planning and zoning commission.
(13)
An identification sign, including the name of the manufactured home park, and the name of the owner/manager or another designated individual who can act for the owner/ manager, measuring not less than ten square feet, and no more than 16 square feet, shall be placed on private property, close to the entrance of the park and readily visible from both directions of the public right-of-way.
(14)
All manufactured home parks or communities of five or more manufactured home lots which are in existence on the date of the original adoption of this appendix (November 4, 1994), shall be required to meet all the conditions set forth in subsections (a)(3), (6), (9), (13) of this section within three years from the date of the original adoption of this appendix.
(b)
[Reserved.]
