ARTICLE 1. - GENERAL

Section 101. - Short title.
This document is entitled "The Zoning Ordinance of Bulloch County, Georgia." It may also be known by and cited by the short title of "Bulloch County Zoning Ordinance."
Section 102. - Authority.
The power of a local government to enact an ordinance such as this, which is intended to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, is provided by the provisions of the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia.
Section 103. - Jurisdiction.
This appendix applies to all land within the unincorporated areas of Bulloch County, Georgia.
Section 104. - Purposes.
(a)
The zoning ordinance of this county seeks to encourage the development of desirable land use patterns within the county in accordance with the county comprehensive plan. The promotion of sound land use patterns is intended to reduce or eliminate the occurrence of certain conditions that can threaten the general health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the county. This appendix should serve the following purposes:
(1)
Reduce the occurrence of hazardous traffic patterns and general congestion.
(2)
Secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers.
(3)
Assure that adequate light and air is provided.
(4)
Prevent the overcrowding of land, urban sprawl, and undue concentration of population.
(5)
Facilitate the adequate provision of public utilities, the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements and facilities.
(6)
Promote adequate living conditions and sustained suitability of neighborhoods.
(7)
Protect property against blight and depreciation.
(8)
Promote the proper location, height, bulk, number of stories and size of buildings and other structures, the size of yards, courts, and the use of other open spaces, the use of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, conservation, sanitation, protection against floods, public activities, and other purposes.
(9)
Encourage the most appropriate use of land, buildings, and structures and for other purposes.
(b)
Additional benefits to the public interest that can accrue from the development of sound land use patterns are as follows:
(1)
Efficient development and use of community utility networks.
(2)
Economy in governmental expenditures.
(3)
A higher level of convenience, order, prosperity, and aesthetics.
Section 105. - Content.
This appendix provides for the following:
(1)
Defines certain terms used in this appendix.
(2)
Establishes certain land use districts and specifies the boundaries of those districts.
(3)
Provides procedures for administering and amending the ordinance.
(4)
Regulates the erection, alteration, and use of buildings and structures.
(5)
Provides penalties for violation of this appendix.
(6)
Defines the powers and duties, as they relate to this appendix, of the board of commissioners, as well as such administrative officers, bodies, and agencies as the board of commissioners may establish for the efficient exercise of the zoning powers of the county under provisions specified in the Zoning Procedures Act, O.C.G.A. chapter 36-66.
(7)
Repeals conflicting ordinances.
Section 106. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Amd. of April 5, 2005 repealed section 106 in its entirety. Former section 106 pertained to related uniform development ordinances and derived from Ord. No. 1997-38, adopted Nov. 4, 1997.
