ARTICLE II. - ZONING DISTRICTS AND LAND USES

26-2.01.00 - GENERALLY.
The use of buildings, structures, and land in accordance with the Burke County Comprehensive Plan shall comply with the use requirements for zoning districts set forth in this article II. Buildings, structures, or land shall be occupied or used only in conformity with all of the regulations set forth herein for the district in which it is located.
(Ord. No. 18-01 , §§ 1, 2, 9-11-2018)
26-2.02.00 - ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
26-2.02.01 - Burke County Zoning Map.
(a)
Zoning districts for Burke County are hereby established as shown on the "Official Zoning Map of Burke County, Georgia."
(b)
The Official Zoning Map of Burke County, Georgia shall be identified by the signature of the chair of the board of commissioners, attested by the county administrator, and shall include the date of adoption.
(c)
The Official Zoning Map of Burke County, Georgia may be amended according to the procedures set forth in article IX of the LDC.
(d)
The Official Zoning Map of Burke County shall be retained in the Burke County Planning Commission Office.
(Ord. No. 18-01 , §§ 1, 2, 9-11-2018)
26-2.02.02 - Rural zoning districts.
Single-family detached dwellings, including manufactured homes and specified accessory structures and uses, are allowed in rural zoning districts established herein this section. Minimum lot area requirements are shown in Table 2-A. The following rural zoning district is established:
(a)
A-1, general agricultural district. This district is intended to provide for agricultural activities, including those related to crops, livestock and timber and other compatible uses. The intent of this district is to protect prime farmlands from the effects of suburban residential development, promote viable agricultural usage, and maintain the general rural character.
Table 2-A Lot Area Requirements, Rural Zoning Districts
EXPAND
Zoning District Minimum Lot Area*
Individual Well and Septic Tank System Public/Community Water and Individual Septic Tank System Public/Community Water and Public Sewer System
A-1 (parcels larger than 10 acres) 5 ac. 5 ac. 5 ac.
  * Unusual topographical or soil conditions may necessitate larger minimum requirements for properties utilizing septic systems. Installation of septic systems is subject to the approval of the Burke County Health Department.
(Ord. No. 18-01 , §§ 1, 2, 9-11-2018)
26-2.02.03 - Residential zoning districts.
Conventional built dwellings shall be required in residential zoning districts, with the exception that only manufactured homes shall be allowed in the R-4 district. Minimum lot area requirements are shown in Table 2-B. The following residential zoning districts are established:
(a)
R-1, Low density residential. This district is intended to provide for single-family detached dwellings on individual lots at a low density of development.
(b)
R-2, Medium density residential. This district is intended to provide for single-family detached dwellings on individual lots at a moderate density of development.
(c)
R-3, High density residential. This district is intended to provide for multi-family residential dwellings at a moderate to high density of development. Permissible uses are duplexes, townhomes, and apartments and condominiums.
(d)
R-4, Manufactured home park. This district is intended to provide for housing developments consisting of detached manufactured homes within a planned residential community, with the exception that single-lot manufactured home development is permissible subject to the provisions of section 26-4.03.22 of this LDC.
Table 2-B Lot Area Requirements, Residential Zoning Districts
EXPAND
Zoning District Minimum Lot Area*
Individual Well and Septic Tank System Public/Community Water and Individual Septic Tank System Public/Community Water and Public Sewer System
R-1 (10 acres and smaller parcels) 1 ac. ½ ac. ½ acre
R-2 1 ac. ½ ac. 15,000 sq. ft.
R-3 Duplex 1 ac. 0.5 ac. 12,000 sq. ft.
Townhome N/A N/A 1 ac.
Apartment N/A N/A 5 ac.
R-4 10 ac. Per
development
1 ac. per lot 10 ac. per
development
½ ac. per lot 10 ac. per
development
8,000 sq. ft. per lot
  * Unusual topographical or soil conditions may necessitate larger minimum requirements for properties utilizing septic systems. Installation of septic systems is subject to the approval of the Burke County Health Department.
(Ord. No. 18-01 , §§ 1, 2, 9-11-2018)
26-2.02.04 - Commercial, office, and institutional zoning districts.
The following commercial, office, and institutional zoning districts are established:
(a)
O-I, Office institutional. This district is intended to allow development of business and professional activities, medical and dental facilities, and the development and maintenance of publicly owned lands and structures, parks and recreation areas, public schools, and buildings used principally for government functions. Limited retail uses normally associated with office or institutional uses, accessory structures, and essential public services are also permissible.
(b)
C-C, Crossroads commercial. This district is intended to provide locations for limited retail and service uses to satisfy the common and frequent needs of residents of nearby residential and agricultural areas. It is the intent of the district to locate businesses at major road intersections to discourage strip commercial development.
(c)
C-G, General commercial. This district is intended to provide locations for a wide variety of retail and service uses to satisfy the common and frequent needs of residents in large sections of the county. It is the intent of the district to concentrate businesses at major road intersections to discourage strip commercial development.
Table 2-C Lot Area Requirements, Commercial,
Office and Institutional Zoning Districts
EXPAND
Zoning District Minimum Lot Area*
Individual Well and Septic Tank System Public/Community Water and Individual Septic Tank System Public/Community Water and Public Sewer System
O-I 1 ac. 1 ac. 10,000 sq. ft.
C-C 1 ac. 1 ac. 10,000 sq. ft.
C-G 1 ac. 1 ac. 10,000 sq. ft.
  * Unusual topographical or soil conditions may necessitate larger minimum requirements for properties utilizing septic systems. Installation of septic systems is subject to the approval of the Burke County Health Department.
(Ord. No. 18-01 , §§ 1, 2, 9-11-2018)
26-2.02.05 - Industrial zoning districts.
The following industrial zoning districts are established:
(a)
I-1, Light industrial. This district provides for light industrial uses which do not create excessive noise, odor, smoke, or dust and do not produce, store, or handle hazardous wastes. Permissible uses include activities involved in warehousing, assembly, storage, and commercial services.
(b)
I-2, General industrial. This district provides for the manufacturing, assembling, storage, distribution, and sales activities that are generally high intensity. For those industries which may have negative impacts or nuisance factors associated with their use, supplemental standards shall apply within the district. I-2 districts shall be located on arterial streets or on major collector streets having ready access to arterial streets.
(c)
I-3, Special use industrial. This district provides for energy producing uses located at Plant Vogtle. The district includes the nuclear power plant, supporting infrastructure, and associated uses.
Table 2-D Lot Area Requirements, Industrial Zoning Districts
EXPAND
Zoning District Minimum Lot Area*
Individual Well and Septic Tank System Public/Community Water and Individual Septic Tank System Public/Community Water and Public Sewer System
I-1 1 ac. 20,000 sq. ft. 20,000 sq. ft.
I-2 1 ac. 1 ac. 1 ac.
I-3 N/A N/A N/A
  * Unusual topographical or soil conditions may necessitate larger minimum requirements for properties utilizing septic systems. Installation of septic systems is subject to the approval of the Burke County Health Department.
(Ord. No. 18-01 , §§ 1, 2, 9-11-2018)
26-2.02.06 - Zoning districts and future development map relationship.
Nine character areas are reflected on the future development map for unincorporated Burke County, and each are implemented by individual zoning districts, as indicated in Table 2-E. The character areas listed below are further described in the Burke County Comprehensive Plan.
Table 2-E Zoning Districts that Support Character Areas
EXPAND
Character Area Zoning District
A-1 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 O-I C-C C-G I-1 I-2 I-3
Preserve Not Applicable
Rural/Agricultural Reserve ✓ ✓
Rural Village ✓ ✓ ✓
Developing Suburban ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Suburban Neighborhood ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Gough Town Neighborhood ✓ ✓ ✓
Liberty St. Commercial Corridor ✓
Educational Institutional ✓
Industrial & Employment Center ✓ ✓ ✓
Energy Production District ✓
  (Ord. No. 18-01 , §§ 1, 2, 9-11-2018)
26-2.03.00 - LAND USES PERMITTED IN EACH ZONING DISTRICT.
26-2.03.01 - Land use table.
modified
(a)
Generally. Table 2-F describes those uses that are permissible in each base zoning district. Buildings, structures, or land shall be occupied or used only in conformity with all of the regulations set forth herein for the district in which they are located. The zoning districts for Burke County are shown on the "Official Zoning Map of Burke County, Georgia."
(b)
How to read the land use table.
(1)
Within the following table the letter "P" indicates that the land use is permissible, subject to compliance with the standards of the zoning district.
(2)
The letter "S" indicates that the land use is permissible, subject to compliance with the standards of the zoning district, and the site design standards specified for the use. Site design standards for specific uses are contained in section 4.03.00.
(3)
The letters "CU" indicates that the land use is allowed by conditional use, subject to compliance with the standards of the zoning district, and the site design standards specified for the use, and approval of, pursuant to section 26-9.02.08. Site design standards for specific uses are continued in section 4 [article IV]. Conditional use permits shall be issued to the applicant solely, are not transferrable, and shall extinguish upon cessation of such activity for a period of six months.
(4)
A blank cell indicates the land use is prohibited.
(5)
Any land use that is not identified in Table 2-F is prohibited unless it is found to be substantially similar to an identified use in said table by the building official or designee.
(6)
A determination that a use qualifies as a similar and compatible use shall be made upon the building official's finding that:
a.
The characteristics of, and activities associated with the requested use is similar to one or more of the listed uses, and will not involve a greater intensity than the uses listed in the zoning district;
b.
The requested use will be consistent with the purpose of the applicable zoning district;
c.
The requested use will be compatible with the other uses allowed in the zoning district;
d.
The requested use will be consistent with the comprehensive plan and any applicable specific plan;
e.
The definition of a requested use is comparable to that of a use identified in Table 2-F; and
f.
The requested use is not allowable in another zoning district.
(c)
The administrative interpretation shall be subject to appeal, as set forth in article IX.
Table 2-F Land Use Table
EXPAND
P — Permissible,
S — Permissible, subject to site design standards for the use in article IV
Blank — Prohibited A-1 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 O-I C-C C-G I-1 I-2 I-3
Residential
Single-Family Detached Dwelling P P P P P
Duplex P
Townhome P
Multifamily P
Manufactured Home S S S
Manufactured Home Park Development S
Accommodations
Bed and Breakfast Inn P P P P
Rooming and Boarding P P
Tourist Court P
Commercial Campgrounds CU S S
Recreational Campgrounds CU
Institutional or Community Facilities
Assisted-Living Services:
Family Personal Care Home
(2-6 residents) S CU S S S S
Group Personal Care Home
(7-15 residents) S CU S S S
Congregate Personal Care Home
(16 or more residents) S S S
Hospital S S S
Child Day Care:
Family Day Care Home
(3-6 children) P P P P P P P
Group Day Care Home
(7-18 children) P CU P P P
Child Day Care Center, nursery school, preschool or Pre-K
(19 or more children) P P P
Animal Care Facilities (hospitals, veterinary clinics, kennels and boarding facilities) S S P P
Schools (private):
K-12 CU S S S P P P
Colleges and Universities CU S S P P P
Business, Commercial P P
Trade, Industrial P P P
Library Building P P
Museum Building P P
Exhibitions and Art Galleries P P
Zoological Park S
Funeral Home P P
Cemeteries, Mausoleums, and Memorial Gardens S CU S S S S
Private Club or Lodge P P
Public Assembly
Indoor Activity Uses P P
Religious Facilities P CU P P P P P P P P
Outdoor Activity Uses, excluding outdoor amusements S S S P P
Outdoor Amusement Uses S S S
Agriculture
Commercial Agricultural Production P
Intensive Agricultural Use S
Livestock Sales Pavilions S
Commercial Slaughterhouses S
Wholesale and Retail Sale of Agricultural Products S
Animal Containment (non-intensive agricultural use) S
Riding Stables S
Temporary and Portable Sawmills S
Timber Operations (excluding temporary and portable sawmills) S
Mulching Large Scale P
Mulching Small Scale S
Deer Processing Facility S
Commercial
Adult Entertainment Establishments S S
Business Services such as Copying, Mailing, or Printing P P P P
Car Wash P P P
Convenience Store P P
Extensive Business Use S S P
Farmers Market and Outdoor Sales P P P
Financial Institutions, Banks and Credit Unions P P P
Gasoline Station P P P
Grocery Store P P P P
Laundry, Self-Service P P
Medical and Dental Clinics, Laboratories P P P P
Mini-Storage or Self-Storage Facility P P P
Package Store (alcohol) P
Personal Services such as Barber, Beauty, Shoe Repair,
Dry Cleaning Pick-Up P P P
Professional Offices P P P P P
Restaurants, Custom Service (excludes drive-through windows) P P P P P P
Restaurants, Limited Service, including Fast Food and Take-Out (with or without drive-through window) P P P P P
Retail Establishments P P P P
Small Equipment or Appliance Repair Shops P P
Specialty and Gift Shops such as antique, art, books, jewelry or stationers P P
Studios such as art, dancing, music or photography schools P P P P
Industrial, Transportation and Utilities
Airport, private S
Junkyard S S
Recycling Center S S
Manufacturing:
Incidental CU CU P P
Light Industry P
General Industry P
Industrial Uses with Nuisance Features S
Nuclear Power Plant P
Semi Trailer or Container Storage Facility CU P P
Solar Energy Farm CU S S
Solid Waste Management Facility (includes landfill) S
Truck Stop P P P P
Warehouse, not including self-storage P P
Wholesale establishment P P
Wind energy facility, principal use S S S
Wireless telecommunication tower S S S S
  (Ord. No. 18-01 , §§ 1, 2, 9-11-2018; Ord. No. 19-02 , § 1, 4-9-2019; Ord. No. 20-01 , §§ 1, 2, 2-11-2020; Ord. No. 21-06 , § 2, 8-10-2021)
26-2.03.02 - Accessory use table.
modified
(a)
Generally. Table 2-G describes those accessory uses that are permissible in each base zoning district. Buildings, structures, or land shall be occupied or used only in conformity with all of the regulations set forth herein for the district in which they are located. The zoning districts for Burke County are shown on the "Official Zoning Map of Burke County, Georgia."
(b)
How to read the accessory use table.
(1)
Within the following table the letter "P" indicates that the accessory land use is permissible, subject to compliance with the standards of the zoning district and the standards of article V of this LDC.
(2)
The letter "S" indicates that the accessory land use is permissible, subject to compliance with the standards of the zoning district, and the site design standards specified for the use. Site design standards for specific uses are contained in section 26-4.03.00.
(3)
A blank cell indicates the land use is prohibited.
(4)
Any land use that is not identified in Table 2-G is prohibited unless it is found to be substantially similar to an identified use in said table by the building official or designee.
a.
A requested use shall be considered substantially similar when the characteristics of the requested use are equivalent in type, intensity, degree, or impact when compared to a use named in Table 2-G.
b.
The administrative interpretation shall be subject to appeal, as set forth in article IX.
Table 2-G Table of Accessory Uses
EXPAND
P-Permissible
Blank - Prohibited A-1 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 O-I C-C C-G I-1 I-2 I-3
Accessory Dwelling—Freestanding (not including caretaker and tenant dwellings) P P P
Caretaker Dwelling
(for property security/maintenance) P P
Tenant Dwelling P
Accessory Dwelling—within Principal Structure P P P P
Business Office for a Farming Operation P
Dumpsters P P P P P P P P
Garage or Carport — Detached P P P P P
Intensive Agricultural Operation Accessory Buildings and Uses S
Outdoor Storage of Machinery and Equipment for Agricultural Support P
Religious Use Accessory Buildings P P P P P P P P P P
Swimming Pool P P P P P
Solar Collection System P P P P P P P P P P
Wind Energy Facility, Accessory Use P P P P P P
  (Ord. No. 18-01 , §§ 1, 2, 9-11-2018; Ord. No. 21-06 , § 3, 8-10-2021)
