Chapter 24 - SANITATION AND HEALTH
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 24-001—24-018. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SOLID WASTE

Sec. 24-019. - Litter control and garbage disposal.
A.
Definitions.
Litter includes, without limitation, all sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, waste material, tin cans, refuse, garbage, trash, debris, dead animals or discarded materials of every kind and description. Public or private property includes without limitation the rights-of-way of any road or highway; any body of water or watercourse or the shores or beaches thereof; any park, playground, building, refuge, conservation or recreation area; and residential or farm properties, timberlands or forests.
B.
Scope.
1.
Dumping litter on public or private property. It shall be unlawful to dump, deposit, throw or leave or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter on any public or private property in the city unless: the property is designated by the city for the disposal of litter and the person is authorized to use such property for such purpose; the litter is properly placed into a litter receptacle or container lawfully installed on such property; or the person is the owner or lawful tenant and has properly placed non-oversized litter at curbside for regular scheduled pickups, in a manner consistent with the public welfare. Oversized litter is that which does not fit in a standard garbage collection company supplied bin.
2.
Prima facie evidence. Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any vehicle, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of the conveyance has violated this section.
3.
Rebuttable presumption. Except as provided in subsection 24-019.B2 of this section, whenever any litter is discovered to contain any items which display the name of a person thereon so as to indicate that the item belongs or belonged to such person, it shall be prima facie evidence that such person has violated this section.
4.
Enforcement. All law enforcement agencies and officers of the city and any person, officer or constable appointed by the council are authorized, empowered and directed to enforce compliance with the above regulations.
5.
Misuse or vandalization of container. If a container is clearly marked household garbage only, it shall be unlawful for any person to dump any refuse or other material into the container other than household garbage. It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to the contents of, scatter or disperse the contents of, or otherwise vandalize, any containers provided by the city for the dumping of trash or garbage. Any person who violates this subsection or 24-019.B6 of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
6.
Penalties. Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows: by a fine as determined from time to time by ordinance; in the sound discretion of the court, the person may be directed to pick up and remove from any public street or highway or public right-of-way for a distance not to exceed one mile, all litter deposited by anyone prior to the date of execution of sentence; or in the sound discretion of the court, the person may be directed to pick up all litter from any public park, private right-of-way or, with the prior permission of the owner, private property upon which it can be established by competent evidence that the person has deposited litter. The court may publish the names of persons convicted of violating this section.
(Prior Code, § 17-001)
Sec. 24-020. - Garbage containers.
A.
Required specifications. The owner, agent, and occupant of any premises, improved or unimproved, in the city, wherein garbage shall be created, shall provide a metal and/or plastic cover, water-tight container or containers, each with a tight fitting metal and/or plastic cover, such container or containers to be 30 gallon size and of such numbers as to receive the garbage accumulation of seven day of each premises, and shall place all garbage in said containers, and shall place such containers, or cause them to be placed at such a place on said premises as to afford easy access for the purpose of garbage pick-up. It shall be lawful for such owner, agent, and/or occupant of any such premises to have, maintain, or keep garbage on any premises except in such garbage containers as are provided in this section.
B.
To be kept covered. Containers shall be kept tightly covered at all times except when open to receive garbage or to have the contents removed, as provided for hereafter.
C.
Application to business and residential premises. The provisions of this section shall apply to all public and privates markets, as well as all places of business, hotels, motels, restaurants, and all other premises, whether used for business or residential purposes. Commercial establishments having perishable garbage and refuse shall provide a separate metal and/or plastic, water and fly-tight container for such waste only. Other nonperishable garbage and waste from commercial establishments shall be placed in separate containers or where desirable, owner, agent, and occupant of commercial establishment may build an enclosure or bin in which to place nonperishable garbage and waste, provide enclosure or bin is built so as not to be located on a public street and provided further that said enclosure or bin be constructed so as to ensure that the weather and predators do not remove said garbage and waste therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 17-002)
Sec. 24-021. - Location.
Containers may be kept at any place on the premises convenient to the owner, agent, or occupant except that on pickup date said garbage container shall be placed on the property line adjacent to a public street so as to afford easy access for the purpose of garbage pickup. A container not so located on the pickup date shall not be picked up by the city except in those special instances where city council authorizes garbage pickup at places other than that herein defined.
(Prior Code, § 17-003)
Secs. 24-022—24-045. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FOOD AND FOOD HANDLERS

Sec. 24-046. - Permit required.
All eating and drinking establishments or places in the city shall be required to secure a permit from the county health department. A person conducting an itinerant restaurant shall also be required to secure a permit. No business license shall be issued an eating or drinking establishment or place or person conducting an itinerant restaurant within the city before a permit has been granted by the county health department.
(Prior Code, § 17-004)
Secs. 24-047—24-065. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - SEWAGE DISPOSAL

Sec. 24-066. - Definitions.
The following word, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Human excreta means the bowel and kidney discharges of the human body.
Sanitary water closet means any flush toilet properly connected with a public sanitary sewer system or a septic tank.
Septic tank means an underground cavity with watertight walls into which flows the effluent of sanitary water closets. The term "septic tank" shall be constructed to mean a structure built in strict accordance with the plans and specifications of the county health department. These plans and specifications are adopted by the city.
Septic tank absorption field or drainfield means an underground system of pipes, leading from the septic tank, consisting of open jointed concrete or clay pipe, so distributed that the effluent from a septic tank is oxidized and absorbed by the soil. This system shall be constructed in accordance with the plans and specifications of the county health department.
(Prior Code, § 17-006; Code 1987, § 10-20; Ord. of 6-13-1959, § 1)
Sec. 24-067. - Facilities for human excreta disposal required.
It shall be unlawful to construct, to maintain, or use or permit the use of any residence, place of business or other building or place where persons reside, congregate, or are employed, which is not provided with means for the disposal of human excreta, either by sanitary water closet or a septic tank, provided that the means for disposal of human excreta shall be provided for each residence, place of business, or other building for the exclusive use of the occupancy therein.
(Prior Code, § 17-007; Code 1935, § 96; Code 1987, § 10-21; Ord. of 6-13-1959, § 2(A))
Sec. 24-068. - Septic tank permit; approval.
Before septic tank and drainfield construction, the person in charge of such construction shall obtain a permit from the county health department. After construction is completed and before it is covered with earth, an inspection shall be obtained and approval granted by a representative of the county health department.
(Prior Code, § 17-008; Code 1987, § 10-22; Ord. of 6-13-1959, § 2(G))
Sec. 24-069. - Connection to private system required pending availability of public sewer.
Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with this article. When such a sewer is so available, it shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any septic tank or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 17-009; Code 1987, § 10-23)
Sec. 24-070. - Privies prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain a privy or dry closet in the city.
(Prior Code, § 17-010; Code 1935, § 95; Code 1987, § 10-24)
Sec. 24-071. - Sanitary method of disposal required.
Every residence and building in which human being reside, are employed or congregate, shall be required to have a sanitary method of human excreta disposal: namely, either a sanitary closet connecting with the city sewage system, or if not available a septic tank of typed approved by the department of public health of the state. It shall be unlawful to dispose of any human excreta within the corporate limits of the city except in a sanitary water closet connected with the city sewage system or in a septic tank of type approved by the department of public health of the state.
(Prior Code, § 17-011)
