Chapter 15 - ENVIRONMENT
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 15-001—15-020. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - GROUNDWATER RECHARGE AREA PROTECTION

Sec. 15-021. - Title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Groundwater Recharge Area Protection Ordinance."
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(1), § 1-1)
Sec. 15-022. - Purpose and intent.
Groundwater is among the nation's most important natural resources. It provides drinking water to urban and rural communities, supports irrigation and industry, sustains the flow of streams and rivers, and maintains riparian and wetland ecosystems. In many areas of the nation, the future sustainability of groundwater resources is at risk from overuse and contamination. Because groundwater systems typically respond slowly to human actions, a long-term perspective is needed to manage this valuable resource. This article is intended to implement rules of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources' Environmental Protection Division known as the "Rules for Environmental Planning Criteria" as they specifically relate to groundwater recharge areas (Rule 391-3-16-.02). It is essential to the health, safety, and welfare of the public that the quality of subsurface public drinking water be maintained. Groundwater resources exist in underground reservoirs known as aquifers. These aquifers are zones of rock beneath the earth's surface that are capable of providing water for a well. They occupy vast regions of the subsurface and are replenished by infiltration of surface water runoff in zones of the surface, known as groundwater recharge areas. Groundwater is susceptible to contamination when development occurs within groundwater recharge areas. Certain land use activities, such as septic tanks, underground tanks, and chemical spills, pose a significant threat to the quality of groundwater supplies. Therefore, it is necessary to manage land uses within groundwater recharge areas in order to ensure that pollution threats and development impacts are minimized. To this end, this article establishes minimum lot sizes to provide for the orderly and safe development of property utilizing on-site sewage management systems.
Recharge of Groundwater from Surface Water During Normal and Drought
Conditions
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(1), § 1-2)
Sec. 15-023. - Definitions.
Acre-foot means the volume (as of irrigation water) that would cover one acre to a depth of one foot.
Aquifer means any stratum or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or providing water for a well.
DRASTIC means the standardized system for evaluating groundwater pollution potential using the hydrogeologic settings described in U.S. Environmental Protection Agency document EPA-600-2-87-035. (Note: The DRASTIC methodology is the most widely used technique for evaluating pollution susceptibility.)
Hydrologic Atlas 18 means a map prepared by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and published by the Georgia Geologic Survey in 1989, which identifies the most significant groundwater recharge areas of Georgia as spotted areas labeled as "areas of thick soils."
Hydrologic Atlas 20 means a multicolored map of Georgia at a scale of 1:500,000, prepared by the Georgia DNR using the DRASTIC methodology and published by the Georgia Geologic Survey in 1992, which shows areas of high, average (or medium), and low susceptibility of groundwater to pollution in Georgia. This map is also commonly known as the Groundwater Pollution Susceptibility Map of Georgia.
Pollution susceptibility means the relative vulnerability of an aquifer to being polluted from spills, discharges, leaks, impoundments, applications of chemicals, injections and other human activities in the recharge area. Each significant recharge area shown on Hydrologic Atlas 18 is classified on Hydrologic Atlas 20 as high, medium, or low, and these classifications are relevant in this article.
Recharge area means any portion of the earth's surface where water infiltrates into the ground to replenish an aquifer.
Significant recharge areas means those areas mapped by the Georgia DNR in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 edition) within the City of Butler. Each significant recharge area shall be determined to have a pollution susceptibility of high, medium, or low based on Hydrologic Atlas 20.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(1), § 1-3)
Sec. 15-024. - Adoption of Hydrologic Atlas 18 by reference.
Hydrologic Atlas 18, as defined by this article is hereby adopted and made a part of this article as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(1), § 1-4)
Sec. 15-025. - Adoption of Hydrologic Atlas 20 by reference.
Hydrologic Atlas 20, as defined by this article is hereby adopted and made a part of this article as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(1), § 1-5)
Sec. 15-026. - Applicability.
This article shall apply to all lands within City of Butler that are mapped as significant recharge areas as defined by this article.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(1), § 1-6)
Sec. 15-027. - Permit required.
No land use permit or building permit shall be issued by the land use officer for a building, structure, or manufactured home to be served by a septic tank, unless the land use or building conforms to the requirements of this article. Prior to a land use permit or building permit being issued, the land use officer shall require a site plan or subdivision plat in sufficient detail to review the proposed development for compliance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(1), § 1-7)
Sec. 15-028. - County health department approval of permit required.
No land use permit or building permit shall be issued by the land use officer for a building, structure, or manufactured home to be served by a septic tank, unless the local health department first approves the proposed septic tank installation as meeting the requirements of the Georgia Department of Human Resources Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems (hereinafter DHR Manual) and this article.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(1), § 1-8)
Sec. 15-029. - Minimum lot size.
Within an area governed by this article, new homes or land uses served by a septic tank/drain field system shall be on lots having minimum lot sizes as follows, based on application of Table MT-1 of the DHR Manual (hereinafter DHR Table MT-1). The minimums set forth in DHR Table MT-1 may be increased further based on consideration of other factors set forth in sections A—F of the DHR Manual, as determined by the local health department.
1.
One hundred fifty percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area.
2.
One hundred twenty-five percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within an average or medium pollution susceptibility area.
3.
One hundred ten percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
Any lot of record approved prior to the adoption of this article shall be exempt from the minimum lot size requirements of this section. Within an area governed by this article, no subdivision plat shall be recorded until and unless said plat has been reviewed and approved by the land use officer as being in compliance with the minimum lot sizes established by this section.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(1), § 1-1)
Sec. 15-030. - Mobile home parks.
Within an area governed by this article, new mobile home parks served by septic tank/drainfield systems shall have lots or spaces having minimum areas in square feet as follows, based on application of Table MT-2 of the DHR Manual (hereinafter DHR Table MT-2). The minimums set forth in Table MT-2 may be increased further based on consideration of other factors set forth in sections A—F of the DHR Manual, as determined by the local health department.
1.
One hundred fifty percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area;
2.
One hundred twenty-five percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within an average or medium pollution susceptibility area;
3.
One hundred ten percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
Within an area governed by this article, no site plan for a mobile home park or manufactured home park shall be considered valid until and unless said site plan has been reviewed and approved by the land use officer as being in compliance with the minimum space sizes established by this section.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(1), § 1-10)
Sec. 15-031. - Agricultural waste impoundment sites.
New agricultural waste impoundment sites in a significant recharge area, as specified below, shall contain a liner consisting of compacted clay having a thickness of one-foot and a vertical hydraulic conductivity of less than 5 × 10 -7 cm/sec or other criteria established by the Natural Resource and Conservation Service:
1.
Any agricultural waste impoundment site located in a high pollution susceptibility area;
2.
Any agricultural waste impoundment site within an average or medium pollution susceptibility area which exceeds 15 acre-feet; or,
3.
Any agricultural waste impoundment site within a low pollution susceptibility area that exceeds 50 acre-feet.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(1), § 1-11)
Sec. 15-032. - Above ground chemical or petroleum storage tanks.
Within an area governed by this article, new above-ground chemical or petroleum storage tanks having a minimum volume of 660 gallons shall have secondary containment for 110 percent of the volume of such tanks or 110 percent of the volume of the largest tank in a cluster of tanks. Such tanks used for agricultural purposes are exempt, provided they comply with all federal requirements.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(1), § 1-12)
Sec. 15-033. - Hazardous materials handling facilities.
Within an area governed by this article, new facilities that handle hazardous materials of the types listed in section 312 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (excluding underground storage tanks) and in amounts of 10,000 pounds or more on any one day, shall perform their operations on impervious surfaces and in conformance with any applicable federal spill prevention requirements and any local or applicable state fire code requirements.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(1), § 1-13)
Sec. 15-034. - Stormwater infiltration basins.
Permanent storm water infiltration basins shall not be constructed in significant recharge areas having high pollution susceptibility.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(1), § 1-14)
Secs. 15-035—15-040. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - WETLANDS PROTECTION

Sec. 15-041. - Title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Wetlands Protection Ordinance."
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(2), § 3-1)
Sec. 15-042. - Purpose and intent.
Wetlands are indispensable and fragile natural resources with significant development constraints due to flooding, erosion, and soils limitations. In their natural state, wetlands serve man and nature. They provide habitat areas for fish, wildlife and vegetation; water quality maintenance and pollution control; flood control; erosion control; natural resource education; scientific study; and open space and recreational opportunities. In addition, the wise management of forested wetlands is essential to the well-being of communities in the State of Georgia. Nationally, a considerable number of wetlands have been lost or impaired by draining, dredging, filling, excavating, building, pollution and other activities. Without additional regulation, piecemeal or cumulative losses of wetlands will continue to occur over time. Therefore, it is in the interest of public safety and general welfare to avoid damage or destruction to wetlands. The purpose of this article is to promote wetlands protection by adopting a generalized wetlands map; provide for the withholding of land use and building permits in areas designated as wetlands until a jurisdictional wetland determination is completed; and establish permitted and prohibited land uses within wetlands shown on the generalized wetlands map.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(2), § 3-2)
Sec. 15-043. - Definitions.
Generalized wetlands map means a map of wetlands provided in the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory (NWI) map showing wetlands within the City of Butler.
Jurisdictional wetland means an area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Jurisdictional wetland determination means a delineation of jurisdictional wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by Section 404 of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1344, as amended.
Regulated activity means any activity which will, or which may reasonably be expected to, result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the U.S. excepting those activities exempted in section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act.
Wetlands means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas (see figure below). The ecological parameters for designating wetlands include hydric soils, hydrophytic vegetation, and hydrological conditions that involve a temporary or permanent source of water to cause soil saturation.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(2), § 3-3)
Sec. 15-044. - Adoption of generalized wetlands map by reference.
The generalized wetlands map, as defined by this article, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference, and hereby made a part of this article as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(2), § 3-4)
Sec. 15-045. - Applicability.
This article shall apply to all lands within the City of Butler that are shown on the generalized wetlands map, as defined by this article, as wetlands.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(2), § 3-5)
Sec. 15-046. - Permit required.
No land use permit or building permit shall be issued by the land use officer for a land use, building, structure, or manufactured home, nor shall any regulated activity as defined by this article commence, unless the land use, building, structure, manufactured home or regulated activity conforms to the requirements of this article. Prior to a land use permit or building permit being issued, the land use officer shall require a site plan or subdivision plat in sufficient detail to review the proposed development for compliance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(2), § 3-6)
Sec. 15-047. - Jurisdictional wetland determination required.
If an area proposed for development is located within 50 feet of a wetland as shown on the generalized wetlands map, as determined by the land use officer, no local land use permit or building permit on said wetland shall be issued until a jurisdictional wetland determination has been completed and either of the following occur:
1.
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determines that there are jurisdictional wetlands present on the proposed development site, a section 404 permit is required, and either a section 404 permit or a letter of permission is issued by the Corps for the proposed development; or,
2.
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determines that jurisdictional wetlands are not present on the proposed development site, and no section 404 permit or letter of permission is required.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(2), § 3-7)
Sec. 15-048. - Permitted uses.
The following uses shall be allowed as of right within an area shown as a wetland on the generalized wetlands map, to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance or law, including laws of trespass, and provided they do not require structures, grading, fill, draining, or dredging except as provided herein:
1.
Conservation or preservation of soil, water, vegetation, fish and other wildlife, provided it does not affect waters of Georgia or of the Unites States in such a way that would require an individual 404 permit.
2.
Outdoor passive recreational activities, including fishing, bird watching, hiking, boating, horseback riding, and canoeing.
3.
Forestry practices applied in accordance with best management practices approved by the Georgia Forestry Commission and as specified in section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
4.
The cultivation of agricultural crops. Agricultural activities shall be subject to best management practices approved by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
5.
The pasturing of livestock, provided that riparian wetlands are protected, that soil profiles are not disturbed and that approved agricultural best management practices are followed.
6.
Education, scientific research, and nature trails.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(2), § 3-8)
Sec. 15-049. - Prohibited uses.
The following uses are prohibited within wetlands shown on the generalized wetlands map:
1.
Receiving areas for toxic or hazardous waste or other contaminants.
2.
Hazardous or sanitary waste landfills.
(Ord. of 3-8-2016(2), § 3-9)
