Sec. 3.06.06. - Permit requirements and enforcement procedures.
(a)
Site plans. Application for a local development permit within Butts County shall include a site plan, drawn at a scale of one inch equals 50 feet, with the following information:
(1)
A map of all planned excavation and fill, including calculations of the volume of cut and fill involved, and cross-sectional drawings showing existing and proposed grades. Elevations, horizontal scale, and vertical scale must be shown on the cross-sectional drawings.
(2)
A map of any wetland boundaries occurring within the site must be provided. This boundary may be included on other maps provided by the applicant.
(3)
Location, dimensions, and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site and adjacent to the site for a distance of 200 feet.
(4)
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or water body.
(5)
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within 200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than two feet and no greater than one foot for slopes less than or equal to two percent.
(6)
Location and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing accidentally released hazardous or toxic materials.
(7)
All proposed temporary disruptions or diversions of local hydrology.
(b)
Activities to comply with site plan. All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform to the specifications of said site plan. Significant changes to the site plan that would alter the amount and velocity of stormwater runoff from the site, increase the amount of impervious surface within the development, alter the overall density of the development, or result in a considerable increase in the amount of excavation, fill, or removal of the overall appearance of the development as proposed can be amended only with the approval of the zoning administrator. Minor changes, such as the realignment of streets or minor alterations to drainage structures and other infrastructure to meet unexpected conditions, are exempted from this requirement.
(c)
Exemptions to site plan requirements. The following activities and developments are exempt from the requirement for detailed site plans:
(1)
Single-family detached homes constructed within a subdivision of fewer than five parcels.
(2)
Repairs to a facility that is part of a previously approved and permitted development.
(3)
Construction of minor structures, such as sheds or additions to single-family residences.
(d)
Review procedures. The application shall be made to the zoning administrator and will be reviewed within 30 days. At the time of the application, the applicant shall pay a filing fee as specified by the Butts County fee schedule. This fee may be used to retain expert consultants who will provide services pertaining to functional assessment, mitigation, and wetland boundary determinations, as deemed necessary by the zoning administrator. The review period shall include the preparation of findings (approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval) by the zoning administrator. The applicant will receive written notification of the findings of the zoning administrator. Decisions of the zoning administrator may be appealed to the Butts County board of appeals.
(e)
Duration of permit validity.
(1)
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within 12 months from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
(2)
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire 12 months after the date that work ceased.
(3)
Written notice of pending expiration of the development permit shall be issued by the zoning administrator.
(f)
Suspension, revocation. The zoning administrator may suspend or revoke a permit if s/he finds that the applicant has not complied with the conditions or limitations set forth in the permit or has exceeded the scope of the work set forth in the permit.
