Sec. 3.03.10. - Establishment of the Tussahaw Creek and Reservoir Area Watershed District, descriptions, maps, critical areas and limited development areas.
(a)
The Tussahaw Creek and Reservoir Area Watershed District (Tussahaw Watershed District) is hereby established and designated.
(b)
The Tussahaw Watershed District is defined as follows: All land that lies on each side of Tussahaw Creek and each perennial stream that flows into Tussahaw Creek to the ridge line from the west right-of-way line of Fincherville Road located in Butts County, Georgia, to the beginning points of Tussahaw Creek and each perennial stream that drains into Tussahaw Creek in said area. The main perennial streams that flow into the Tussahaw Creek at the location of the reservoir site are Peeksville Creek and its tributaries, Wolf Creek and its tributaries, and Malholms Creek and its tributaries. All of said creeks are located in the Tussahaw Watershed District.
(c)
A map of the Tussahaw Watershed District will be maintained by the County and the authority. The county's district map will overlie the official Butts County zoning map and each of said maps are hereby incorporated herein and made a part of this article by reference. The Tussahaw Watershed District shall be designated as WS-TS on the official Butts County zoning map.
(d)
Water quality critical area for the above-stated watershed district is all land that lies adjacent to the normal pool level of a reservoir and extending either to the ridge line boundary of the watershed or 500 feet, whichever is shorter, and all land extending a distance of three miles upstream from the normal pool level of the reservoir that is adjacent to each perennial stream upstream from the reservoir and extending either to the ridge line boundary of the watershed on each side of the perennial stream or 500 feet, whichever is shorter. The normal pool elevation of the existing and proposed reservoirs of the authority are Tussahaw Creek Reservoir contour line El. 600.0.
(e)
A limited development area (LDA) is established for the remaining part of the watershed district that is located outside of the WQCA to the ridge line of each district.
