Sec. 3.07.01. - Title of the article, findings, and objectives.
(a)
Title of article. This article shall be known as the Aquifer Recharge Area Protection Ordinance of Butts County, Georgia.
(b)
Findings of fact. In order to provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the public and a healthy economic climate within the county and surrounding communities, it is essential that the quality of public drinking water be ensured. For this reason, it is necessary to protect the subsurface water resources that Butts County, Georgia, and surrounding communities rely on as sources of public water. Groundwater resources are contained within aquifers, which are permeable, rock strata occupying vast subsurface regions. These aquifers are replenished by infiltration of stormwater runoff in zones of the surface known as aquifer recharge areas.
Aquifers are susceptible to contamination when unrestricted development occurs within significant aquifer recharge areas. It is, therefore, necessary to manage land use within aquifer recharge zones in order to ensure that pollution threats are minimized.
(c)
Adoption of aquifer recharge protection ordinance. The Georgia Department of Natural Resources and the Georgia Department of Community Affairs have determined that each local government with "significant groundwater recharge areas" (identified on the Ground Water Pollution Susceptibility Map of Georgia Hydrologic Atlas #20) must adopt an aquifer recharge protection ordinance under the requirements of House Bill 215, Georgia's 1989 Growth Strategies Legislation and the rules promulgated thereunder.
(d)
Objectives. The objectives of this article are to:
(1)
Protect groundwater by prohibiting land uses that generate dangerous pollutants in recharge areas;
(2)
Protect groundwater by limiting density of development;
(3)
Protect groundwater by reducing adverse effects on groundwater from the development that occurs within the recharge area; and
(4)
Comply with the requirements of the Georgia 1989 Growth Strategies Legislation.
