Sec. 3.09.05. - Requirements in all zoning districts.
(a)
The mass grading and/or clear-cutting of properties and/or parcels of land which are five acres in size or greater for residential development is strictly prohibited, except as noted in subsection 3.09.04(c). As to each such development, only so much land area shall be cleared as is necessary for the development and construction of roadways, utilities, and amenity areas (i.e., parking lots for clubhouses, pool areas, tennis courts, etc.).
(b)
Mass grading and clear-cutting of any lot in a residential subdivision are prohibited, except as noted in subsection 3.09.04(c). On such lots, land area shall be cleared only as is necessary for purposes of the proper development of said lot. Clearing shall be limited to the specific development and an area not to exceed ten feet from the specific development, including areas for:
(1)
The placement of the individual home;
(2)
The placement of driveways and sidewalks;
(3)
The placement of utilities and detention ponds;
(4)
The placement of septic systems;
(5)
The placement of roads;
(6)
The placement of decks and patios; and
(7)
Proper drainage as required by the county.
(c)
Developers and builders shall coordinate the location of all utilities with all utility companies in order to prevent root damage within the critical root zones of protected trees, so as to minimize damage to trees in the protected zones.
(d)
Topographical difficulties and/or the installation of utilities shall be considered at the time of the development of a residential subdivision or parcel. Each parcel of land shall be considered on a case-by-case basis as to the removal of trees where topography and/or utility installation is a factor. Special consideration should be given to maintaining the natural topography of the land when possible, and to applying existing trees to the development of a site. The zoning administrator shall have final approval of the site. Failure to follow the approved development plan shall result in denial of the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(e)
Unnecessary removal of trees or other vegetation shall be prohibited. The planting of grass or other ground covers shall not supersede the requirement for trees as indicated by each zoning district.
(f)
Efforts should be taken to preserve existing trees, especially those trees which are eight inches dbh or larger and which are of a considerable age but not dying or diseased. The preservation of large specimen trees is encouraged.
(g)
It is desirable that planted trees be ecologically compatible with the site and neighborhood.
(h)
Replacement trees shall be planted in a manner that will provide adequate space for nourishment, light, and maturation.
