ARTICLE VII. - SWIMMING POOLS

Sec. 6-160. - Swimming pool code adopted by reference.
There is hereby adopted by reference as fully and to the same extent as if set out at length herein, subject to all amendments and conflicting provisions contained in this Code of Ordinances, that certain published code known as the Standard Swimming Pool Code, latest edition as adopted and amended by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs (DCA) one (1) copy of which is on file with the office of clerk of the city, which shall be the official copy of such code and so designated by the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 286, § 6, 7-8-85; Ord. No. 440, § 17, 12-12-94; Ord. No. 501, § 8, 1-12-98)
Sec. 6-161. - Temporary enclosure required; inspection of construction; penalties.
(a)
At such time as the swimming pool construction permit is obtained, the permanent fence construction permit shall also be obtained by the person(s) receiving the swimming pool construction permit.
(b)
Upon obtaining the proper permits and before the construction of a swimming pool has begun, the property owner shall construct a fence/barrier of a temporary or permanent type that shall generally conform with the requirements of a permanent fence/barrier required upon completion of the swimming pool.
(c)
The permanent fence/barrier that is required pursuant to the standard swimming pool code shall be constructed and in its final form prior to the final inspection of the swimming pool by the city building inspector and issuance of the certificate of completion.
(d)
The failure of the property owner to comply with the provisions of this article or any other portion of the requirements regarding construction of a swimming pool of barrier shall result in a fine in the amount of no less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00). Each day that the property owner shall fail to comply with the requirements of this ordinance shall be deemed a separate and independent offense.
(Ord. No. 534, § 1, 7-24-2000)
Secs. 6-162—6-169. - Reserved.
