Chapter 10 - FINANCE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Occupational license taxes, Ch. 14.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Fiscal year; budget year.
(a)
The fiscal year of the city shall begin on the first day of July and end on the thirtieth day of June.
(b)
The fiscal year shall constitute the budget year of the city.
(Code 1965, § 11-12)
Secs. 10-2—10-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BUDGET

Sec. 10-20. - Nature and scope.
(a)
The budget of the city shall present a complete financial plan for the ensuing budget year.
(b)
The budget shall set forth:
(1)
All proposed expenditures for the administration, operation and maintenance of all offices, departments, boards, commissions and activities, including publicly owned and operated utilities and enterprises.
(2)
The actual or estimated operating deficits from prior years.
(3)
All interest and debt redemption charges during the budget year.
(4)
Expenditures for capital projects to be undertaken or executed during the budget year, including expenditures for local improvements which may be paid for in whole or in part by special assessments.
(5)
The anticipated income and other means of financing the proposed expenditures for the fiscal year.
(Code 1965, § 11-13)
Sec. 10-21. - Budget document.
The budget document shall consist of three (3) parts, the nature and contents of which shall be as follows:
(1)
Part I shall consist of a budget message prepared by the city manager which shall outline the fiscal policy of the city for the fiscal year, describing in connection therewith the important features of the budget plan; it shall also embrace a general budget summary setting forth the aggregate figures of the budget in such manner as to show the balanced relations between the total proposed expenditures and the total anticipated income and other means of financing the budget for the ensuing fiscal year, contrasted with the corresponding figures for the last completed fiscal year and the year in progress. The general budget summary shall be supported by explanatory schedules or statements, classifying the expenditures contained therein by organization units, sources and funds.
(2)
Part II shall contain the detailed budget estimates both of expenditures and revenues as provided for in section 10-20. It shall also include statements of the bonded indebtedness of the city showing the debt redemption requirements, the debt authorized and unissued, the condition of any sinking funds, and the borrowing capacity; in addition thereto, it shall contain any statements relative to the financial plan which the city manager may deem desirable or which may be required by the governing body.
(3)
Part III shall contain complete drafts of the budget ordinances; that is, the ordinances required to give legal sanction to the financial plan when adopted by the governing body. These ordinances shall include an appropriation ordinance, authorizing by spending agencies and funds, all expenditures of the city for budget year; and such other ordinances as may be required to provide the income necessary to finance the budget.
(Code 1965, § 11-14)
Sec. 10-22. - Preparation.
At least sixty (60) days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year, all departments, offices, boards and other spending agencies of the city shall prepare and submit to the city manager estimates of their expenditure requirements and their estimated revenues for the forthcoming budget year, compared with the corresponding figures of the last completed fiscal year and the estimated figures for the year in progress. The expenditure estimates shall be classified to set forth the data by funds, organizations, units, character, and objects of expenditure; the organization units may be subclassified by functions and activities at the discretion of the city manager. The revenue estimates shall be classified so as to show the receipts by funds, organization units and sources of income.
(1)
The city manager shall review the estimates, altering, revising, increasing or decreasing the items of such estimates as such officer shall deem necessary in view of the needs of the various spending agencies and the probable income of the city. The city manager shall then prepare a budget in the form required by the provisions of section 10-21.
(2)
The city manager shall transmit the budget to the governing body at least thirty (30) days before the beginning of the fiscal year.
(Code 1965, § 11-15)
Cross reference— Budget year, § 10-1.
Sec. 10-23. - Hearing; publication of budget prior to hearing.
(a)
Final action shall not be taken on the proposed budget until at least one public hearing has been held thereon after ten (10) days' notice thereof.
(b)
The governing body shall arrange for and hold such hearing.
(c)
The budget, when submitted by the city manager to the governing body, shall be published, advertised or otherwise made available for public inspection at least ten (10) days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Code 1965, § 11-16)
Sec. 10-24. - Adoption of budget ordinance.
At least one (1) week after the conclusion of the hearing required in section 10-23, the governing body shall consider the budget as submitted to it by the city manager and shall adopt a budget ordinance making appropriations in such sums as the governing authority may deem sufficient, whether greater or less than the sums presented in the proposed budget. The budget ordinance shall be adopted at a public meeting which shall be advertised at least one week prior to the meeting.
(Code 1965, § 11-17; Ord. No. 718, § 1, 6-14-10)
Editor's note— Section 1 of Ord. No. 718, adopted June 14, 2010, changed the title of § 10-24 from "Adoption; publication of budget summary after adoption" to "Adoption of budget ordinance."
Sec. 10-25. - Appropriations—Form.
(a)
The appropriation ordinance, provided for in section 10-21, shall be drawn in such form as to authorize only lump sum appropriations to meet the expenditure needs of the various spending agencies of the municipal government.
(b)
For the operation and maintenance expenses of each department, office, board or other spending agency, there shall be a single appropriation, which shall be allotted as provided in section 10-29 before becoming available for expenditure.
(c)
Appropriations for the acquisition of property shall be in such detail under each spending agency as the city manager shall determine; provided, however, that such appropriations shall not be segregated into greater detail than the major classes, or projects, for which they are expendable.
(Code 1965, § 11-18)
Sec. 10-26. - Same—Effect of failure to make.
If at the termination of any fiscal year, the appropriations necessary for the support of the municipal government of the city for the ensuing fiscal year shall not have been made, the several amounts appropriated in the last appropriation ordinance for the objects and purposes therein specified, so far as the same shall relate to the operation and maintenance expenses, shall be deemed to be reappropriated for the several objects and purposes specified in the last appropriation ordinance; and until the governing body shall act in such behalf, the treasurer shall make the payments necessary for the support of the municipal government on the basis of the appropriations of the preceding fiscal year.
(Code 1965, § 11-19)
Sec. 10-27. - Same—Additional.
The governing body may, during a fiscal year, make additional appropriations or increase existing appropriations to meet emergencies. The funds therefor shall be provided from unappropriated revenues, if any, or from temporary loans. Such temporary loans shall be repaid at an annual rate equivalent to not less than two (2) mills upon the assessed valuation of real property within the city.
(Code 1965, § 11-20)
Sec. 10-28. - Same—Transfer.
The governing body may authorize the transfer within the same fund of any unencumbered appropriation balance or any portion thereof from one spending agency under its jurisdiction to another. Such action shall be taken only on the recommendation of the city manager, and only during the last six (6) months of the fiscal year.
(Code 1965, § 11-21)
Sec. 10-29. - Allotments.
(a)
Immediately before the beginning of the fiscal year, the city manager shall require the head of each spending agency to submit a work program for the budget year, which program shall include all appropriations for operation and maintenance expenditures and for the acquisition of property. Such work program shall show the requested allotments and appropriations for such spending agency by months for the entire year.
(b)
The city manager shall review the requested allotments in the light of the work program of the spending agency concerned, and shall, if deemed necessary, revise, alter or change such allotments before approving them.
(c)
The aggregate of such allotments shall not exceed the total appropriations available to the spending agency for the budget year.
(d)
The city manager shall transmit copies of the approved allotments to the head of the spending agency concerned and to the city treasurer.
(e)
The treasurer shall authorize all expenditures to be made from the appropriations on the basis of such allotments, and not otherwise.
(f)
The head of any spending agency of the municipal government, whenever such head shall deem it necessary by reason of changed conditions, may revise the work program of such person's agency at the beginning of any month during the budget year and submit such revised program to the city manager with a request for a revision of the allotments for the remaining months of the budget year. If, upon a re-examination of the work program, the city manager shall grant the request for a revision of the allotments, the same procedure, so far as it relates to review, approval and control, shall be followed as in making the original allotments.
(g)
In order to provide funds for possible emergencies arising during the budget year in the operation and maintenance expenditures of the various spending agencies of the municipal government, the city manager may require the head of each spending agency, in making the original allotments, to set aside at least five (5) per cent of the total amount appropriated as a reserve. At any time during the budget year, this reserve, or any portion of it, may be returned to the appropriation to which it belongs and be added to any one or more of the allotments, provided the city manager shall deem such action necessary, and shall notify the city treasurer of such action. Any unused portion thereof shall remain at the end of the budget period as an unexpended balance of appropriation.
(Code 1965, § 11-22)
Sec. 10-30. - When contracts and expenditures prohibited.
(a)
No officer, employee or agent of the city shall expend or contract to be expended any money or incur any liability, or enter into any contract which, by its terms, involves the expenditure of money for any purposes for which provision is made in the appropriation ordinance in excess of the amounts appropriated in such ordinance for that fiscal year.
(b)
Any contract, verbal or written, made in violation of this section shall be null and void as an obligation of the city, and no moneys belonging to the city shall be paid thereon; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the making of contracts for governmental services for a period exceeding one year, but any contract so made shall be executory only for the amounts agreed to be paid for such services to be rendered in succeeding fiscal years.
(Code 1965, § 11-23)
