Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated the "Code of Ordinances, City of Cairo, Georgia," and may be so cited; it may also be cited as "City Code", or "COCC".
Sec. 1-2. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the sections, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
Sec. 1-3. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances and resolutions passed by the mayor and council, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council:
Generally. Words shall be construed in their common and usual significance unless the contrary is clearly indicated.
City. The words "the city" or "this city" shall mean the City of Cairo in the County of Grady and State of Georgia.
City clerk, chief of police or other city officers. The words "city clerk," "chief of police" or other city officers or departments shall be construed to mean the city clerk, chief of police of such other municipal officers or departments, respectively, of the City of Cairo, Georgia.
Code. Whenever the term "Code" or "this Code" or "COCC" is referred to without further qualification, it shall mean the "Code of Ordinances, City of Cairo, Georgia," as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall be counted in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
County. The term "county" or "this county" shall mean Grady County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision of this Code requires or authorizes an officer or employee of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize the officer or employee to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the act or duty unless the terms of the provision specifically provide otherwise.
Gender. A word implying one gender shall extend and be applied to the other genders, where appropriate.
In the city. The words "in the city" or "within the city" shall mean any territory, jurisdiction of which, for the exercise of its regulatory power, has been conferred on the city by law.
Joint authority. Words purporting to give authority to three (3) or more officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons, unless it is otherwise declared.
May. The word "may" is permissive.
Mayor and council, council, city council, governing body, governing authority. Whenever the term "mayor and council", "council," "city council," "governing body" or "governing authority," is used in this Code, it shall mean the Mayor and Council of the City of Cairo, Georgia.
Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Number. Any word importing the singular number shall include the plural and any word importing the plural number shall include the singular.
Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
Occupant or tenant. The word "occupant" or "tenant," applied to a building or land, shall mean any person who holds a written or oral lease or who actually occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Official time standard. Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the city.
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, corporations, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The word "property" shall mean real, personal or mixed property.
Public grounds. The words "public grounds" shall mean the parks and all public lands owned by the city, and those parts of public places which do not form travelled parts of streets, as defined in this section.
Shall. The word "shall" is mandatory.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of the street between the curb or the lateral line of the roadway, and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall include any highway, alley, street, avenue or public place or square, bridge, viaduct, underpass, overpass, tunnel or causeway in the city, dedicated or devoted to public use.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Written or in writing. The words "written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
Where not otherwise provided in this Code, the same rules shall be applied in construing the provisions of this Code and ordinances of this city as are applied in construing the statutes of this state, which rules are found in O.C.G.A. §§ 1-3-1 through 1-3-3, and the same meanings are to be given words found in this Code and the ordinances as are given similar words found in the statutes of this state.
Sec. 1-4. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not review any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
Sec. 1-6. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the governing body that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable and, if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the governing body without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
Sec. 1-7. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the governing body. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the governing body during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code, and shall also include all amendments to the charter during the period. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _______ to _______" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but, in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(d)
All additions and amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the governing body to make the same a part hereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated in this Code so that reference to the "Code of Ordinances, City of Cairo, Georgia," shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or made or declared to be unlawful or in offense, or whenever in such code or ordinance the doing of any act is required, or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefore, the punishment for violation of such provisions of this Code or any such ordinance shall be fixed by the municipal court by a fine in such amount as is permitted by state law or imprisonment for such time as is permitted by state law and subject to all limitations contained in the Charter of the city. Each day any violation of this Code or any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
In addition to the penalties hereinabove provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance, and may be abated by the city as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Ord. No. 588 § 1, 4-28-03; Ord. No. 781, § 1, 4-25-16)
Cross reference— Jurisdiction of municipal court, § 9-3.
State Law reference— Abatement of nuisances in cities, OCGA § 41-2-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-9. - Amendments subject to general penalty.
In case of the amendment by the mayor and council of any section of this Code for which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in section 1-8 of this Code shall apply to the section as amended; or in case such amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the aforementioned general penalty is provided in another section in the same chapter, the penalty so provided in such other section shall be held to relate to the section so amended, unless such penalty is specifically repealed therein.
Sec. 1-10. - Judgments and sentences to run consecutively.
All judgments and sentences imposed and ordered by the municipal judge shall run consecutively unless otherwise specifically provided by said judge in such judgments and sentences.
Sec. 1-11. - Ordinances continued in force.
Nothing in this Code or in any ordinance adopting or amending this Code shall repeal or modify the following, except as may be otherwise provided:
(1)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness;
(2)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(3)
Any ordinance prescribing zoning or subdivision regulations, or zoning particular property, or approving any plat;
(4)
Any right or franchise granted by the city;
(5)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or other public way in the city;
(6)
Any ordinance amending the charter;
(7)
Any civil defense or emergency management ordinance;
(8)
Any appropriation or budget ordinance;
(9)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective only for a stated or limited time;
(10)
Any ordinance prescribing a classification and compensation plan for city personnel, or any retirement plan;
(11)
Any ordinance not in conflict with this Code regulating traffic on specific streets or portions thereof or in specific areas of the city;
(12)
Any ordinance levying any tax;
(13)
Any ordinance establishing any board or commission, not in conflict with this Code;
(14)
Any ordinance enacted after the date of the last ordinance included in this Code;
(15)
Any ordinance altering the city boundaries.
