Chapter 19 - SUBDIVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 512, adopted Dec. 14, 1998, enacted new subdivision provisions. Arts. I—XII of such ordinance have been set out herein as a new Ch. 19, §§ 19-1—19-5, 19-6, 19-7—19-15, 19-26—19-31, 19-41—19-44, 19-51—19-61, 19-71—19-83, 19-91—19-100, 19-111—19-118, 19-131—19-135, 19-146—19-148, 19-157, 19-158. For the specific derivation of each section, see the history note following the section. The provisions of Art. XIII, repeal and severability, are not set out herein inasmuch as they are covered in Ch. 1 of this Code; however, it should be noted that § 13.03 provided:
"Whenever the provisions of this Ordinance and those of other ordinances or statutes apply to the same subject matter, that ordinance requiring the highest or strictest standard shall govern."
Formerly, Ch. 19 pertained to the same subject matter and was derived from Ch. 29 of the 1965 Code as subsequently amended. See the Code Comparative Table at the back of this volume for disposition of amendatory ordinances.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 19-1. - Short title.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Subdivision Ordinance of Cairo, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 512, § 1.01, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-2. - Authority.
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority delegated to the City of Cairo under the Georgia Constitution.
(Ord. No. 512, § 1.02, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-3. - Purpose.
The expressed purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare through the implementation of standards which will:
(1)
Encourage the development of sound and stable neighborhoods;
(2)
Assure the provision of adequate streets, utilities, and other facilities and services to new land development projects; and
(3)
Ensure orderly community growth and development, supplement and facilitate the provisions in the community's plans, zoning ordinance, official map and capital budget.
(Ord. No. 512, § 1.03, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-4. - Jurisdiction.
This chapter shall govern all subdivision of land within the city limits of Cairo, Georgia as now or hereafter established.
(Ord. No. 512, § 1.04, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-5. - Application and recording fees.
The city will establish a nonrefundable fee schedule to help cover the costs of administering the subdivision chapter. Such application fees shall be submitted with the preliminary or final plat and, upon acceptance of said plat for review and consideration, shall be deposited into the treasury of the city. Failure to pay such fees as required shall cause the plat to be returned to the applicant without acceptance for review or consideration by the city. In addition, recording fees for plats and restrictive covenants shall be paid by the developer upon approval of the final plat. The city will then submit the plats and covenants for recording in the office of the clerk of superior court.
(Ord. No. 512, § 1.05, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-6. - Definitions.
Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall, for the purpose of this chapter, have the meaning herein indicated:
Access: The right to cross between public and private property, thereby permitting pedestrians and vehicles to enter and leave property.
Accessory structure: Any structure that is a detached, subordinate structure, the use of which is clearly incidental to, customarily associated with and related to the principal structure or use of land and which is located on the same lot as the principal structure or use. Accessory structure shall include storage buildings, tool houses, pool houses, tree houses, entrance gates to individual homes or subdivisions and other similar uses. Mailboxes shall not be considered accessory structures.
Alley: A service roadway providing a secondary means of public access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
Base flood elevation: Indicates the water surface elevation of the base flood as referenced to the National Geodetic Vertical datum of 1929 or other datum if specified. New or substantially improved, remodeled or damaged properties in the flood zone must build one (1) foot above the BFE.
Buffer strip: Open spaces, landscaped areas, fences, walls, berms, or any combination thereof used to physically separate or screen one use or property from another so as to visually shield or block noise, lights, or other nuisances.
Building official: The official who is employed by the city for the purpose of building inspection, construction codes enforcement, and the administration of all non-health related city building and land development regulations.
Building line: Building lines are such lines as are established in a plat or by recorded restrictive covenants for the purpose of prohibiting construction of any portion of a building or structure between such line and any easement, right-of-way, or minimum permissible width. This line shall at least coincide with the required setback line.
City: This shall mean the City of Cairo.
Collector street: Refers to a street which carries traffic from minor streets to the major system of arterial streets or highways, including the principal entrance streets of residential development and streets for circulation within such a development.
Commercial subdivision: All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots, any one of which shall contain a gross area less than or equal to twenty-five (25) acres, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of development, sale, or lease of land for commercial and/or office use.
Commission: Refers to the City Planning Commission.
Comprehensive plan: Cairo's adopted long-range plan.
Construction standards: The current edition of printed specifications and standard drawings governing construction within the city as issued by the city clerk.
Concept plan: A preliminary presentation of a proposed subdivision site plan of sufficient accuracy to be used for the purpose of discussion.
Cul-de-sac: A local street with only one (1) outlet and having the other end for reversal of traffic movement.
Dedication: Is the deliberate appropriation of land by its owner for any general and public uses, reserving to such owner's self no other rights than such as are compatible with the full exercise and enjoyment of the public uses to which the property has been devoted.
Development plan: The Grady County Comprehensive Plan, which may consist of the thoroughfare plan, general land use plan, street and road classification plan, other maps, data and descriptive matter for the physical planned development of Grady County or any portion thereof, including any amendments, extensions, or additions thereto.
Driveway: A vehicular access way in private ownership, other than a private street, which generally provides access to only one (1) property.
Easement: A grant of one (1) or more of the property rights by the property owner to and/or for use by the public, a corporation, or another person or entity.
Feeder street: See Collector street.
Final approval: The official action of the city council taken on a subdivision after all conditions, engineering plans, and other requirements have been completed, and the required improvements have been installed, or guarantees posted for their completion.
Final plat: The final map of all or a portion of a subdivision which is presented for final approval.
Flag lot: A lot fronting on a public road where access to the public road is by a private right-of-way, easement or drive. The lot easement shall not be less than twenty (20) feet in width to accommodate a private drive and utility easements. Flag lots are not intended to provide access to other properties so as to circumvent the street and right-of-way requirements of the subdivision regulations. Flag lots are intended to provide access to extremely deep tracts of land for residential purposes. As such, the lot must meet the lot width requirements at the building line. No more than two (2) lots may be served by the same private drive or easement.
Floodways: The natural channel and the portion of the flood plain along the channel which must be retained solely for the passage of floodwaters to prevent an undue increase in flood heights upstream. Water travels at a high velocity in the floodway.
Flood hazard area: The channel and relatively flat area adjoining the channel of a natural stream, river, or body of water subject to flooding during major storm events. Specifically, such designation shall refer to (1) those areas within the city identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as being subject to flooding and delineated on flood insurance rate maps, or (2) particular areas of the city which, based on actual observation of flooding or engineering studies, have been designated as local flood hazard areas by the planning commission.
Half-street: Refers to a street generally parallel and adjacent to the boundary of a tract, having a lesser right-of-way than required for a full width of the type involved.
Inverted crown: Refers to roads built with the centerline being the lowest point in the cross section of the road. All storm drainage is routed to the center of the roads where it flows down the roads (the road acts as a ditch).
Land-disturbing activity: Any land change which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land.
Lot: An undivided portion of land, which is designated as a distinct and separate tract, and identified by a tract number, lot number or symbol on an approved subdivision plat, properly recorded which is or may in the future be offered for sale, conveyance, transfer, or improvement. Also tract or plat or any other area with a similar designation, all mean the same for the purpose of this chapter.
Existing substandard lot: A lot not meeting the minimum square footage requirement and other development standards.
Landlocked lot. A lot without the required road frontage which will not meet the access requirements. Landlocked lots may only be accessed by the establishment of a perpetual easement. The easement shall not be less than twenty (20) feet in width to accommodate a private drive and utility easements. The lot must meet the lot width requirements at the building line. No more than two (2) lots may be served by the same private drive or easement.
Outlets: Outlets are parcels of land lying within the boundaries of a platted subdivision but not included as a numbered lot.
Lot width: The distance between the side lot lines, measured at the building line, and parallel to the street right-of-way line.
Major arterial: Serves the major traffic movements within urbanized areas, such as between central business districts and outlying residential areas between major intercity communities, or between major suburban centers. Serves a major portion of the trips entering and leaving the urban area, as well as the majority of the through traffic desiring to bypass the central city. Also provides continuity for all rural arterials that intercept the urban area.
Marginal access street: Is a minor street which is parallel and adjacent to an arterial street or highway and which provides access to abutting properties and protection from traffic.
Maintenance guarantee: Any security which may be required and accepted to ensure that necessary improvements will function as required for a specific period of time.
Minor arterial: Serves trips of moderate length at a somewhat lower level of travel mobility than principal arterials. Provides access to geographic areas smaller than those served by the higher system. Also provides intracommunity continuity but does not penetrate identifiable neighborhoods.
Minor street: Is a street which is used primarily for access to abutting property.
Parkway: Is a street with limited access on an exceptional right-of-way permitting marginal greenway for landscaping.
Performance bond: Is any security that may be accepted by a municipality to assure that improvements required as part of an application for development will be satisfactorily completed.
Planned unit development (PUD): A subdivision planned to include open space, and a variety of housing types, which would also permit other land uses, including multifamily structures, churches, schools and commercial activities.
Planning commission: The planning commission duly appointed by the City of Cairo.
Pre-application conference: An informal meeting between developers and municipal representatives which affords developers the opportunity to present their plans informally.
Preliminary plat approval: The conferral of certain rights prior to final plat approval after specific elements of a development plan have been agreed upon by the city council and the applicant.
Preliminary subdivision plat: A map indicating the proposed layout of a planned development that is submitted for preliminary approval.
Right-of-way: Is land reserved, used or to be used for a street, alley, walkway, drainage facility or other public purpose.
Setback: The distance between the street right-of-way line and the front line of a building, or any projection thereof, excluding uncovered steps.
Sight distance: Is the minimum extent of an unobstructed forward vision (in a horizontal plane) along a street from a vehicle located at any given point on a street.
Sketch plan: Is an informal plan indicating the salient existing features of the site and its surroundings, as described in article II of this chapter, and the general layout of a proposed subdivision.
Soil erosion and sedimentation control plan: A plan for the control of soil erosion and sediment resulting from a land-disturbing activity. Five (5) copies of this plan are required to be delivered to the city building official for dispersal to the appropriate reviewers along with a land-disturbing permit application. Approval of the plan by the natural resource conservation services office is required prior to preliminary plat consideration.
State waters: Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership or corporation.
Subdivision: Subdivision means all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots, building sites or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy or building development and includes all division of land involving or not involving a new street or a change in existing streets, and includes resubdivision, recombination and, where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing. There are two (2) types of subdivisions, major and minor, both having separate administrative and approval processes.
Subdivision, major: All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into five (5) or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or building development, and all subdivisions involving a new street or a change in existing streets, and includes resubdivision.
Subdivision, minor: The subdivision of a tract of land into not more than four (4) lots in which there are no roadway, drainage or other required improvements; where each lot has frontage on a public street, where there is adequate provision for potable water supply and waste water management for each lot and where the resultant lots comply with the standards of this chapter and includes the following:
(1)
The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the standards of the subdivision regulations and the zoning ordinance.
Subdivider: The person, firm or corporation having such proprietary interest in the land to be subdivided as will authorize the maintenance of proceedings to subdivide such land under this chapter, or the authorized agent of such person, firm or corporation for the purpose of proceeding under this chapter.
Street: Means, relates to, and includes, streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, highways, expressways, lanes, alleys and other ways.
(1)
Arterial streets and highways are those which are used primarily for fast or heavy traffic and includes all federal, state and paved county roads.
(2)
Major arterials are streets with access control, channelized intersections, restricted parking, and which collects and distributes traffic to and from minor arterials.
(3)
Minor arterials serve trips of moderate length at a somewhat lower level of travel mobility than principal arterials; provide access to geographic areas smaller than those served by the higher system; also provides intracommunity continuity but does not penetrate identifiable neighborhoods.
(4)
Collector or feeder streets are those which carry traffic from minor or access streets to the major system of arterial streets and highways and promise a traffic potential greater than that of minor streets.
(5)
Minor streets are those which are used primarily for access to the abutting properties.
(6)
Cul-de-sacs are streets with a single common ingress and egress.
(7)
Dead end streets are those streets with only one (1) end open to vehicular traffic and not provided with a vehicle turn-around at the other end.
(8)
Alleys are minor ways which are used primarily for vehicular service access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
Usable area: The net usable portion of a lot, tract, or stand, not including any additional property within the legal boundaries of the parcel which by virtue of permanent or seasonal inundation by surface water, crossing by rights-of-way or easements, steep slopes, and the like, is not suitable for the construction of habitable structures or drain fields.
Wetlands: Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
Zoning ordinance: Refers to the City of Cairo's zoning ordinance.
(Ord. No. 512, § 2.01, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-7. - Plats required.
After the effective date of this chapter or revisions thereof, no person shall commence public improvements on subdivided land within the legal jurisdiction of Cairo, prior to the approval of the preliminary plat of such land in accordance with the provisions hereof. No real property within the legal jurisdiction of Cairo shall be divided and offered for sale until a final plat thereof is approved by the city council and recorded in accordance with the provisions hereof. No construction on such lots shall commence prior to the approval of the final plat. In the case where a subdivision improvement agreement is in effect, no construction on such lots shall commence prior to the certification by the city engineer that improvements are adequate to meet the city standards.
All preliminary and final plats shall bear the seal of a surveyor or engineer registered in the State of Georgia in order to verify the standards followed and accuracy of the plat.
Building permits shall not be issued for structures located in a subdivision created subsequent to the adoption of this chapter unless a final plat of such subdivision has been approved and recorded as provided herein.
In the event that no improvements are made to land approved for subdivision within one (1) year, the re-submittal of the preliminary plat shall be required.
(Ord. No. 512, § 3.01, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-8. - Conformance to standards for public health and environmental protection.
The developer, in so far as such regulations may pertain to his or her particular project, is responsible for meeting all applicable federal, state, and county regulations concerning the provision of safe drinking water, sewage treatment, erosion and sedimentation control, and impacts on wetlands and waters of the state.
(Ord. No. 512, § 3.02, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-9. - Conformance to standards for streets, utilities and other infrastructure.
All roads, streets, alleys, utilities and other required infrastructure that are to be used by the general public shall be constructed in accordance with the standards fixed by this chapter or other applicable city standards. No improvements shall be accepted for city maintenance unless the provisions of this chapter have been met. Official approval of a developer's plan constitutes no implied responsibility on the city for any assistance in construction, either in materials or labor or equipment, this being the responsibility of the developer unless otherwise agreed to by written authorization of the city council.
(Ord. No. 512, § 3.03, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-10. - Erection of buildings.
No building permit shall be issued and no building shall be erected on any lot within the legal jurisdiction of Cairo unless the street giving access thereto has been accepted as a public street in accordance with this chapter, or unless such street had attained the status of a public street prior to the effective date of this chapter, or on a street accepted by the City of Cairo.
(Ord. No. 512, § 3.04, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-11. - Public street access.
No sale of lots, or building on any lot within Cairo shall be allowed unless the street giving access thereto has been accepted as a public street, or unless such street has obtained the status of a public street prior to the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 512, § 3.05, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-12. - Suitability of land.
Land subject to flooding, improper drainage, or erosion or that is for topographical or other reasons unsuitable for residential use shall not be platted for residential use or any other use that will continue to increase the danger to health, safety or proper construction unless hazards can be and are corrected.
(Ord. No. 512, § 3.06, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-13. - Hardship variances.
Where the city council finds that because of topographic or other conditions peculiar to the site, literal enforcement of a revision of this chapter may result, in an individual case, in unnecessary hardship to the developer, it may vary the regulations where, in the opinion of the city council such variation will not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of this chapter. Any variance shall be recorded in the minutes of the city council meeting together with the reasoning used to justify it. In granting variances and modifications, the city council may require such conditions as will secure substantially the objectives of the standards or requirements so varied and modified. Recommendations for hardship variances by the planning commission shall be subject to the approval of the Cairo City Council.
(Ord. No. 512, § 3.07, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-14. - House numbers/street addresses.
House numbers shall be assigned and street addresses shall be assigned by the building official after preliminary plat approval.
(Ord. No. 512, § 3.08, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-15. - Street, easements, alleys, etc.
The approval of final plat by the city council and its subsequent recording does not constitute acceptance by the city of any street, easement, alley or other grounds shown on the plat. This will be done by dedication and by acceptance resolution of the city council.
(Ord. No. 512, § 3.09, 12-14-98)
Secs. 19-16—19-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 19-26. - Improvements and subdivision improvement agreement (SIA).
(a)
Procedure: A subdivision improvement agreement may be utilized to expedite the subdivision approval process. Upon approval of the preliminary plat of a major subdivision, the developer may submit a final plat along with a subdivision improvement agreement to the planning commission for review and recommendation to the city council. The planning commission's recommendation shall be forwarded to the city council within forty-five (45) days or shall be determined to be approved if no recommendation has been forwarded in this time period. Upon approval of the final plat and formal acceptance of the service improvement agreement by the city council, the final plat will be recorded and the subdivided lots may be sold.
(b)
Completion of improvements: Before the final subdivision plat is signed by the mayor of the city council, all applicants shall be required to complete, in accordance with the city council's decision and to the satisfaction of the city engineer, all the street, sanitary and other public improvements, including lot improvements on the individual lots of the subdivision, as required in this chapter, specified in the final subdivision plat and as approved by the city council, and to dedicate those public improvements to the City of Cairo, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances on the dedicated property and public improvements.
(c)
Subdivision improvement agreement and performance guarantee:
(1)
Agreement. A subdivision improvement agreement shall consist of both a performance bond and a maintenance bond. The city council in its sole discretion may waive the requirement that the applicant complete and dedicate all public improvements prior to approval of the final subdivision plat. As an alternative, the city council may permit the applicant to enter into a subdivision improvement agreement by which the subdivider posts both a performance and a maintenance security with the City of Cairo and covenants to complete all required public improvements no later than one (1) year following the date on which the mayor signs the final subdivision plat on behalf of the city council. The applicant shall covenant to maintain each required public improvement for a period of two (2) years following the date that the city engineer certifies that all improvements have been satisfactorily installed and also shall warrant that all required public improvements will be free from defect for a period of two (2) years following the certification by the city engineer that all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed. The subdivision improvement agreement shall contain such other terms and conditions agreed to by the applicant and the city council.
(2)
Covenants to run. The subdivision improvement agreement shall provide that the covenants contained in the agreement shall run with the land and bind all successors, heirs, and assignees of the subdivider. The subdivision improvement agreement will be adopted by the city council, and when necessary, the city council, pursuant to applicable state and local laws and shall be recorded in the clerk and recorder's office of Grady County.
(3)
Performance security. Whenever the city council permits an applicant to enter into a subdivision improvement agreement, it shall require the applicant to provide an irrevocable letter of credit bond or cash escrow as a performance security for the promises contained in the subdivision improvement agreement. Either security shall be in an amount equal to one hundred twenty (120) percent of the estimated cost of completion of the required public improvements, including lot improvements. The issuer of the bond letter of credit or the escrow agent, as applicable, shall be acceptable to the city council.
a.
Letter of credit. If the applicant posts a letter of credit as security for its promises contained in the subdivision improvement agreement, the credit shall (1) be irrevocable; (2) be for a term sufficient to cover the completion, maintenance and warranty periods in subsection (c)(1); and (3) require only that the government present the credit with a sight draft and an affidavit signed by the city attorney attesting to the municipality's right to draw funds under the credit.
b.
Cash escrow. If the applicant posts a cash escrow as security for its promises contained in the subdivision improvement agreement, the escrow instructions shall provide: (1) That the subdivider will have no right to a return of any of the funds except as provided in section 19-27(b)(2); and (2) that the escrow agent shall have a legal duty to deliver the funds to the municipality whenever the city attorney presents an affidavit to the agent attesting to the municipality's right to receive funds whether or not the subdivider protests that right. If and when the applicant completes the required improvements in accordance with the municipality's construction standards and specifications, the performance security will be returned to the applicant.
(d)
Temporary improvement. The applicant shall build and pay for all costs of temporary improvements required by the city council and shall maintain those temporary improvements for the period specified by the city council. Prior to construction of any temporary facility or improvement, the developer shall file with the local government a separate subdivision improvement agreement and a letter of credit or cash escrow in an appropriate amount for temporary facilities, which agreement and credit or escrow shall ensure that the temporary facilities will be properly constructed, maintained, and removed.
(e)
Costs of improvement. All required improvements shall be made by the developer, at its expense, without reimbursement by the City of Cairo unless otherwise authorized in writing by the city council.
(f)
Governmental units. Governmental units to which these contract and security provisions apply may file, in lieu of the contract and security, a certified resolution or chapter from officers or agencies authorized to act in their behalf, agreeing to comply with the provisions of this article.
(g)
Failure to complete improvement. For subdivisions for which no subdivision improvement agreement has been executed and no security has been posted, if the improvements are not completed within the period specified by the city council in the resolution approving the plat, the sketch plat or preliminary plat approval shall be deemed to have expired. In those cases where a subdivision improvement agreement has been executed and security has been posted and required public improvements have not been installed within the terms of the agreement, the City of Cairo may then: (1) declare the agreement to be in default and require that all the improvements be installed regardless of the extent of the building development at the time the agreement is declared to be in default; (2) obtain funds under the security and complete improvements itself or through a third party; (3) assign its right to receive funds under the security to any third party, including a subsequent owner's promise to complete improvements in the subdivision; (4) exercise any other rights available under the law.
(h)
Acceptance of dedication offers. Acceptance of formal offers of dedication of streets, public areas, easements, and parks shall be by chapter of the city council. The approval of a subdivision plat by the city council, whether sketch, preliminary or final, shall not be deemed to constitute or imply the acceptance by the municipality of any street, easement, or park shown on plat. The city council shall require the plat to be endorsed with appropriate notes to this effect.
(Ord. No. 512, § 4.01, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-27. - Inspection of improvements.
(a)
General procedure and fees. The city council shall provide for inspection of required improvements during construction and ensure their satisfactory completion. The applicant shall pay to the municipality an inspection fee based on the estimated cost of inspection, and where the improvements are completed prior to final plat approval, the subdivision plat shall not be signed by the mayor of the City of Cairo unless the inspection fee has been paid at the time of application. These fees shall be due and payable upon demand of the municipality and no building permits or certificates of occupancy shall be issued until all fees are paid. If the city engineer finds upon inspection that any one (1) or more of the required improvements have not been constructed in accordance with the municipality's construction standards and specifications, the applicant shall be responsible for property completing the improvements.
(b)
Release or reduction of performance bond.
(1)
Certificate of satisfactory completion. The city council shall not release nor reduce the amount of any performance bond posted by the subdivider until the city engineer has submitted a certificate stating that all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed and until (i) the applicant's engineer or surveyor has certified to the city engineer, through submission of a detailed "as-built" survey plat of the subdivision, indicating location, dimensions, materials, and other information required by the City of Cairo, that the layout of the line and grade of all public improvements is in accordance with construction plans for the subdivision, and (ii) a title insurance policy has been furnished to and approved by the city engineer, and city attorney.
(2)
Reduction of escrowed funds and performance security. If the performance security posted by the subdivider was a cash escrow, the amount of that escrow shall be released to the subdivider after the city engineer has submitted a certificate stating that all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed. Funds held in the escrow account shall not be released to the subdivider, in whole or in part, except upon express written instructions of the city attorney.
(Ord. No. 512, § 4.02, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-28. - Maintenance of improvements.
(a)
The developer shall be required to maintain all required public improvements on the individual subdivided lots for the entirety of the maintenance period. The City of Cairo shall require that the applicant post a maintenance security to insure the maintenance of such improvements. If there are any certificates of occupancy on a street not dedicated to the City of Cairo, the city may on twelve (12) hours' notice effect emergency repairs and charge those costs to the developer. Following the acceptance of the dedication of any public improvement by the city, the city may, in its sole discretion require the subdivider to maintain the improvement for a period of two (2) years from the date of acceptance. If a subdivision improvement agreement is in place, the city may require the subdivider to maintain the improvement for a period of two (2) years from the date that the city engineer certifies that the required improvements have been satisfactorily completed.
(b)
At the end of the maintenance and warranty periods, all escrowed funds, if any, shall be released to the subdivider. If the maintenance security provided by the subdivider was a letter of credit, the city attorney shall execute waivers of the municipality's right to draw funds under the credit, after the expiration of the maintenance period.
(Ord. No. 512, § 4.03, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-29. - Deferral or waiver of required improvements.
(a)
The city council may defer or waive at the time of final approval, subject to appropriate conditions, the provision of any or all public improvements as, in its judgment, are not requisite in the interests of the public health, safety, and general welfare, or which are inappropriate because of the inadequacy or in existence of connecting facilities. Any determination to defer or waive the provision of any public improvement must be made on the record and the reasons for the deferral or waiver also shall be expressly made on the record.
(b)
Whenever it is deemed necessary by the city council to defer the construction of any improvement required under this chapter because of incompatible grades, future planning, inadequate or nonexistent connecting facilities, or for other reasons, the subdivider shall pay his share of the costs of the future improvements to the city prior to signing of the final subdivision plat by the mayor of the city, or the developer may execute a separate subdivision improvement agreement secured by a letter of credit guaranteeing completion of the deferred improvements upon demand of the city.
(Ord. No. 512, § 4.04, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-30. - Issuance of building permits and certificates of occupancy.
(a)
When a subdivision improvement agreement and security have been required for a subdivision, no certificate of occupancy for any building in the subdivision shall be issued prior to the completion of the required public improvements or posting of a performance security adequate to cover remaining work and certification by the city engineer that the appropriate improvements have been satisfactorily completed.
(b)
Under an SIA, the extent of street improvement shall be adequate for vehicular access by the prospective occupant(s) and by police and fire equipment prior to the issuance of a building permit. The developer shall, at the time of the offer of dedication, submit moneys in escrow to the city in a sum determined by the city engineer for the necessary final improvement of the street.
(Ord. No. 512, § 4.05, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-31. - Consumer protection legislation and conflicts of interest statutes.
(a)
No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be granted or issued if a developer or its authorized agent has violated any federal, state or local law pertaining to (1) consumer protection; or (2) real estate land sales, promotion, or practices; or (3) any applicable conflicts-of-interest legislation with respect to the lot or parcel of land which is the subject of the permit or certificate until a court of competent jurisdiction so orders.
(b)
With respect to any lot or parcel of land described in the immediately preceding section, if a building permit or certificate of occupancy has been granted or issued, it may be revoked by the municipality until a court of competent jurisdiction orders otherwise, provided that in no event shall the rights of intervening innocent third parties in possession of a certificate of occupancy be prejudiced by any such revocation.
(c)
Any violation of a federal, state, or local consumer protection law, including, but not limited to: Postal Reorganization Act of 1970; Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act; the Truth in Lending Act; the Uniform Commercial Credit Code; state "Blue Sky" laws; state subdivision disclosure acts, or any conflicts of interest statute, law, or chapter shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subject to the appropriate penalties and proceedings.
(Ord. No. 512, § 4.06, 12-14-98)
Secs. 19-32—19-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PRE-DEVELOPMENT REVIEW

Sec. 19-41. - Pre-development review.
Prior to the filing of an application for the approval of a preliminary plat, the subdivider or his engineer shall consult with the building official to determine existing conditions within the site and its vicinity. The subdivider or his engineer shall review his proposed methods of sewage disposal, drainage, street improvements, and source of water for the proposed subdivision with the city building official, health department, public works director, city engineer and other appropriate officials for the purpose of facilitating the review process. Should the project front a state highway, the developer should begin the early review process with the Georgia Department of Transportation as quickly as possible.
The subdivider shall prepare and present a plan for sewage treatment prior to proceeding further with the preparation of plans or improvements for the subdivision.
(Ord. No. 512, § 5.01, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-42. - Required sketch plan for pre-development review.
It is recommended that a sketch plan of the proposed development be submitted at the pre-development review meeting. A sketch plan shall show in simple sketch form the proposed layout of streets, lots and other features in relation to existing conditions—the sketch plan may be a free-hand pencil sketch made directly on a print of the boundary survey. As far as may be practicable on the basis of a sketch, the designated staff shall advise the subdivider of the extent to which the proposed subdivision conforms to the standards of this chapter and other applicable chapters or statutes. In addition, the staff will advise the subdivider of other applicable requirements relating to soil erosion and sedimentation control requirements, and DOT access requirements, etc. The sketch plan shall identify the following items:
(1)
Type of development, i.e. residential, commercial, etc.;
(2)
Approximate tract boundaries and total acreage;
(3)
Proposed lot layout and approximate number of lots;
(4)
Streets on and adjacent to the tract and proposed general street layout;
(5)
Land characteristics including drainage patterns, marginal lands; and
(6)
Available community facilities and utilities;
(7)
Proposed utilities and street improvements; and
(8)
Proposed protective covenants.
(Ord. No. 512, § 5.02, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-43. - Soil and sedimentation review process.
The applicant is encouraged to meet with the Natural Resource Conservation Service Office (NRCS), Flint River District, with a rough draft or sketch plan of the proposed subdivision prior to submitting an application and preliminary plat. Although this step is not a requirement, it is helpful to aid these officials in advising the developer if a soil and sedimentation control plan is necessary.
If a proposed new subdivision will have new roads or drainage improvements or entails a significant amount of land-disturbing activity, the developer must submit a soil erosion and sedimentation control plan prior to plat approval. Five (5) copies of the soil erosion and sedimentation plan as well as a land-disturbing permit application will need to be delivered to the city building official to be dispensed to the health official, director of public works and the Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS) district office (formerly the Soil Conservation Service) for review. The review process may take up to forty-five (45) days from the date the plan is submitted. No land disturbing, i.e. road building, land clearing, drainage installation, etc. shall be performed until the preliminary plat has been approved, signed and land-disturbing permits issued.
(Ord. No. 512, § 5.03, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-44. - Georgia Department of Transportation Review.
Any subdivision located on a state highway must submit three (3) copies of preliminary plat to the Georgia DOT for review. A letter of recommendation from DOT should be presented with the submittal of the preliminary plat.
A subdivision application and preliminary plat should be presented at the same time that the soil and sedimentation control plan is submitted. No subdivision application will be placed on the agenda for the planning commission meeting until an approved soil and sedimentation control plan and land-disturbing permit is received with the application.
(Ord. No. 512, § 5.04, 12-14-98)
Secs. 19-45—19-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - MAJOR SUBDIVISION
DIVISION 1. - PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURE

Sec. 19-51. - General procedures.
Any person desiring to subdivide land shall file with the city building official the appropriate copies of the preliminary plat, which will be accompanied by a formal application, for distribution to appropriate departments and agencies. The plat shall be prepared in accordance with this chapter and to city specifications by a registered engineer, surveyor, or architect who is licensed under the laws of the State of Georgia.
After the registered land surveyor has completed the preliminary plat, per the development regulations, the developer must complete a subdivision application and present one (1) original mylar and seven (7) copies of the preliminary plat to the building official along with the appropriate fee per lot.
(Ord. No. 512, § 6.01, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-52. - Filing.
The preliminary plat shall be deemed filed with the city planning commission when it is filed with the city building official or other designated official. Plats must be filed at least ten (10) days before the date of the next regularly scheduled meeting of the planning commission in order to be included on its agenda for review. The planning commission's regular meeting date is the third Tuesday of each month.
(Ord. No. 512, § 6.02, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-53. - Fees.
The subdivider, at the time application is made for preliminary plat review, shall pay unto the city the appropriate fees as set by the city council. These fees shall be used to defray the city's cost of researching subdivision plats, including investigation of sanitary conditions, street construction and other detailed investigations of plats by city officials.
(Ord. No. 512, § 6.03, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-54. - Distribution and review.
Six (6) copies of the preliminary plat shall be distributed by the building official to the planning commission, the city clerk, the Grady County Department of Health, the city manager, city engineer and the Southwest Georgia RDC for review and recommendation to the planning commission. One (1) copy will be held for corrections and returned to the subdivider after it has been reviewed. Prior to the planning commission meeting, the county health department (if applicable), and the RDC will submit, in writing, copies of their recommendations to the city planning commission. Where the proposed development meets its requirements, the department of health shall so certify its conceptual approval of the development on one (1) or more copies of the preliminary plat as specified below. Recommendations from other agencies and departments may also be submitted.
(Ord. No. 512, § 6.04, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-55. - Recommendation by the planning commission.
The planning commission will review the subdivision plat and make a recommendation to approve or disapprove the plat to the city council. The recommendation of approval or disapproval of the preliminary plat by the planning commission shall be accomplished within forty-five (45) days after the date of the regularly scheduled planning commission meeting following submission of the application. If, after the forty-five (45) days, the planning commission has failed to render a recommendation, the recommendation on the preliminary plat shall be deemed as an approval by the planning commission and on demand, a copy shall be forwarded to the city council for review by the mayor and city council, provided that the subdivider may waive in writing this requirement and consent to an extension of such period. If the planning commission recommends denial of the preliminary plat, the reasons shall be so stated in the resolution and the subdivider shall be so advised. Upon a positive recommendation of a plat, the plat shall be forwarded to the city council for formal approval or disapproval.
(Ord. No. 512, § 6.05, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-56. - Approval/disapproval by the city council.
If the city council approves a preliminary plat, the developer must take the signed original and have four (4) copies made to be delivered back to the building official. If the city council does not approve the plat, the reasons for denial shall be so stated in writing and mailed to the developer for correction.
(Ord. No. 512, § 6.06, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-57. - Effect of preliminary plat approval.
Preliminary plat approval shall confer upon the applicant the following rights for a one (1) year period from the date of the preliminary approval:
(1)
That the general terms and conditions on which preliminary approval was granted shall not be changed;
(2)
The applicant may submit for final approval on or before the expiration date of preliminary approval, the whole or sections of the preliminary subdivision plat; and
(3)
The applicant may apply for and the city council may grant an extension on such preliminary approval for a specified time period.
(Ord. No. 512, § 6.07, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-58. - Preliminary platting requirements.
The preliminary plat may be of approximate accuracy within one- tenth ( 1/10 ) foot and of a legible scale, made directly on a print of a boundary survey.
The plat will include the following information:
(1)
Preliminary plat shall be drawn to a scale of not more than one hundred (100) feet to the inch, and shall show the following:
a.
Proposed subdivision name or identifying title and total acres.
b.
Name of owner of subdivision or his authorized agent, if any.
c.
Name of the registered professional engineer or surveyor responsible for the plat with date of survey indicated.
d.
The names of all owners and zoning of all land adjacent to the proposed subdivision and the names of the adjacent subdivisions.
e.
A vicinity map at a scale of not less than one (1) inch equals two (2) miles showing the location of the proposed subdivision.
f.
Street names, rights-of-way and roadway width; similar data for alleys, if any.
g.
Location of utilities, and other types of easements.
h.
Lot lines, lot and block numbers (consecutively numbered or lettered), lot sizes, area in parks, etc.
i.
Topographic maps of all land subdivided, with a two (2) foot scale contour interval, or where deemed appropriate by the city council (prior to preliminary plat submittal), a one (1) foot contour interval.
j.
Minimum building setback lines.
k.
Numerical scale, graphic scale, north arrow, date.
l.
All elevations shall be based on sea level datum as determined from geodetic control monuments or U.S. Geological Survey 7½ min. quad sheets. A statement on the plat shall indicate which standard is utilized.
m.
Delineation of all areas of the proposed subdivisions which lie within established Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) floodplains and/or state jurisdictional wetlands. The floodplain map number and panel as well as the type of flood zone should be inscribed on the plat if a property is located in a flood zone.
n.
Soil characteristics. Where the proposed subdivision is not to be served by a public or community sewage system, information on soil types and capabilities, frequency and evaluation of seasonal high groundwater tables, and occurrence of rock and other impervious strata shall be provided by the developer. This information should be superimposed on a copy of the plat showing contour lines and other natural features of the site. The frontage requirements for lots without water/and or sewer in Grady County is one hundred (100) feet.
o.
Location of all existing buildings of the proposed subdivision and all existing sewers, water mains, culverts, fire hydrants, underground or aboveground utilities on or adjacent to the proposed subdivision and the location of all water supplies on or off the subdivision which will bear upon the location of the on-site sewage management systems. The location of any wells located on adjoining land within one hundred (100) feet of the subject property line should be identified on the plat.
p.
All existing watercourses, drainage ditches, canals and bodies of water on or adjacent to proposed subdivision.
q.
Plans for stormwater management, including the proposed location of drainage ways, basins, and other improvements.
r.
A copy of a Natural Resource and Conservation Service (NRCS) approved land-disturbing permit and a plan for the control of soil erosion and sedimentation if required.
s.
Draft of proposed restrictive covenants, if any, and designation of areas subject to special restrictions.
t.
Add note "NOT FOR RECORDING" to be affixed on preliminary plat.
u.
A letter of recommendation from DOT should be presented to the planning commission prior to preliminary plat approval if the property accesses a state highway.
v.
Appropriate certificates for the signatures of the planning commission chairman, mayor and council, the city manager, the owner, and the Grady County Health Department.
w.
Where the proposed plat covers only a portion of the subdivider's entire holding, sketch shall be submitted showing the prospective street layout and proposed use for the remainder.
(Ord. No. 512, § 6.08, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-59. - Review and approval by the Grady County Department of Health.
Grady County Department of Health shall review the proposed subdivision for conformance with all applicable health and environmental standards falling within its regulatory jurisdiction.
(1)
Individual water or on site sewage disposal systems: If, in its judgment, the subdivision, or phase of the subdivision submitted for review, will meet the requirements of chapter 290-5-26 and Rule III Addendum, the following shall be inscribed on (i) a copy of the preliminary plat showing the characteristics of soils found within the boundaries of the development, and (ii) an original signed copy of the preliminary plat for transmittal to the planning commission:
GRADY COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Based on soils and associated information provided by the developer and an on-site inspection, this proposed subdivision has been approved as to its general suitability for the installation of on-site sewerage disposal systems, with any exceptions as noted. Final approval for individual installations can be given only if systems are built according to this Department's Regulations. This preliminary plat was given approval by the _______ County Department of Public Health on this_____day of________, 19_____.
Date________
________________
County Environmental Health
Specialist
(Ord. No. 512, § 6.09, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-60. - Certificates of preliminary plat approval.
At such time as the preliminary plat may be recommended for approval by the planning commission, city manager and approved by the city council, a certificate of approval shall be inscribed for signature on the plat provided that it has received the required certification by the county health department.
(1)
Certificate by the planning commission: Upon recommendation for approval by the planning commission, or after the required forty-five (45) days in which the commission has failed to act on a request for approval, the chairman of the commission shall inscribe on the plat the following:
City of Cairo

Recommendation of Preliminary Plat Approval

by the Cairo Planning Commission
Pursuant to the Subdivision Regulations of Cairo, Georgia, all the requirements for approval having been fulfilled, this Preliminary Plat was recommended for approval by the Cairo Planning Commission on this_____day of________, 19_____.
Date________
________________
Chairman-Planning-Commission
(2)
Certificate by the city manager: Upon approval by the city manager, the city manager shall inscribe on the plat the following:
City of Cairo

Recommendation of Preliminary Plat Approval

by the Cairo City Manager
Pursuant to the Subdivision Regulations of Cairo, Georgia, all the requirements for approval having been fulfilled, this Preliminary Plat was recommended for approval by the Cairo City Manager on this_____day of________, 19_____.
Date________
___________
City Manager
(3)
Certificate by the city council:
City of Cairo

Certificate of Preliminary Plat Approval

by the Mayor and city council
Pursuant to the Subdivision Regulations of Cairo, Georgia, all the requirements for approval having been fulfilled, this Preliminary Plat was approved by the Cairo Mayor and city council on this_____day of________, 19_____. This recommendation of approval does not constitute approval of a Final Plat. This Certificate of Approval shall expire and become null and void on________, 19_____, one (1) year from the above date of approval.
Date________
___________
Mayor, City of Cairo
(Ord. No. 512, § 6.10, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-61. - Construction of major subdivision improvements.
Construction of the subdivision improvements may commence only after the approval of the preliminary plat by the Cairo City Council. The developer shall arrange periodic inspections of the project by the appropriate city departments during the course of construction.
(Ord. No. 512, § 6.11, 12-14-98)
Secs. 19-62—19-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE

Sec. 19-71. - Time limits, phasing, sale of lots, recording.
The subdivider shall have up to one (1) year after approval of the preliminary plat in which to make required improvements and to submit a final plat. The final plat shall substantially conform with the approved preliminary plat. If desired by the subdivider, the final plat may constitute only that portion (phasing) of the preliminary plat he proposes to record and develop at that time. However, no sale of lots or construction on any individual lot shall begin until after approval of the final plat by the city council and its recording in Grady County Superior Court. Two (2) processes may be followed for final plat approval including the following:
(1)
Final plat approval following construction of improvements. Upon preliminary plat approval, the developer may initiate design and construction of major subdivision improvements. Upon completion of the improvements, the developer may submit a copy of the final plat depicting the subdivision as built for recommendation to the planning commission. The planning commission's recommendation shall be forwarded to the city council within forty-five (45) days or shall be determined to be approved if no recommendation has been forwarded in this time period. Upon formal acceptance/approval of the city council, the plat shall be recorded and the sales of individual lots can begin.
(2)
Final plat approval with service improvement agreement. A subdivision improvement agreement may be utilized to expedite the subdivision approval process. Upon approval of the preliminary plat of a major subdivision, the developer may submit a final plat along with a subdivision improvement agreement to the planning commission for review and recommendation to the city council. The planning commission's recommendation shall be forwarded to the city council within forty-five (45) days or shall be determined to be approved if no recommendation has been forwarded in this time period. Upon approval of the final plat and formal acceptance of the service improvement agreement by the city council, the final plat will be recorded and the subdivided lots may be sold while the improvements are being constructed by the developer.
(Ord. No. 512, § 7.01, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-72. - Filing fee.
A final plat application filing fee shall be paid by the developer at the time of submittal of the final plat. The fee shall be at the rate of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for the first page and five dollars ($5.00) for each additional page or as set from time to time by the city council.
(Ord. No. 512, § 7.02, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-73. - Final subdivision with no land-disturbing permit.
If the new subdivision has no new roads, drainage improvements or land disturbing activities, the final plat as completed by the registered land surveyor may be submitted to the building official, according to city regulations. One (1) original on linen or mylar and twelve (12) copies must be submitted two (2) weeks prior to the regularly scheduled planning commission meeting.
(Ord. No. 512, § 7.03, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-74. - Final plat with land-disturbing permit.
If the new subdivision has new roads or drainage improvements or substantial land disturbing activity, the final plat must be submitted reflecting the subdivision with the new roads or improvements as they are built. The mayor and council must also approve the final plat. No plat is deemed approved until all easements and roads have been accepted. When there is a subdivision improvement agreement, performance and maintenance securities must be posted and the city must accept the improvements prior to the approval of the final plat. When there is no subdivision improvement agreement, the developer must put up the specified maintenance security at the time that the roads and the final plat are approved.
The developer remains responsible for the maintenance and repairs on the road for a period of two (2) years from the time the final plat is approved. After two (2) years, the building official or other designated official will re-inspect the road. If the road is accepted as is, maintenance security will be released. If the road is not accepted, the developer will be responsible for making the required repairs, etc., or the maintenance security will be forfeited. If there is a subdivision improvement agreement, the developer is responsible for the maintenance and repairs on the road for a period of two (2) years from the time the city manager certifies the satisfactory completion of the required improvements. Prior to final plat approval, the appropriate road sign fees shall be paid to the city clerk by the developer.
(Ord. No. 512, § 7.04, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-75. - Approved final plat.
Once the planning commission recommends approval of a final plat, the plat is submitted to the city council for approval. Upon the city council's approval, the proper signatures will be affixed to the plat, the city will collect recording fees from the developer and shall be responsible for recording the plat in the clerk of superior court's office in Grady County. Only after the plat is recorded in the clerk of superior court's office in Grady County, may the developer begin to sell the lots.
(Ord. No. 512, § 7.05, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-76. - Denial of final plat.
If the final plat is denied the developer will be notified of any modifications or problems which need to be addressed.
(Ord. No. 512, § 7.06, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-77. - Filing.
Following approval of the preliminary plat the developer may complete all improvements and then file with the building official an application for final plat approval or file a subdivision improvement agreement as well as an application for final plat with the building official.
(Ord. No. 512, § 7.07, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-78. - Application requirements.
The application shall contain:
(1)
A letter of application containing the name and address of a person to whom notice may be sent.
(2)
A complete list of deviations, if any, from that which appeared on the approved preliminary plat.
(3)
A certified copy of all private covenants or deed restrictions, if any, pertaining to land within the subdivision.
(4)
A copy of the agreement between the subdivider and any other political jurisdiction, if any, regarding the arrangements for providing the necessary water and sewer facilities.
(5)
Evidence of the posting of a required performance bond, as required in section 19-26, to insure the construction and installation of required public facilities and improvements.
(6)
The original reproducible on plastic or linen and four (4) prints of the final plat.
(7)
Design and calculations for the stormwater drainage system, including elevations and capacities of pipes and holding basins. This plan shall be designed so as to meet all applicable state and federal requirements.
(8)
A plan showing the location of all water, sewer, gas, and electrical system improvements, including locations of service connections.
(9)
If the proposed water/sewerage for a subdivision requires the approval of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, the approval shall be obtained prior to making application for approval of the final plat. The approval shall be in writing and transmitted to the city council.
(10)
All as-built plans indicating permanent soil erosion and sedimentation control measures, storm drainage facilities, and public utilities. Copies of these plans shall be provided to the City of Cairo.
(Ord. No. 512, § 7.08, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-79. - Approval by the planning commission.
The recommendation of approval or disapproval of the final plat by the planning commission shall be accomplished within forty-five (45) days after the date of the scheduled regular planning commission meeting following submission of the application. If, after the forty-five (45) days, the planning commission has failed to act, the final plat shall be deemed approved and on demand, a copy shall be signed for transmission to the city council, provided, that the subdivider may waive in writing this requirement and consent to an extension of such period. If the planning commission disapproves the final plat, the reasons shall be stated in the resolution and the subdivider shall be so advised. Approval of the final plat by the planning commission shall not constitute acceptance by the City of Cairo for the dedication of any streets or public way or ground for public use or maintenance.
(Ord. No. 512, § 7.09, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-80. - Approval by the mayor and council.
If the planning commission recommends approval of the final plat, the final plat shall be submitted to the city council for review. The city council shall act upon the final plat within forty-five (45) days after receipt of the final plat. If, the city council disapproves the final plat, the reasons shall be stated in the resolution and the subdivider shall be so advised.
At the time a final plat is approved, the terms under which the city will accept maintenance of streets, drainage systems, and sewerage systems will be provided to the developer. When all conditions have been met, city council shall then pass appropriate resolutions authorizing the acceptance of improvements and their maintenance and shall authorize the mayor to sign a certificate on the final plat denoting city approval.
(Ord. No. 512, § 7.10, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-81. - Final plat requirements.
The final plat shall conform to the preliminary plat and requirements therefore, as set forth in this chapter and shall be drawn in permanent ink on one (1) or more sheets of reproducible plastic measuring eighteen (18) inches by twenty-four (24) inches maximum.
(1)
The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn in ink or tracing cloth to a scale of not more than one hundred (100) feet to one (1) inch. Individual sheets shall not be larger than eighteen (18) inches by twenty-four (24) inches overall, as approved by the county for purposes of recording. Where the final sheet of a proposed subdivision requires more than one (1) sheet, each sheet shall be keyed to a master map with appropriate marks of identification.
(2)
The final plat shall include the following information:
a.
Primary control points and benchmarks with necessary descriptions and locations of such control points, including all dimensions, angles, bearings, and similar data necessary for proper locations.
b.
Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines of streets, easements and other right-of-way and property lines of residential lots and other sites; with accurate dimensions, bearings or deflection angles, radii, and area and central angle of all curves.
c.
Names and right-of-way of each street or other right-of-way.
d.
Location, dimensions and purposes of any easements.
e.
Number or letter to identify each lot. Lots shall be numbered in numerical order beginning with number one (1) in each block, and blocks lettered in alphabetical order.
f.
A street address (house number) for each building lot to be assigned by the city building official.
g.
Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are dedicated or reserved.
h.
Minimum building setback lines on all lots and other sites.
i.
Location and description of monuments.
j.
Name of owners and zoning of adjacent land.
k.
Reference to recorded subdivision plats of adjoining platted land by recorded names, date, and number.
l.
Certification by registered surveyor or registered engineer to accuracy of survey and plat with date of survey indicated.
m.
Declaration of land ownership.
n.
Title, numerical scale, graphic scale, north arrow, total project acreage, and date.
o.
A vicinity map, shown either as an insert or on a separate sheet and at a scale of not less than one (1) inch equals two (2) miles, showing the location of the proposed subdivision.
p.
Flood hazard zones or the lack of shall be identified and delineated or stated on the plat.
q.
Topographic contour lines at two (2) foot contour intervals.
r.
A statement of private covenants, if any, to be put directly on the plat if they are brief enough; otherwise, if covenants are separately recorded, a statement as follows:
This plat is subject to the covenants set forth in the separate document(s) attached hereto dated________, which hereby become a part of this plat, and which were recorded in record book_____, page number_____, and signed by the owner.
s.
Separate instrument shall be attached to and made a part of all plats showing the grade of all roads, streets, alleys and other rights-of-way however designated and the elevations of the several portions of the land included on the plat, by contour lines at two (2) foot intervals.
t.
A statement by the owner, either directly on the plat or in an identified attached document dedicating streets, rights-of-way and any sites for public uses, similar to the following:
OWNER'S CERTIFICATE AND DECLARATION CAIRO, GEORGIA
The owner of the land shown on this plat and whose name is subscribed hereto, and in person or through a duly authorized agent, acknowledges that this plat was made from an actual survey and dedicates to the use of the public forever all streets, drains, easements and other public facilities and appurtenances thereon shown for the purposes therein expressed. Dated this________day of_____, 19_____.
By:___________
Owner
(Ord. No. 512, § 7.11, 12-14-98; Ord. No. 688, § 1, 4-28-08)
Sec. 19-82. - Certificates of final plat approval.
At such time as the final plat may be recommended for approval by the planning commission, and subsequently, approved by the city council, a certificate of approval shall be inscribed on the plat to indicate such approval by these bodies.
(1)
Certification by the planning commission: Upon approval by the planning commission, or after the required forty-five (45) days in which the commission has failed to act on a request for approval, the chairman of the commission shall inscribe on the plat the following:
FINAL PLAT

RECOMMENDATION OF APPROVAL

BY CAIRO PLANNING COMMISSION
Pursuant to the Subdivision Regulations of Cairo, Georgia, all the requirements for approval having been fulfilled, this Final Plat was recommended for approval by the Cairo Planning Commission on this_____day of________, 19_____.
________________
Chairman-Cairo Planning
Commission
(2)
Certification of the final plat by the mayor and council: Upon approval by the Cairo City Council, the mayor shall sign the following plat inscription:
FINAL PLAT

APPROVAL BY THE CAIRO CITY COUNCIL
All requirements for approval having been fulfilled and approval having been made by the Cairo Planning Commission, this Final Plat was given approval by the Cairo City Council and all public roadways and easements shown hereon are hereby accepted this_____day of________19_____.
________________
Mayor, City of Cairo
(3)
Certificate of final plat approval by the Grady County Health Department:
An on-site inspection indicates that the installation of water wells or individual sewage disposal systems on this subdivision have been completed according to the Grady County Health Department's regulations. This Final Plat was given approval by the Grady County Department of Public Health on this_____day of________, _____.
________________
Grady County Environmental
Health Specialist
(Ord. No. 512, § 7.12, 12-14-98)
Secs. 19-83—19-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - MINOR, ADMINISTRATIVE SUBDIVISION PROCEDURES AND PLATTING REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 19-91. - Criteria.
Criteria for filing for a minor administrative subdivision: In order to file for a minor administrative subdivision the subdivision must meet all of the following requirements.
(1)
The subdivision must qualify as a minor administrative subdivision.
(2)
The smallest lot in the subdivision must meet the requirements of the Cairo Zoning Ordinance requirements and the Grady County Department of Health standards.
(3)
The lot proposed to be subdivided is not part of previous subdivision approved within the three years prior to this application.
(Ord. No. 512, § 8.01, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-92. - Filing.
The developer shall file with the building official an application for administrative subdivision.
(Ord. No. 512, § 8.02, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-93. - Fees.
At the time of filing the application, the applicant shall pay a fee as determined by the city council.
(Ord. No. 512, § 8.03, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-94. - Application requirements.
The application shall include:
(1)
An application on the appropriate prescribed form;
(2)
A certified copy of all private covenants or deed restrictions, if any, pertaining to land within the subdivision;
(3)
Information relating to the characteristics of soils within the subdivision if city water and/or sewer is to be provided by individual well or septic tank;
(4)
An original reproducible on plastic or linen and four (4) copies of the final plat.
(Ord. No. 512, § 8.04, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-95. - Review and approvals.
The review and or approval of administrative subdivisions shall be conducted as follows:
(1)
Copies of the plats shall be distributed to the Grady County Health Department (if applicable), the planning commission, and the city manager or his designee for approval.
(2)
Approval or disapproval of the administrative plat shall be accomplished by the city manager and health department within fifteen (15) working days after the date of the application. If, after the fifteen (15) days the city manager has failed to act, the final plat shall be deemed approved subject to the approval of the Grady County Health Department and on demand, a copy shall be signed by the city manager, planning and commission chairman, provided, that the subdivider may waive in writing this requirement and consent to an extension of such period. If the city manager or his designee disapproves the final plat, the reasons shall be stated in writing and the subdivider shall be so advised.
(Ord. No. 512, § 8.05, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-96. - Review by county health department.
The proposed administrative subdivision shall be reviewed and if approved, certified by the Grady County Public Health Department if individual water wells and/or private sewage systems will be used.
(Ord. No. 512, § 8.06, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-97. - Certificate of approval by the city manager and planning commission.
Upon approval by the city manager, the planning commission and the city manager shall sign an approval certificate which shall have been inscribed on the plat by the developer of the subdivision.
(Ord. No. 512, § 8.07, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-98. - Recording of plat.
The approved and certified plat shall be recorded by the City of Cairo after recording fees have been posted by the developer as required. Approval of the city council shall not be required.
(Ord. No. 512, § 8.08, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-99. - Building and lot sales.
No building on lots or sale of lots shall take place before the approved and certified plat is recorded.
(Ord. No. 512, § 8.09, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-100. - Combined preliminary/final plat requirements.
The final plat shall contain the following:
(1)
Primary control points and benchmarks with necessary descriptions and locations of such control points, including all dimensions, angle, bearings, and similar data necessary for proper locations.
(2)
Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines of streets, easements and other right-of-way and property lines of residential lots and other sites; with accurate dimensions, bearings or deflection angles, radii, and area and central angle of all curves.
(3)
Names and right-of-way of each street or other right-of-way.
(4)
Location, dimensions and purposes of any easements.
(5)
Number or letter to identify each lot.
(6)
Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are dedicated or reserved.
(7)
Minimum building set-back lines on all lots and other sites and delineate areas that are subject to ponding of water or within the FIRM floodplain areas. Topo contour intervals of the area shall be shown at two (2) foot contour intervals.
(8)
Location and description of monuments.
(9)
Names of owners and zoning of adjoining land.
(10)
Reference to recorded subdivision plats or adjoining platted land by recorded names, date, and number.
(11)
Certification by registered surveyor or registered engineer as to accuracy of survey and plat with date of survey indicated.
(12)
Declaration of land ownership.
(13)
Title, numerical scale, graphic scale, north arrow, total project acreage, and date.
(14)
A vicinity map, shown either as an insert or on a separate sheet and at a scale of not less than one (1) inch equals two (2) miles, showing the location of the proposed subdivision.
(15)
A statement of private covenants, if any, to be put directly on the plat if they are brief enough; otherwise, if covenants are separately recorded, a statement as follows:
This plat is subject to the covenants set forth in the separate document(s) attached hereto dated________, which hereby become a part of this plat, and which were recorded in record book_____, page number_____, and signed by the owner.
(16)
A statement by the owner, either directly on the plat or in an identified attached document dedicating streets, rights-of-way and any sites for public uses, similar to the following:
OWNER'S CERTIFICATE AND DECLARATION
The owner of the land shown on this plat and whose name is subscribed hereto, and in person or through a duly authorized agent, acknowledges that this plat was made from an actual survey and dedicates to the use of the public forever all streets, drains, easements and other public facilities and appurtenances thereon shown for the purpose therein expressed on this_____day of________, 19_____.
By:___________
Owner
(17)
Wording which indicates that the city manager and planning commission chairman have reviewed the criteria for administrative approval and found the plat to be in compliance with the requirements for minor subdivisions as follows:
Certificate of Administrative Plat Approval

By City Manager and Planning Commission Chairman
This plat has been reviewed for standards under the definition of administrative subdivision. All platting requirements are complete. Approval was therefore granted on the_____day of________, 19_____by the City Manager and planning commission.
________________
City Manager
________________
Planning Commission Chairman
(18)
Certificate of final plat approval by the Grady County Health Department:
Certificate of Administrative Plat Approval

By the Grady County Health Department
An on-site inspection indicates that the installation of individual water wells and/or sewage disposal systems on this subdivision has been designed according to the Grady County Health Department's regulations. This administrative plat was given approval by the Grady Department of Public Health on this_____day of________, _____.
________________
Grady County Environmental
Health Specialist
(Ord. No. 512, § 8.10, 12-14-98)
Secs. 19-101—19-110. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS, RESERVATIONS, AND DESIGN

Sec. 19-111. - General improvements.
(a)
Conformance to applicable rules and regulations. In addition to the requirements established in these regulations, all subdivision plats shall comply with the following laws, rules, and regulations:
(1)
All applicable statutory provisions.
(2)
The City of Cairo Zoning Ordinance, Building and Housing Codes, and all other applicable laws of the appropriate jurisdictions.
(3)
The Official Master Plan, Official Map, Public Utilities Plan, and Capital Improvements Program of the City of Cairo, including all streets, drainage systems, and parks shown on the official map or master plan as adopted.
(4)
The special requirements of these regulations and any rules of the health department and/or appropriate state [agencies] or state sub-agencies.
(5)
The rules of the state highway department if the subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a state highway or connecting street.
(6)
The standards and regulations adopted by the city engineer and all boards, commissions, agencies, and officials of the City of Cairo.
(7)
Plat approval may be withheld if a subdivision is not in conformity with the above laws, regulations, guidelines, and policies, as well as the purposes of these regulations.
(b)
Adequate public facilities. No preliminary plat shall be approved unless the city council determines that public facilities will be adequate to support and service the area of the proposed subdivision. The applicant shall, at the request of the city council, submit sufficient information and data on the proposed subdivision to demonstrate the expected impact on and use of public facilities by possible uses of said subdivision. Public facilities and services to be examined for adequacy will include roads and public transportation facilities, sewerage, and water service.
(1)
Periodically the city council will establish by resolution, after public hearing, guidelines for the determination of the adequacy of public facilities and services. To provide the basis for the guidelines, the planning commission must prepare an analysis of current growth and the amount of additional growth that can be accommodated by future public facilities and services. The planning commission must also recommend any changes in preliminary plat approval criteria it finds appropriate in the light of its experience in administering these regulations.
(2)
The applicant for a preliminary plat must, at the request of the planning commission, submit sufficient information and data on the proposed subdivision to demonstrate the expected impact on and use of public facilities and services by possible uses of said subdivision.
(3)
Comprehensive master plan consistency required. Proposed public improvements shall conform to and be properly related to the City of Cairo's comprehensive plan and all applicable capital improvement plans.
(4)
Water. All habitable buildings and buildable lots shall be connected to a public water system capable of providing water for health and emergency purposes, including adequate fire protection.
(5)
Wastewater. All habitable buildings and buildable lots shall be served by an approved means of wastewater collection and treatment.
(6)
Stormwater management. Drainage improvements shall accommodate potential runoff from the entire upstream drainage area and shall be designed to prevent increases in downstream flooding. The city council may require the use of control methods such as retention or detention, and/or the construction of off-site drainage improvements to mitigate the impacts of the proposed developments.
(7)
Roads. Proposed roads shall provide a safe, convenient, and functional system for vehicular, pedestrian, and bicycle circulation; shall be properly related to the comprehensive plan; and shall be appropriate for the particular traffic characteristics or each proposed development.
(8)
Extension policies. All public improvements and required easements shall be extended through the parcel on which new development is proposed. Streets, water lines, wastewater systems, drainage facilities, electric lines, and telecommunication lines shall be constructed through new development to promote the logical extension of public infrastructure. The city council may require the applicant of a subdivision to extend off-site improvements to reach the subdivision or oversize required public facilities to serve anticipated future development as a condition of plat approval.
(c)
Self-imposed restrictions. If the owner places restrictions on any of the land contained in the subdivision greater than those required by the zoning ordinance or these regulations, such restrictions or reference to those restrictions is required to be indicated on the subdivision plat and the restrictive covenants shall be recorded with the clerk of superior court at the time the final plat is recorded by the city. All recording fees shall be paid by the developer to the city prior to final plat recording.
(d)
Plats straddling municipal boundaries. Whenever access to the subdivision is required across land in another local government, the city council may request assurance from the city attorney that access is legally established, and from the city engineer that the access road is adequately improved, or that a guarantee has been duly executed and is sufficient in amount to assure the construction of the access road. In general, lot lines should be laid out so as not to cross municipal boundary lines.
(e)
Monuments. Monuments shall be placed on all lot corners, all angle points in a property line, and tangent points on right- of-way lines. Where a property line crosses a stream or other watercourse that is also a property line, a monument shall be placed on the property line within twenty (20) feet of the stream bank and the distance to the centerline of the watercourse called out on the final plat. The same type and size of monument shall be used throughout the subdivision and the final plat shall clearly call out the size and type of monument placed. Monuments shall be a permanent material and may be either a steel or iron pin one-half (½) inch or larger in diameter with a minimum length of thirty (30) inches. A concrete monument thirty (30) inches in length with a brass disk imbedded in the top shall be placed at all land lot corners on the boundary of the property being developed. A concrete monument shall either be six (6) inches in diameter or four (4) inches by four (4) inches square and extend no less than six (6) inches above the finished grade.
(1)
All internal boundaries and those corners and points not referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be monumented in the field by like monuments as described above. These monuments shall be placed at all block corners, at each end of all curves, and at all angle points in any line.
(2)
All monuments required by these regulations shall be set flush with the ground.
(3)
All monuments shall be properly set in the ground and approved by a Georgia Registered Land Surveyor prior to the time the city council recommends approval of the final plat.
(f)
Character of the land. Land that the city council finds to be unsuitable for subdivision or development due to flooding, improper drainage, steep slopes, rock formations, adverse earth formations or topography, utility easements, or other features that will reasonably be harmful to the safety, health, and general welfare of the present or future inhabitants of the subdivision and/or its surrounding areas, shall not be subdivided or developed unless adequate methods are formulated by the developer and approved by the city council, upon recommendation of the city engineer, to solve the problems created by the unsuitable land conditions. Such land shall be set aside for uses as shall not involve any danger to public health, safety, and welfare.
(g)
Subdivision name. The proposed name of the subdivision shall not duplicate, or too closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other subdivision in the area covered by these regulations. The city council shall have final authority to designate the name of the subdivision, which shall be determined at sketch plat approval.
(Ord. No. 512, § 9.01, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-112. - Lot improvements.
(a)
Lot arrangement. The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no foreseeable difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in securing building permits to build on all lots in compliance with the zoning ordinance and health regulations and in providing driveway access to buildings on the lots from an approved street.
(b)
Lot dimensions. Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards of the zoning ordinance. Where lots are more than double the minimum required area for the zoning district, the city council may require that those lots be arranged so as to allow further subdivision and the opening of future streets where they would be necessary to serve potential lots, all in compliance with the zoning ordinance and these regulations. In general, side lot lines shall be at right angles to street lines (or radial to curving street lines) unless a variation from this rule will give a better street or lot plan. Dimensions of corner lots shall be large enough to allow for erection of buildings, observing the minimum front yard setback from both streets. Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for business, commercial, or industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-street parking and loading facilities required for the type of use and development contemplated, as established in the zoning ordinance.
(c)
Lot orientation. The lot line common to the street right-of-way shall be the front line. All lots shall face the front line and a similar line across the street. Wherever feasible, lots shall be arranged so that the rear line does not about the side line of an adjacent lot.
(d)
Double frontage lots and access to lots.
(1)
Double front lots. Double frontage and reversed frontage lots shall be avoided except where necessary to provide separation of residential development from traffic arterials or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
(2)
Access from major and secondary arterials. Lots shall not, in general, derive access exclusively from a major or secondary street. Where driveway access from a major or secondary street may be necessary for several adjoining lots, the city council may require that such lots be served by a combined access drive in order to limit possible traffic hazards on the street. Where possible, driveways should be designed and arranged so as to avoid requiring vehicles to back into traffic on major and secondary arterials.
(e)
Soil and grading; lot drainage. Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot to adjacent lots.
(f)
Debris and waste. No cut trees, timber, debris, earth, rocks, stones, soil, junk, rubbish, or other waste materials of any kind shall be buried in any land, or left or deposited on any lot or street at the time of the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, and removal of those items and materials shall be required prior to issuance of any certificate of occupancy on a subdivision. No items and materials as described in the preceding sentence shall be left or deposited in any area of the subdivision at the time of expiration of any subdivision improvement agreement or dedication of public improvements, whichever is sooner.
(g)
Waterbodies and watercourses. If a tract being subdivided contains a water body, or portion thereof, lot lines shall be so drawn as to distribute the entire ownership of the water body among the adjacent lots. The city council may approve an alternative plan whereby the ownership of and responsibility for safe maintenance of the water body is so placed that it will not become a local government responsibility. No more than twenty-five (25) percent of the minimum area of a lot required under the zoning ordinance may be satisfied by land that is under water. Where a watercourse separates the buildable area of a lot from the street by which it has access, provisions shall be made for installation of a culvert or other structure, of design approved by the city engineer.
(h)
Subdivision improvement agreement and security to include lot improvement. The applicant shall enter into a separate subdivision improvement agreement secured by a letter of credit or cash escrow to guarantee completion of all lot improvement requirements including, but not limited to, final grading, lot drainage, removal of debris and waste, fencing, and all other lot improvements required by the city council. Whether or not a certificate of occupancy has been issued, the City of Cairo may enforce the provisions of the subdivision improvement agreement where the provisions of this section or any other applicable law, ordinance, or regulation have not been met.
(Ord. No. 512, § 9.02, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-113. - Roads.
(a)
General requirements.
(1)
Frontage on improved roads. No subdivision shall be approved unless the area to be subdivided shall have frontage on and access from an existing street on the official map.
(2)
Grading and improvement plan. Roads shall be graded and improved and conform to the City of Cairo construction standards and specifications and shall be approved as to design and specifications by the city engineer, in accordance with the construction plans required to be submitted prior to final plat approval.
(3)
Classification. All roads shall be classified as either major arterial, minor arterial, collector, or minor. In classifying roads, the City of Cairo shall consider projected traffic demands after twenty (20) years of development.
(4)
Topography and arrangement.
a.
Roads shall be related appropriately to the topography. Minor local roads shall be curved wherever possible to avoid conformity of lot appearance. All streets shall be arranged so as to obtain as many building sites as possible at, or above, the grades of the streets. Grades of streets shall conform as closely as possible to the original topography. A combination of steep grades and curves shall be avoided. Specific standards are contained in the design standards of these regulations.
b.
All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and proposed system of thoroughfares and dedicated rights-of-way as established on the official map and/or master plan.
c.
All thoroughfares shall be properly related to special traffic generators such as industries, business districts, schools, churches, and shopping centers; to population densities; and to the pattern of existing and proposed land uses.
d.
Minor or local streets shall be laid out to conform as much as possible to the topography to discourage use by through traffic, to permit efficient drainage and utility systems, and to require the minimum number of streets necessary to provide convenient and safe access to property.
e.
The rigid rectangular gridiron street pattern need not necessarily be adhered to, and the use of curvilinear streets, cul-de-sacs, or U-shaped streets shall be encouraged where such use will result in a more desirable layout.
f.
Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical conditions, or unless in the opinion of the city council, such extension is not necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the subdivision with the existing layout or the most advantageous future development of adjacent tracks.
g.
In business and industrial developments, the streets and other access ways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings, location of rail facilities, and the provision of alleys, truck loading and maneuvering areas, and walks and parking areas so as to minimize conflict of movement between the various types of traffic, including pedestrian.
(5)
Blocks.
a.
Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two (2) tiers of lots of appropriate depths. Exceptions to this prescribed block width shall be permitted in blocks adjacent to major streets, railroads, or waterways.
b.
The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be such as are appropriate for the locality and the type of development contemplated, but block lengths in residential areas shall not exceed two thousand two hundred (2,200) feet or twelve (12) times the minimum lot width required in the zoning district, nor be less than four hundred (400) feet in length. Wherever practicable, blocks along major arterials and collector streets shall be not less than one thousand (1,000) feet in length.
c.
In long blocks the city council may require the reservation of an easement through the block to accommodate utilities, drainage facilities, or pedestrian traffic.
d.
Pedestrian ways or crosswalks, not less than ten (10) feet wide, may be required by the city council through the center of blocks more than eight hundred (800) feet long where deemed essential to provide circulation or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation, or other community facilities. Blocks designed for industrial uses shall be of such length and width as may be determined suitable by the city council for prospective use.
(6)
Access to primary arterials. Where a subdivision borders on or contains an existing or proposed primary arterial, the city council may require that access to such streets be limited by one of the following means:
a.
The subdivision of lots so as to back onto the primary arterial and front onto a parallel local street; no access shall be provided from the primary arterial, and screening shall be provided in a strip of land along the rear property line of such lots.
b.
A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets, or short loops entered from and designed generally at right angles to such a parallel street, with the rear lines of their terminal lots backing onto the primary arterial.
c.
A marginal access or service road (separated from the primary arterial by a planning or grass strip and having access at suitable points).
(7)
Road names. The sketch plat, as submitted, shall indicate any names for proposed streets. The city council shall name all roads upon recommendation of the building official at the time of preliminary approval. The building official shall consult the local postmaster prior to rendering its recommendation to the city council. Names shall be sufficiently different in sound and spelling from other road names in the municipality so as not to cause confusion. A road which is (or is planned as) a continuation of an existing road shall bear the same name.
(8)
Road regulatory signs. The applicant shall deposit with the City of Cairo at the time of final subdivision approval the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each road sign required by the city engineer at all road intersections. The city shall install all road signs before issuance of certificates of occupancy for any residence on the streets approved. Street name signs are to be placed at all intersections within or abutting the subdivision, the type and location of which to be approved by the city engineer.
(9)
Street lights. Installation of street lights shall be required in accordance with design and specification standards approved by the director of utilities.
(10)
Reserve strips. The creation of reserve strips shall not be permitted adjacent to a proposed street in such a manner as to deny access from adjacent property to the street.
(11)
Construction of roads and dead-end roads.
a.
Construction of roads. The arrangement of streets shall provide for the continuation of principal streets between adjacent properties when the continuation is necessary for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire protection, for efficient provision of utilities, and where the continuation is in accordance with the City of Cairo traffic plan. If the adjacent property is undeveloped and the street must temporarily be a dead-end street, the right-of-way shall be extended to the property line. A temporary T- or L-shaped turnabout shall be provided on all temporary dead-end streets, with the notation on the subdivision plat that land outside the normal street right-of-way shall revert to abutters whenever the street is continued. The city council may limit the length of temporary dead-end streets in accordance with the design standards of these regulations.
b.
Dead-end roads (permanent). Where a road does not extend beyond the boundary of the subdivision and its continuation is not required by the city council for access to adjoining property, its terminus shall normally not be nearer to such boundary than fifty (50) feet. However, the city council may require the reservation of an appropriate easement to accommodate drainage facilities, pedestrian traffic, or utilities. A cul-de-sac turnaround shall be provided at the closed end of the road with a turn-around roadway having a minimum radius for the outside curb of at least fifty (50) feet.
(b)
Design standards.
(1)
In order to provide for roads of suitable location, width and improvement to accommodate prospective traffic and afford satisfactory access to police, firefighting, sanitation and road-maintenance equipment, and to coordinate roads so as to impose a convenient system and avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties, the design standards for roads according to Georgia Department of Transportation Standards Specifications/Construction of Roads and Bridges, 1993 Edition as amended or required. Unless otherwise indicated or required by a major street plan, street rights-of-way and pavement thereon shall not be less than the following:
EXPAND
Street Type or Classification Minimum Right-of-way (In feet) Minimum Pavement width (In feet)
Major arterial street (without curb and gutter) 100 24
Major arterial street (with curb and gutter) 80 24
Collector street and business street (without curb and gutter) 80 24
Collector street and business street (with curb and gutter) 60 24
Residential street (with or without curb and gutter) 60 22
  a.
Additional right-of-way width may be required to promote public safety and convenience, and to ensure adequate access, circulation and parking in high density residential areas, commercial areas, and industrial areas.
b.
If a subdivision abuts or contains an existing street of an adequate right-of-way width, additional right-of-way in conformance with the above standards may be required.
(2)
Road surfacing and improvements. After sewer and water utilities have been installed by the developer, the developer shall construct curbs and gutters where required and shall surface or cause to be surfaced roadways to the widths prescribed in these regulations. All surfacing shall be of a character as is suitable for the expected traffic and in harmony with similar improvements in the surrounding areas. Types of pavement shall be as determined by the city engineer. Adequate provision shall be made for culverts, drains, and bridges. All road pavement, shoulders, drainage improvements and structures, curbs, turnarounds, and sidewalks shall conform to all construction standards and specifications adopted by the city council and shall be incorporated into the construction plans required to be submitted by the developer for plat approval.
(3)
Excess right-of-way. Right-of-way widths in excess of the standards designated in these regulations shall be required whenever, due to topography, additional width is necessary to provide adequate earth slopes. Such slopes shall not be in excess of three-to-one (3:1).
(4)
Railroads and limited access highways. Railroad rights-of-way and limited access highways where so located as to affect the subdivision of adjoining lands shall be treated as follows:
a.
In residential districts a buffer strip at least twenty-five (25) feet in depth in addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the district shall be provided adjacent to the railroad right-of-way or limited access highway. This strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be designated on the plat:
"The strip is reserved for screening. The placement of structure on this land is prohibited."
b.
In districts zoned for business, commercial, or industrial uses, the nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad right-of-way shall, wherever practicable, be at a sufficient distance from the railroad right-of-way to ensure suitable depth for commercial or industrial sites.
c.
When streets parallel to the railroad right-of-way intersect a street which crosses the railroad right-of-way at grade, they shall, to the extent practicable, be at a distance of at least one hundred fifty (150) feet from the railroad right-of-way. Such distance shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum distance required for future separation of grades by means of appropriate approach gradients.
(5)
Intersections.
a.
Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at right angles. A proposed intersection of two (2) new streets at an angle of less than seventy-five (75) degrees shall not be acceptable. An oblique street should be curved approaching an intersection and should be approximately at right angles for at least one hundred (100) feet therefrom. Not more than two (2) streets shall intersect at one point unless specifically approved by the city council.
b.
Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street shall, wherever practicable, coincide with an existing intersection on the opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one hundred fifty (150) feet shall not be permitted except where the intersection street has separated dual drives without median breaks at either intersection. Where streets intersect major streets, their alignment shall be continuous. Intersection of major streets shall be at least eight hundred (800) feet apart.
c.
Minimum curb radius at the intersections of two (2) local streets shall be at least twenty (20) feet; and minimum curb radius at an intersection involving a collector street shall be at least twenty-five (25) feet. Alley intersections and abrupt changes in alignment within a block shall have the corners cut off in accordance with standard engineering practice to permit safe vehicular movement.
d.
Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever practical. In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a leveling area shall be provided having not greater than a two (2) percent rate at a distance of sixty (60) feet, measured from the nearest right-of-way line of the intersecting street.
e.
Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or existing vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by limiting visibility, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation (including trees) in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to the extent deemed necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
f.
The cross-slopes on all streets, including intersections, shall be three (3) percent or less.
(6)
Bridges. Bridges of primary benefit to the applicant, as determined by the city council, shall be constructed at the full expense of the applicant without reimbursement from the City of Cairo. The sharing expense for the construction of bridges not of primary benefit to the applicant as determined by the city council, will be fixed by special agreement between the city council and the applicant. The cost of bridges that do not solely benefit the developer shall be charged to the developer pro rata based on the percentage obtained by dividing the service area of the bridge into the area of the land being developed by the subdivider.
(c)
Road dedications and reservations.
(1)
New perimeter streets. Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid out so as to eliminate or avoid new perimeter half-streets. Where an existing half-street is adjacent to a new subdivision, the other half of the street shall be improved and dedicated by the subdivider. The city council may authorize a new perimeter street where the subdivider improves and dedicates the entire required street right-of-way width within its own subdivision boundaries.
(2)
Widening and realignment of existing roads. Where a subdivision borders an existing narrow road or when the master plan, official map, or zoning setback regulations indicate plans for realignment or widening a road that would require use of some of the land in the subdivision, the applicant shall be required to improve and dedicate at its expense those areas for widening or realignment of those roads. Frontage roads and streets as described above shall be improved and dedicated by the applicant at its own expense to the full width as required by these subdivision regulations when the applicant's development activities contribute to the need for the road expansion. Land reserved for any road purposes may not be counted in satisfying yard or area requirements of the zoning ordinance whether the land is to be dedicated to the municipality in fee simple or an easement is granted to the City of Cairo.
(Ord. No. 512, § 9.03, 12-14-98; Ord. No. 522, § 1, 11-8-99; Ord. No. 688, § 2, 4-28-08)
Sec. 19-114. - Drainage and storm sewers.
(a)
General requirements. The planning commission shall not recommend for approval any plat of subdivision that does not make adequate provision for storm and floodwater runoff channels or basins. The stormwater drainage system shall be separate and independent of any sanitary sewer system. Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed by the rational method, or other methods as approved by the city council, and a copy of design computations shall be submitted along with plans. All subdivision drainage systems, both piped and channelized, receiving stormwater from off-site, shall be designed to handle and transport through the subdivision specific the 100-year level storm. Catch basins handling street stormwater shall be designed to handle a 25-year storm considering bypass, as prescribed by Georgia D.O.T. design requirements. Inlets shall be provided so that surface water is not carried across or around any intersection, nor for a distance of more than six hundred (600) feet in the gutter where required. When calculations indicate that curb capacities are exceeded at a point, no further allowance shall be made for flow beyond that point, and basins shall be used to intercept flow at that point. Surface water drainage patterns shall be shown for each and every lot and block.
(b)
Nature of stormwater facilities.
(1)
Location. The applicant may be required by the city council to carry away by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that may exist either previously to, or as a result of the subdivision. Such drainage facilities shall be located in the road right-of-way where feasible, or in perpetual unobstructed easements of appropriate width, and shall be constructed in accordance with the construction standards and specifications.
(2)
Accessibility to public storm sewers.
a.
Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the applicant shall install storm sewer facilities, or if no outlets are within a reasonable distance, adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of stormwaters, subject to the specifications of the city engineer. However, in subdivisions containing lots less than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet in area and in business and industrial districts, underground storm sewer systems shall be constructed throughout the subdivisions and be conducted to an approved out-fall. Inspection of facilities shall be conducted by the city engineer.
b.
If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided eventually, as determined by the city engineer and the city council, the developer shall make arrangements for future stormwater disposal by a public utility system at the time the plat receives final approval. Provision for such connection shall be incorporated by inclusion in the subdivision improvement agreement required for the subdivision plat.
(3)
Accommodation of upstream drainage areas. A culvert or other drainage facility shall in each case, be large enough to accommodate potential runoff from its entire upstream drainage area, whether inside or outside the subdivision. The facility shall be designed by the applicant's engineer and reviewed for approval by the city engineer based on the provisions of the construction standards and specifications assuming conditions of maximum potential watershed development permitted by the zoning ordinance.
(4)
Effect on downstream drainage areas. The city engineer shall also study the effect of each subdivision on existing downstream drainage facilities outside the area of the subdivision. Local government drainage studies, together with such other studies as shall be appropriate, shall serve as a guide to needed improvements. Where it is anticipated that the additional runoff incident to the development of the subdivision will overload an existing downstream drainage facility, the city council may withhold approval of the subdivision until provision has been made for the expansion of the existing downstream drainage facility. No subdivision shall be approved unless adequate drainage will be provided to an adequate drainage watercourse or facility.
(5)
Areas of poor drainage. Whenever a plat is submitted for an area that is subject to flooding, the city council may approve such subdivision provided that the applicant fills the affected area of the subdivision to an elevation sufficient to place the elevation of streets and lots at a minimum of three (3) feet above the elevation of the 100-year floodplain, as determined by the city engineer. The plat of the subdivision shall provide for an overflow zone along the bank of any stream or watercourse, in a width that shall be sufficient in times of high water to contain or move the water, and no fill shall be placed in the overflow zone nor shall any structure be erected or placed in the overflow zone. The boundaries of the overflow zone shall be subject to approval by the city engineer. The city council may deny subdivision approval for areas of extremely poor drainage.
(6)
Floodplain areas. The city council, may when it deems it necessary for the health, safety, or welfare of the present and future population of the area and necessary to the conservation of water, drainage, and sanitary facilities, prohibit the subdivision of any portion of the property that lies within the floodplain of any stream or drainage course. These floodplain areas shall be preserved from any and all destruction or damage resulting from clearing, grading or dumping of earth, waste material, or stumps, except at the discretion of the city council.
(c)
Dedication of drainage easements.
(1)
General requirements. When a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway, channel, or stream, there shall be provided an undisturbed vegetation buffer (state law), a stormwater easement, or drainage right-of-way as appropriate, conforming substantially to the lines of such watercourse, and of such width and construction as will be adequate for the purpose. Where required by state law, or otherwise possible, it is desirable that the drainage be maintained by an open channel with an undisturbed vegetative buffer or landscaped banks and adequate width for maximum potential volume of flow.
(2)
Drainage easements.
a.
Where topography or other conditions are such as to make impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within road rights-of-way, perpetual, unobstructed easements at least fifteen (15) feet in width for drainage facilities shall be provided across property outside the road lines and with satisfactory access to the road. Easements shall be indicated on the plat. Drainage easements shall extend from the road to a natural watercourse or to other drainage facilities.
b.
When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights must be secured and indicated on the plat.
c.
The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee or by a drainage or conservation easement, land on both sides of existing watercourses to a distance to be determined by the city council.
d.
Low-lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or overflowing during storm periods, whether or not included in areas for dedication, shall be preserved and retained in their natural state as drainage ways. Such land or lands subject to periodic flooding shall not be computed in determining the number of lots to be utilized for average density procedures nor for computing the area requirement of any lot.
(Ord. No. 512, § 9.04, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-115. - Water facilities.
(a)
General requirements.
(1)
When a public water main is not accessible, the developer shall take necessary action to extend a water supply system capable of providing for domestic water use and fire protection.
(2)
When a public water main is accessible, the developer shall install adequate water facilities (including fire hydrants) subject to the specifications of state or local authorities. All water mains shall be at least six (6) inches in diameter.
(3)
Water main extensions shall be approved by the officially designated agency of the state or local government.
(4)
The location of all fire hydrants and water supply improvements, indicating all improvements proposed to be served, shall be shown on the preliminary plat, and the cost of installing same shall be borne by the developer and included in the subdivision improvement agreement and security to be furnished by the developer.
(b)
Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions. Fire hydrants shall be located no more than five hundred (500) feet apart and within four hundred (400) feet of any structure. A cut-off valve shall be installed with every hydrant. Plans for the installation of fire hydrants shall be approved by the Cairo Fire Chief. To eliminate future street openings, all underground utilities for fire hydrants, together with the fire hydrants themselves, and all other supply improvements shall be installed before any final paving of a street shown on the subdivision plat. A cut-off valve shall be installed with every hydrant.
(Ord. No. 512, § 9.05, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-116. - Sewerage facilities.
(a)
General requirements. The applicant shall install sanitary sewer facilities in a manner prescribed by the City of Cairo construction standards and specifications. All plans shall be designed and approved in accordance with the rules, regulations, and standards of the city engineer, health department, and other appropriate agency.
(b)
Residential and nonresidential districts. Sanitary sewerage facilities shall connect with public sanitary sewerage systems. Sewers shall be installed to serve each lot and to grades and sizes required by approving officials and agencies. No individual disposal system or treatment plants (private or group disposal systems) shall be permitted. Sanitary sewerage facilities (including the installation of laterals in the right-of-way) shall be subject to the specifications, rules, regulations, and guidelines of the health officer, city engineer, and appropriate state agency.
(c)
Mandatory connection to public sewer system. If a public sanitary sewer is accessible and a sanitary sewer is placed in a street or alley abutting upon property, the owner of the property shall be required to connect to the sewer for the purpose of disposing of waste, and it shall be unlawful for any such owner or occupant to maintain upon any such property an individual sewage disposal system.
(d)
Design criteria for sanitary sewers.
(1)
General guidelines. These design criteria are not intended to cover extraordinary situations. Deviations will be allowed and may be required in those instances when considered justified by the city engineer.
(2)
Design factors. Sanitary sewer system should be designed for the ultimate tributary population. Due consideration should be given to current zoning regulations and approved applicable reports. Sewer capacities should be adequate to handle the anticipated maximum hourly quantity of sewage and industrial waste together with an adequate allowance for infiltration and other extraneous flow. The unit design flows presented below should be adequate in each case for the particular type of development indicated. Sewers shall be designed for the total tributary area using the following criteria:
EXPAND
One and Two Family Dwellings .02 cubic feet per second (c.f.s.)/acre
Apartments
One and Two Story .02 c.f.s./acre
Three through Six Story .03 c.f.s./acre
Commercial
Small Stores, Offices, and Miscellaneous .02 c.f.s./acre
Business
Shopping Centers .02 c.f.s./acre
High Rise As directed by city engineer
Industrial As directed by city engineer
  These design factors shall apply to watersheds of three hundred (300) acres or less. Design factors for watersheds larger than three hundred (300) acres and smaller than one thousand (1,000) acres shall be computed on the basis of a linear decrease from the applicable design factor for an area of three hundred (300) acres to a design factor of .01 c.f.s./acre unless otherwise directed by the city engineer. Design factors for watersheds larger than one thousand (1,000) acres shall be .01 c.f.s./acre unless otherwise directed by the city engineer.
(3)
Maximum size. The diameter of sewers proposed shall not exceed the diameter of the existing or proposed outlet, whichever is applicable, unless otherwise approved by the city engineer.
(4)
Minimum size. No public sewer shall be less than eight (8) inches in diameter.
(5)
Minimum slope. All sewers shall be designed to give mean velocities when flowing full of not less than two and seven tenths (2.7) feet per second. All velocity and flow calculations shall be based on the Manning Formula using an N value of 0.013. The design slopes shall be evenly divisible by four (4). The slopes shall be minimum for the size indicated. Exceptions to these minimum slopes shall be made at the upper end of lateral sewers serving under thirty (30) houses. Sewers at the upper end shall have a minimum slope of 0.76 percent. When lateral sewers serve less than ten (10) houses, the minimum slope shall be not less than one (1) percent. (See table below.)
MINIMUM SLOPES FOR SEWER SIZE INDICATED
EXPAND
Sewer Size (inches) Minimum Slope (feet per 100 feet)
4 1.00
8 0.60
10 0.44
  (6)
Alignment. All sewers shall be laid with straight alignment between manholes, unless otherwise directed or approved by the city engineer.
(h)
Manhole location. Manholes shall be installed at the end of each line; at all changes in grade, size or alignment; at all intersections; and at distances not greater than four hundred (400) feet for sewers fifteen (15) inches and smaller, and five hundred (500) feet for sewers eighteen (18) inches in diameter and larger.
(8)
Manholes. The difference in elevation between any incoming sewer and the manhole invert shall not exceed twenty-four (24) inches except where required to match crowns. The use of drop manholes will require approval by the city engineer. The minimum inside diameter of the manholes shall conform to those specified by the city engineer. Inside drop manholes will require special considerations; however, in no case shall the minimum clear distance be less than that indicated above. When a smaller sewer joins a larger one, the crown of the smaller sewer shall not be lower than that of the larger one. The minimum drop through manholes shall be two-tenths (0.2) foot.
(9)
Sewerage locations. Sanitary sewers shall be located within street or alley rights-of-way unless topography dictates otherwise. When located in easements on private property, access shall be to all manholes. A manhole shall be provided at each street or alley crossing. End lines shall be extended to provide access from street or alley right-of-way when possible. Imposed loading shall be considered in all locations. Not less than four (4) feet of cover shall be provided over the top of pipe in street and alley rights-of-way or three (3) feet in all other areas.
(10)
Cleanouts and lampholes. Cleanouts and lampholes will not be permitted.
(11)
Water supply interconnections. There shall be no physical connection between a public or private potable water supply system and a sewer which will permit the passage of any sewage or polluted water into the potable supply. Sewers shall be kept removed from water supply wells or other water supply sources and structures.
(12)
Relation of sewers to water mains. A minimum horizontal distance of ten (10) feet shall be maintained between parallel water and sewer lines. At points where sewers cross water mains, the sewer shall be constructed of cast iron pipe or encased in concrete for a distance of ten (10) feet in each direction from the crossing, measured perpendicular to the water line. This will not be required when the water main is at least two (2) feet above the sewer.
(Ord. No. 512, § 9.06, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-117. - Sidewalks.
(a)
Required improvements.
(1)
Sidewalks where required shall be included within the dedicated non-pavement right-of-way of all roads.
(2)
Concrete curbs are required for all roads when sidewalks are required by these regulations or when required in the discretion of the city council.
(3)
Sidewalks shall be improved as required in section 19-113(b)(2) of these regulations. A median strip of grassed or landscaped areas at least two (2) feet wide shall separate all sidewalks from adjacent curbs.
(b)
Pedestrian accesses. The city council may require, in order to facilitate pedestrian access from the roads to schools, parks, playgrounds, or other nearby roads, perpetual unobstructed easements at least twenty (20) feet in width. Easements shall be indicated on the plat.
(Ord. No. 512, § 9.07, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-118. - Utilities.
(a)
Location. All utility facilities, including but not limited to gas, electric power, telephone, and CATV cables, shall be located underground throughout the subdivision. Whenever existing utility facilities are located above ground, except when existing on public roads and rights-of-ways, they shall be removed and placed underground. All utility facilities existing and proposed throughout the subdivision shall be shown on the preliminary plat. Underground service connections to the street property line of each platted lot shall be installed at the subdivider's expense. At the discretion of the city council, the requirement for service connections to each lot may be waived in the case of adjoining lots to be retained in single ownership and intended to be developed for the same primary use.
(b)
Easements. Easements centered on lines shall be provided for utilities (private and municipal) and such easements shall be at least ten (10) feet wide. Proper coordination shall be established between the subdivider and the applicable utility companies for the establishment of utility easements established in adjoining properties.
(Ord. No. 512, § 9.08, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-119. - Nonresidential subdivisions.
(a)
General. If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect to the land shall make provision as the city council may require. A nonresidential subdivision shall also be subject to all the requirements of site plan approval set forth in the zoning ordinance. Site plan approval and nonresidential subdivision plat approval may proceed simultaneously at the discretion of the city council. A nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all the requirements of these regulations, as well as such additional standards required by the city council, and shall conform to the proposed land use and standards established in the master plan, official map, and zoning ordinance.
(b)
Standards. In addition to the principles and standards in these regulations, which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city council the street, parcel and block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The following principles and standards shall be observed:
(1)
Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions to the types of industrial development anticipated.
(2)
Street rights-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
(3)
Special requirements may be imposed by the city council with respect to street, curb, gutter and sidewalk design and construction.
(4)
Special requirements may be imposed by the city council with respect to the installation of public utilities, including water, sewer and stormwater drainage.
(5)
Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas from potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision, including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped buffer strip when necessary.
(6)
Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic, shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or potential areas.
(Ord. No. 512, § 9.08, 12-14-98)
Secs. 19-120—19-130. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE

Sec. 19-131. - Prior approval.
No construction activity of any kind including grading and the installation of improvements shall begin on any land subject to this chapter without prior approval of the engineering requirements and preliminary plat by the Cairo City Council.
(Ord. No. 512, § 10.01, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-132. - Grading.
Grading operations may begin following approval of the preliminary plat or the institution of a subdivision improvement agreement and the posting of both a performance and maintenance bond.
(Ord. No. 512, § 10.02, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-133. - Inspections.
Periodic inspection during the installation of the physical improvements in a subdivision shall be made by a duly authorized official of Cairo to insure conformity with the approved plans and specifications. The subdivider shall notify the city when each phase of the installation is completed and ready for inspection.
(Ord. No. 512, § 10.03, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-134. - Sale and transfer.
No lot or parcel of land shall be sold or transferred until the final plat, of which said lot or parcel is a part, shall have been approved and recorded as provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 512, § 10.04, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-135. - Occupancy.
No structure constructed concurrent with subdivision development shall be occupied until the final subdivision plat has been filed with the clerk of the superior court by the City of Cairo. If a subdivision improvement agreement is in place, no certificates of occupancy shall be granted prior to the certification by the city engineer that the required improvements have been completed to the city's standards.
(Ord. No. 512, § 10.05, 12-14-98)
Secs. 19-136—19-145. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. - VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES AND AMENDMENTS

Sec. 19-146. - Violations.
In case of any violation or attempted violation of the provisions of this chapter, the city may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such violation or attempted violation.
(Ord. No. 512, § 11.01, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-147. - Penalty.
(a)
Any owner or proprietor of any tract of land who subdivided that tract of land and who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided by the law.
(b)
Any subdivision hereafter established shall be designed, developed, and recorded in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Failure to comply with the regulations herein shall result in the following:
(1)
The city shall not accept the subdivision, nor shall it improve, maintain, grade or pave any street within such subdivision unless such street shall have met the specifications described herein. If a subdivision improvement agreement has been executed, the city engineer shall not certify that the improvements have been satisfactorily completed unless they meet the specifications described herein.
(2)
No public agency shall authorize the extension of water service, sewer service or other publicly operated services into such subdivisions.
(Ord. No. 512, § 11.02, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-148. - Amendments.
This chapter may be amended from time to time by the city but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed by or shall have been submitted to the planning commission for review and recommendations. The planning commission shall have thirty (30) days within which to make its review and submit its report. If the planning commission fails to submit a report within the thirty-day period, it shall be deemed to have approved the proposal. Before enacting an amendment to this chapter, the city shall hold one (1) public hearing thereon, at least ten (10) days' notice of the time and place of which shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Cairo.
(Ord. No. 512, § 11.03, 12-14-98)
Secs. 19-149—19-155. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IX. - APPEALS

Sec. 19-156. - Purpose of article.
This article is established to identify the procedure whereby any aggrieved party may appeal the decision of the zoning administrator, city clerk, planning commission or any other party.
(Ord. No. 512, Art. XII, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-157. - Appeal to the city council.
Any party aggrieved because of the alleged error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the building inspector, planning commission or any other party in enforcement of this chapter, may appeal in writing to the city clerk for and receive a hearing by the city council for an interpretation of the pertinent ordinance [chapter] provision. In exercising this power of interpretation, the city council may, in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the building inspector, planning commission or any other party.
(Ord. No. 512, § 12.01, 12-14-98)
Sec. 19-158. - Appeal from the mayor and council decision.
Any party aggrieved by any decision of the city council may seek review of such decision by a court of record, as provided by law.
(Ord. No. 512, § 12.02, 12-14-98)
