ARTICLE II. - CARNIVALS AND OTHER TRAVELING ENTERTAINMENT EXHIBITIONS

Sec. 14-37. - Local sponsor required.
All carnivals and entertainment shows or other special events of a duration of more than four (4) hours appearing within the City of Cairo shall have a public or not-for-profit sponsor duly organized and having a permanent Cairo address before being permitted to locate and open a carnival, entertainment show, or special event. Such public or not-for-profit organization shall be the party obtaining the permit to hold the event if same shall be required by the city and shall appear before the mayor and council at a regularly scheduled meeting at least thirty (30) days in advance of the event to request a permit.
The mayor and council must approve all carnival or special event permit requests prior to the date(s) of the event. At the time of review by mayor and council, it shall address issues such as the site location, site plan, paper/debris left on the property, traffic patterns and parking and any other service issues related to the event.
(Ord. No. 556, § 1, 5-31-01; Ord. No. 667, § 1, 8-13-07)
Sec. 14-38. - Liability insurance, bond and permit, inspection required.
All carnivals or entertainment shows having mechanical rides, livestock or animals interacting with the public shall be required to arrange and have available liability insurance or the sponsoring organization shall arrange and have in effect liability insurance in an amount of no less than five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) at the time that the event shall be open to the public. All other entertainment events at the discretion of mayor and council be required to arrange and have available liability insurance in an amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
Before any permit or license is issued for a circus, carnival, performance or event, the applicant shall deposit with the city clerk and treasurer of the city a cash bond in the minimum amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) in addition to the regular license fee or as a damage deposit for the purpose of cleaning or repairing the event site. The deposit shall be made upon the condition that the applicant will clean up all paper and other material generated or left by the event so that the premises will be left in the same condition as when entered upon by the applicant. All markings or advertisement on poles and trees made by applicant shall be removed.
Upon termination of the event, the city shall inspect the site and such amount of damage deposit as shall not be used to restore the event site to its prior condition will be refunded.
It shall be the duty of the building official, chief of police and fire chief to see that proper inspections and patrols are made of the premises used for the activities licensed herein.
(Ord. No. 556, § 1, 5-31-01; Ord. No. 667, § 1, 8-13-07)
Sec. 14-39. - Penalty for violation.
All violations of this article shall be punished as set forth within section 1-8.
(Ord. No. 556, § 1, 5-31-01; Ord. No. 667, § 1, 8-13-07)
