ARTICLE V. - APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS

Section 5.1. - Use.
Except as hereinafter provided, no building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered unless in conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
Section 5.1.1. - Adoption and incorporation by reference the certain provisions of the Design Guidelines and Standards: Primary Connectors/Corridors & Gateways.
(a)
Adoption. Except as hereinafter provided, no building, structure, or land indicated by a map on Page 2, Design Guidelines and Standards: Primary Connectors/Corridors & Gateways labeled as "Figure 1.1: Citywide Corridors and Gateways" shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered unless in conformity with the regulations contained within the separate Design Guidelines and Standards: Primary Connectors/Corridors & Gateways, Section 3: Design Guidelines: Corridors, Section 3.8: Building Design and Section 3.9: Signage found on pages 92 through 100 therein hereby specifically incorporated as a part of this zoning code and made a part thereof as if fully set forth herein.
(b)
Minor deviations allowed. The elements now mandated in the Design Guidelines and Standards: Primary Connectors/Corridors & Gateways, Section 3: Design Guidelines: Corridors, Section 3.8: Building Design and Section 3.9: Signage found on pages 92 through 100 of said document, are intended to be followed as outlined therein and throughout the remainder of this appendix without regard to other requirements for zoned districts. In the event the intent of this section can be achieved with minor deviations which do not substantially impact the goals or intent of the mandates of these sections, the City of Calhoun has the authority to modify the specific provisions by variance as applied for and approved by the procedure contained herein below. Any application for a variance concerning alternate architectural arrangement shall be accompanied with proposed elevations, building materials, and/or renderings necessary for the mayor and city council to make a determination whether the alternate proposal meets the intent of these requirements. The mayor and city council, as part of an approval, may include conditions, modifications or requirements necessary to mitigate any part of their decision.
(Ord. No. 1006 , § 1, 2-24-2020)
Section 5.2. - Height and density.
Except as hereinafter provided, no building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:
5.2.1. To exceed height limits;
5.2.2. To accommodate or house a greater number of families or occupy a smaller lot area per family; or
5.2.3. To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or other open spaces than herein required or specified; or in any other manner contrary to the provisions of the ordinance.
Section 5.3. - Yard service to one building.
Except as hereinafter provided, no part of a yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or loading space required about, or in connection with, any building for the purpose of complying with this ordinance, shall be included as a part of a yard, open space, or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other building.
Section 5.4. - Only one principal building.
Except as hereinafter provided, every building or structure hereafter erected shall be located on a lot or tract as defined herein and there shall not be more than one principal building on one lot, plus its accessory buildings, except as provided in article IX, section 9.4 of this ordinance.
Section 5.5. - Reduction of lot area.
Except as hereinafter provided, no lot, even though it may consist of one or more adjacent lots of record, shall be reduced in size so that the lot width or depth, front, side or rear yard, lot area per family, or other requirements of this ordinance, are not maintained. This section shall not apply when a portion of a lot is acquired for public purposes.
Section 5.6. - Street frontage.
Except as hereinafter provided, no principal building shall be erected on any lot which does not have immediate frontage on at least one public street for a distance of not less than 25 feet.
Section 5.7. - Corner and double frontage of lots.
Except as hereinafter provided, on lots having frontage on more than one street in residential districts, the minimum front yard shall be provided for each street in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance.
Section 5.8. - Inspection of required buffers.
Except as hereinafter provided, in the event a screen, wall, fence, planted dividing strip, or any other type of buffer is required by this ordinance for any use, such screen, wall, etc., will be subjected to periodic inspections by the building inspector to determine that such required walls, fences, etc., are being properly maintained. Failure to maintain such required walls, fences, etc. to an acceptable standard may be deemed a violation of this ordinance.
Section 5.9. - Septic tanks prohibited.
No septic tank or septic system shall be installed in districts R-1, R-1A or R-1B, except in an existing lot(s) of record as defined in this ordinance.
