ARTICLE IV. - GRADING[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 82; grades, § 82-43.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 46-161. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
As-graded means the surface conditions extant on completion of grading.
Bedrock means in-place solid rock.
Bench means a relatively level step excavated into earth material on which fill is to be placed.
Borrow means earth material acquired from an off-site location for use in grading on a site.
Certification means a written engineering or geological opinion concerning the progress and completion of the work.
Civil engineer means a professional engineer registered in the state to practice in the field of civil works.
Civil engineering means the application of the knowledge of the forces of nature, principles of mechanics and the properties of materials to the evaluation, design and construction of civil works for the beneficial uses of mankind.
Compaction means the densification of a fill by mechanical means.
Earth material means any rock, natural soil or fill and/or any combination thereof.
Engineering geologist means a geologist experienced and knowledgeable in engineering geology.
Engineering geology means the application of geologic knowledge and principles in the investigation and evaluation of naturally occurring rock and soil for use in the design of civil works.
Erosion means the wearing away of the ground surface as a result of the movement of wind, water and/or ice.
Excavation means the mechanical removal of earth material.
Existing grade means the grade prior to grading.
Fill means a deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
Finish grade means the final grade of the site which conforms to the approved plan.
Grade means the vertical location of the ground surface.
Grading means any excavating or filling or combination thereof.
Key means a designed compacted fill placed in a trench excavated in earth material beneath the toe of a proposed fill slope.
Rough grade means the stage at which the grade approximately conforms to the approved plan.
Site means any lot or parcel of land or contiguous combination thereof, under the same ownership, where grading is performed or permitted.
Slope means an inclined ground surface the inclination of which is expressed as a ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance.
Soil means naturally occurring surficial deposits overlying bedrock.
Soil engineer means a professional engineer experienced and knowledgeable in the practice of soil engineering.
Soil engineering means the application of the principles of soil mechanics in the investigation, evaluation and design of civil works involving the use of earth materials and the inspection and testing of the construction thereof.
Terrace means a relatively level step constructed in the face of a graded slope surface for drainage and maintenance purposes.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-104), 9-28-1998)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 46-162. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to safeguard life, limb, property and the public welfare by regulating grading on private property.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-100), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-163. - Scope.
This article sets forth rules and regulations to control excavation, grading and earthwork construction, including fills and embankments; establishes the administrative procedure for issuance of permits; and provides for approval of plans and inspection of grading construction.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-101), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-164. - Elimination of hazards.
Whenever the building official determines that any existing excavation or embankment or fill on private property has become a hazard to life and limb, endangers property, or adversely affects the safety, use or stability of a public way or drainage channel, the owner of the property upon which the excavation or fill is located, or other person or agent in control of such property, upon receipt of notice in writing from the building official, shall, within the period specified therein, repair or eliminate such excavation or embankment so as to eliminate the hazard and be in conformance with the requirements of this article.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-103), 9-28-1998)
Secs. 46-165—46-180. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMITS AND PLANS

Sec. 46-181. - Permit required.
Except as exempted in section 46-182, no person shall do any grading without first obtaining a grading permit from the building official. A separate permit shall be required for each site, and may cover both excavations and fills.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-201), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-182. - Exemptions.
No person shall do any grading without first having obtained a grading permit from the building official, except for the following:
(1)
Grading in an isolated, self-contained area, if there is no danger apparent to private or public property.
(2)
An excavation below finished grade for basements and footings of a building, retaining wall or other structure authorized by a valid building permit. This shall not exempt any fill made with the material from such excavation or exempt any excavation having an unsupported height greater than five feet after the completion of such structure.
(3)
Cemetery graves.
(4)
Refuse disposal sites controlled by other regulations.
(5)
Excavations for wells or tunnels or utilities.
(6)
Mining, quarrying, excavating, processing, or stockpiling of rock, sand, gravel, aggregate or clay where established and provided for by law provided such operations do not affect the lateral support or increase the stresses in or pressure upon any adjacent or contiguous property.
(7)
Exploratory excavations under the direction of soil engineers or engineering geologists.
(8)
An excavation which:
a.
Is less than two feet in depth; or
b.
Does not create a cut slope greater than five feet in height and steeper than 1½ horizontal to one vertical.
(9)
A fill less than one foot in depth, and placed on natural terrain with a slope flatter than five horizontal to one vertical, or less than three feet in depth, not intended to support structures, which does not exceed 50 cubic yards on any one lot and does not obstruct a drainage course.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-102), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-183. - Application for permit.
To obtain a permit under this article, the applicant shall first file an application therefor in writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every such application shall:
(1)
Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which application is made.
(2)
Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done, by lot, block, tract, and house and street address, or similar description that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work.
(3)
Be accompanied by plans and specifications as required in section 46-184.
(4)
State the estimated quantities of work involved.
(5)
Be signed by the permittee, or his authorized agent, who may be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
(6)
Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the building official.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-202), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-184. - Requirements for plans and specifications.
(a)
When required by the building official, each application for a grading permit shall be accompanied by two sets of plans and specifications, and supporting data consisting of a soil engineering report and engineering geology report. The plans and specifications shall be prepared and signed by a civil engineer when required by the building official.
(b)
Plans shall be drawn to scale upon substantial paper or cloth and shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the nature and extent of the work proposed and show in detail that they will conform to the provisions of this article and all relevant laws, rules and regulations. The first sheet of each set of plans shall give the location of the work, the name and address of the owner and the person by whom they were prepared.
(c)
The plans shall include the following information:
(1)
General vicinity of the proposed site.
(2)
Property limits and accurate contours of existing ground and details of terrain and area drainage.
(3)
Limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be achieved by the grading, and proposed drainage channels and related construction.
(4)
Detailed plans of all surface and subsurface drainage devices, walls, cribbing, dams and other protective devices to be constructed with, or as a part of, the proposed work, together with a map showing the drainage area and the estimated runoff of the area served by any drains.
(5)
Location of any buildings or structures on the property where the work is to be performed and the location of any buildings or structures on land of adjacent owners which are within 15 feet of the property or which may be affected by the proposed grading operations.
(d)
Specifications shall contain information covering construction and material requirements.
(e)
All elevations must be stated in mean sea level datum and this fact indicated in a note on the plan sheet.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-203), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-185. - Soil engineering report.
The soil engineering report required by section 46-184(a) shall include data regarding the nature, distribution and strength of existing soils, conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures and design criteria for corrective measures when necessary, and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be developed by the proposed grading. Recommendations included in the report and approved by the building official shall be incorporated in the grading plans or specifications.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-204), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-186. - Engineering geology report.
The engineering geology report required by section 46-184(a) shall include an adequate description of the geology of the site, conclusions and recommendations regarding the effect of geologic conditions on the proposed development, and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be developed by the proposed grading. Recommendations included in the report and approved by the building official shall be incorporated in the grading plans or specifications.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-205), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-187. - Issuance of permit.
The application, plans, and specifications filed by an applicant for a grading permit shall be checked by the building official. Such plans may be reviewed by other departments of the city to check compliance with the laws and ordinances under their jurisdiction. If the building official is satisfied that the work described in an application for permit and the plans filed therewith conform to the requirements of this article and other pertinent laws, and that the fees specified in sections 46-211 and 46-212 have been paid, he shall issue a permit therefor to the applicant. When the building official issues the permit, he shall endorse in writing or stamp on both sets of plans and specifications "APPROVED." Such approved plans and specifications shall not be changed, modified, or altered without authorization from the building official, and all work shall be done in accordance with the approved plans.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-206(a)), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-188. - Retention of plans.
One set of approved plans, specifications, computations and reports shall be retained by the building official for a period of not less than 90 days from date of completion of the work covered therein, and one set of approved plans and specifications shall be returned to the applicant for the grading permit, which set shall be kept on such site at all times while the work authorized thereby is in progress.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-206(b)), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-189. - Validity of permit; modification of permit.
The issuance or granting of a grading permit or approval of plans and specifications shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this article. No permit presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this article shall be valid, except insofar as the work or use which it authorizes is lawful. The issuance of a permit based upon plans, specifications, and reports shall not prevent the building official from thereafter requiring the correction of errors in such plans and specifications. The building official may require that grading operations and project design be modified if delays occur which incur weather-generated problems not considered at the time the permit was issued.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-206(c)), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-190. - Expiration of permit.
Every permit issued by the building official under the provisions of this article shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 120 days from the date of such permit. The work authorized by such permit shall not be suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced, but shall be carried through to completion.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-206(d)), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-191. - Suspension or revocation of permit.
The building official may, in writing, suspend or revoke a permit issued under provisions of this article whenever the permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-206(e)), 9-28-1998)
Secs. 46-192—46-210. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - FEES AND BONDS

Sec. 46-211. - Plan-checking fee.
(a)
For excavation and fill on the same site, the fee shall be based on the volume of the excavation or fill, whichever is greater. Before accepting a set of plans and specifications for checking, the building official shall collect a plan-checking fee. Separate permits and fees shall apply to retaining walls or major drainage structures, as required by the building code. There shall be no separate charge for standard terrace drains and similar facilities. The amount of the plan-checking fee for grading plans shall be as set forth in a separate fee resolution.
(b)
The plan-checking fee for a grading permit authorizing additional work to that under a valid permit shall be the difference between such fee paid for the original permit and the fee shown for the entire project.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-301), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-212. - Grading permit fee.
A fee for each grading permit shall be paid to the building official as set forth in a separate fee resolution. The fee for a grading permit authorizing additional work to that under a valid permit shall be the difference between the fee paid for the original permit and the fee shown for the entire project.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-302), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-213. - Bonds.
The building official may require bonds in such form and amounts as may be deemed necessary to ensure that the work, if not completed in accordance with the approved plans and specifications, will be corrected to eliminate hazardous conditions. In lieu of a surety bond, the applicant may file a cash bond or instrument of credit with the building official in an amount equal to that which would be required in the surety bond.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-401), 9-28-1998)
Secs. 46-214—46-230. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - GRADING STANDARDS AND INSPECTIONS

Sec. 46-231. - Cuts.
(a)
Generally. Unless otherwise recommended in the approved soil engineering and/or engineering geology report, cuts shall conform to the provisions of this article.
(b)
Slope. The slope of cut surfaces shall be no steeper than is safe for the intended use. Cut slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical.
(c)
Drainage and terracing. Drainage and terracing shall be provided as required by section 46-234.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-500), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-232. - Fills.
(a)
Generally. Unless otherwise recommended in the approved soil engineering report, fills shall conform to the provisions of this section. In the absence of an approved soil engineering report, these provisions may be waived for minor fills not intended to support structures.
(b)
Location of fill slopes. Fill slopes shall not be constructed on natural slopes steeper than two to one or where the fill slope toes out within 12 feet horizontally of the top of existing or planned cut slopes.
(c)
Preparation of ground. The ground surface shall be prepared to receive fill by removing vegetation, noncomplying fill, topsoil and other unsuitable materials as determined by the soil engineer, and, where the slopes are five to one or steeper, by benching into sound bedrock or other competent material.
(d)
Fill material. Earth materials which have no more than minor amounts of organic substances and have no rock or similar irreducible material with a maximum dimension greater than eight inches shall be used.
(e)
Compaction. All fills shall be compacted to a minimum of 90 percent of maximum density as determined by ASTM standard for the moisture density relations of soils, D1557-58T. Field density shall be determined in accordance with ASTM standard for the in-place density of soils, D15356-58T, or equivalent, as approved by the building official.
(f)
Slope of fill surfaces. The slope of fill surfaces shall be no steeper than is safe for the intended use. Fill slopes shall be no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical.
(g)
Drainage and terracing. Drainage and terracing shall be provided and the area above fill slopes and the surfaces of terraces shall be graded and paved as required by section 46-234.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-600), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-233. - Setbacks.
(a)
The tops and the toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from property boundaries as far as necessary for safety of the adjacent properties, and to prevent damage resulting from water runoff or erosion of the slopes. The tops and the toes of cut and fill slopes shall be set back from structures as far as is necessary for adequacy of foundation support and to prevent damage as a result of water runoff or erosion of the slopes.
(b)
Unless otherwise recommended in the approved soil engineering and/or engineering geology report and shown on the approved grading plan, setbacks shall be no less than shown in table A.
TABLE A. SETBACKS
EXPAND
H in feet a
(feet) b
(feet) c
(feet) d
(feet)
0—10 3 2 3 5
11—30 (H/2) 3 (H/2) 7
31 and over 15 3 15 10
  (Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-700), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-234. - Drainage and terracing.
(a)
Generally. Unless otherwise indicated on the approved grading plan, drainage facilities and terracing shall conform to the provisions of this section.
(b)
Terraces.
(1)
Terraces at least six feet in width shall be established at not more than 30-foot vertical intervals to control surface drainage and debris. Suitable access shall be provided to permit proper cleaning and maintenance.
(2)
Swales or ditches on terraces shall have a minimum gradient of five percent and must be paved with reinforced concrete not less than three inches in thickness or an approved equal paving. They shall have a minimum depth at the deepest point of one foot and a minimum paved width of five feet. A single tun of a swale or ditch shall not collect runoff from a tributary area exceeding 13,500 square feet (projected) without discharging into a down drain.
(c)
Subsurface drainage. Cut and fill slopes shall be provided with subsurface drainage as necessary for stability.
(d)
Disposal of water. All drainage facilities shall be designed to carry waters to the nearest practicable drainageway approved by the building official and/or other appropriate jurisdiction as a safe place to deposit such waters. If drainage facilities discharge onto natural ground, riprap may be required. At least two percent gradient toward approved drainage facilities from building pads will be required unless waived by the building official for nonhilly terrain. The gradient from the building pad may be one percent where building construction and erosion control will be completed before hazardous conditions can occur.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-800), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-235. - Erosion control.
(a)
Slopes. The faces of cut and fill slopes shall be prepared and maintained to control against erosion. This control may consist of effective planting. The protection for the slope shall be installed as soon as practicable and prior to calling for final approval. Where cut slopes are not subject to erosion due to the erosion-resistant character of the materials, such protection may be omitted.
(b)
Other devices. Where necessary, check dams, cribbing, riprap or other devices or methods shall be employed to control erosion and provide safety.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-900), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-236. - Grading inspection.
(a)
Generally. All grading operations for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by the building official. When required by the building official, special inspection of grading, operations and special testing shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of section 46-236(c).
(b)
Grading designation. All grading in excess of 5,000 cubic yards shall be performed in accordance with the approved grading plan prepared by a civil engineer, and shall be designated as "engineered grading." Grading involving less than 5,000 cubic yards shall be designated "regular grading" unless the permittee, with the approval of the building official, chooses to have the grading performed as "engineered grading."
(c)
Engineered grading requirements.
(1)
For engineered grading, it shall be the responsibility of the civil engineer who prepares the approved grading plan to incorporate all recommendations from the soil engineering and engineering geology reports into the grading plan. He shall also be responsible for the professional inspection and certification of the grading within his area of technical specialty. This responsibility shall include, but need not be limited to, inspection and certification as to the establishment of line, grade and drainage of the development area. The civil engineer shall act as the coordinating agent in the event the need arises for liaison between the other professionals, the contractor and the building official. The civil engineer shall also be responsible for the preparation of revised plans and the submission of as-graded grading plans upon completion of the work.
(2)
Soil engineering and engineering geology reports shall be required as specified in division 2 of this article. During grading, all necessary reports, compaction data and soil engineering and engineering geology recommendations shall be submitted to the civil engineer and the building official by the soil engineer and the engineering geologist.
(3)
The soil engineer's area of responsibility shall include, but need not be limited to, professional inspection and certification concerning the preparation of ground to receive fills, testing for required compaction, stability of all finished slopes and the design of buttress fills, where required, incorporating data supplied by the engineering geologist.
(4)
The engineering geologist's area of responsibility shall include, but need not be limited to, professional inspection and certification of the adequacy of natural ground for receiving fills and the stability of cut slopes with respect to geological matters, and the need for subdrains or other groundwater drainage devices. He shall report his findings to the soil engineer and the civil engineer for engineering analysis.
(5)
The building official shall inspect the project at various stages of the work requiring certification and at any more frequent intervals necessary to determine that adequate control is being exercised by the professional consultants.
(d)
Regular grading requirements. The building official may require inspection and testing by an approved testing agency. The testing agency's responsibility shall include, but need not be limited to, certification concerning the inspection of cleared areas and benches to receive fill, and the compaction of fills. When the building official has cause to believe that geologic factors may be involved, the grading operation will be required to conform to "engineered grading" requirements.
(e)
Notification of noncompliance. If, in the course of fulfilling their responsibility under this article, the civil engineer, the soil engineer, the engineering geologist or the testing agency finds that the work is not being done in conformance with this article or the approved grading plans, the discrepancies shall be reported immediately in writing to the person in charge of the grading work and to the building official. Recommendations for corrective measures, if necessary, shall be submitted.
(f)
Transfer of responsibility for certification. If the civil engineer, the soil engineer, the engineering geologist or the testing agency of record is changed during the course of the work, the work shall be stopped until the replacement has agreed to accept the responsibility within the area of the replacement's technical competence for certification upon completion of the work.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-1000), 9-28-1998)
Sec. 46-237. - Completion of work.
(a)
Final reports. Upon completion of the rough grading work and at the final completion of the work, the building official may require the following reports and drawings, and supplements thereto:
(1)
An as-graded grading plan prepared by the civil engineer including original ground surface elevations, as-graded ground surface elevations, lot drainage patterns and locations and elevations of all surface and subsurface drainage facilities. He shall provide certification that the work was done in accordance with the final approved grading plan.
(2)
A soil grading report prepared by the soil engineer including locations and elevations of field density tests, summaries of field and laboratory tests and other substantiating data and comments on any changes made during grading and their effect on the recommendations made in the soil engineering investigation report. He shall provide certification as to the adequacy of the site for the intended use.
(3)
A geologic grading report prepared by the engineering geologist including a final description of the geology of the site including any new information disclosed during the grading and the effect of such information on recommendations incorporated in the approved grading plan. He shall provide certification as to the adequacy of the site for the intended use as affected by geologic factors.
(b)
Notification of completion. The permittee or his agent shall notify the building official when the grading operation is ready for final inspection. Final approval shall not be given until all work, including installation of all drainage facilities and their protective devices, and all erosion control measures have been completed in accordance with the final approved grading plan, and the required reports have been submitted.
(Ord. No. 649, § 1(17-50-1100), 9-28-1998)
Secs. 46-238—46-260. - Reserved.
