ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 94-1. - Connection permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to connect to any water line, electric line, sewer line, or telecommunications line owned or controlled by the city, either inside or outside the city, without written authorization of the utilities general manager or his designee.
Sec. 94-2. - Application for service.
The consumer shall make application for electric, water and sewer service, in person, at Calhoun Utilities, and at the same time shall make the required security deposit.
(Code 1988, § 11-2)
Sec. 94-3. - Access to premises by city; easements for transmission lines.
(a)
Duly authorized agents of the city shall have access at all hours to the premises of the consumer for the purpose of installing or removing city property, inspecting piping and lines, or reading and testing meters, or for any other purpose in connection with the water, sewer or electrical service and their facilities.
(b)
Extensions to the systems shall be made only when the consumer shall grant or convey or shall cause to be granted or conveyed to the city a permanent easement of right-of-way across any property traversed by the water, sewer or electrical lines.
(Code 1988, § 11-5)
Sec. 94-4. - Notification to city of change of occupancy or request for discontinuance of service.
Not less than three days' notice shall be given, in person or in writing, at Calhoun Utilities to discontinue water, sewer or electrical service or to change occupancy. The outgoing party shall be responsible for all water or electricity consumed or sewer service received up to the time of departure or the time specified for departure, whichever period is longer. The new occupant shall apply for service within 48 hours after occupying the premises and failure to do so will make such person liable for paying for the water or electricity consumed or sewer service received since the last meter reading.
(Code 1988, § 11-6)
Sec. 94-5. - Damaging meters.
(a)
Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or disturb in any manner or form any water/electric meters, locks, cutoffs, seals or other devices of the utility, or to use any water/electricity after service has been cut off for nonpayment or other cause. Furthermore, it shall be unlawful to keep any water /electric meter from registering properly.
(b)
Bond. If a meter has been damaged two or more times within a 12-month period, before service can be restored the consumer shall post a cash bond of $500.00, to be refunded with interest after 12 months on the condition that there has been no further damage to the meter and all bills for services have been timely paid.
(c)
Damaged equipment. Customers are responsible for the safeguard and protection of any meter, electric or water, and any other related equipment furnished by the utility. If damage to the equipment is the result of carelessness and/or negligence on the part of the customer, the customer will be liable for the expense of repair or replacement of the equipment.
(Code 1988, § 11-8)
Sec. 94-6. - Repair of meters.
It shall be the duty of the city to repair all water and electric meters that are in need of repair.
(Code 1988, § 11-9)
Sec. 94-7. - Use of more than one meter.
When more than one meter is in use by the same party under the same roof, the readings of each meter shall be listed on the monthly billing, shall be subject to a minimum charge and shall be listed separately on the monthly bill. In the case of a meter supplying more than one dwelling, a minimum charge and deposit will be required from each residence.
(Code 1988, § 11-11)
Sec. 94-8. - Maintenance of wires, lines and pipes.
(a)
All wires, lines and pipes upon the premises of a customer to which the city's service is connected shall be installed, changed and maintained by the customer in accordance with the requirements of any public authorities or insurance agencies exercising authority thereover.
(b)
The customer shall also give all necessary permission to enable the agents of the city to construct and maintain its lines and circuits in and at all places required by the city and owned, leased or controlled by the customer.
(Code 1988, § 11-10)
Sec. 94-9. - Delay in delivery or temporary interruption of service.
(a)
If the city is delayed in the delivery of water or sewer service contracted for by injunction, strike, riot, invasion, fire, flood, explosion, breakdown, acts of God, or the public enemy, or any cause beyond its control, the time fixed for the commencement of delivery of service shall be extended.
(b)
The city shall not be liable to a customer, nor shall a customer be liable to the city, by reason of the failure of the city to deliver or the customer to receive service as the result of fire, strike, riot, explosion, flood, accident, breakdown, acts of God, or the public enemy, or other acts beyond the control of the party affected, it being the intention of each party to relieve the other of the obligation to supply service or to receive and pay for service when, as a result of any of the causes mentioned in this section, either party may be unable to deliver or use in whole or in part the service contracted to be delivered or received.
(c)
The city shall not guarantee that the supply of service will be free from temporary interruptions, and the city shall not be liable to the customer for damages resulting from a temporary interruption. In the event of interruptions to service, the city shall restore the service as soon as it reasonably can do so, and will, at all times, exert itself toward the end of supplying as nearly constant service as is reasonably practicable.
(Code 1988, § 11-13)
Sec. 94-10. - Responsibility for damages.
Neither the city nor its customer shall be responsible for damage to the machinery, apparatus, appliances or other property of the other caused by acts of God or by defects in or failure of the machinery, apparatus or appliances of the one suffering such damage from the causes set out in section 94-9, and the city shall not be in any way responsible for the delivery of service beyond the point of its delivery to the customer, and shall not be liable for damages on account of injuries to person or property resulting in any manner from the receiving, use or application by the customer of such service. The customer shall keep the machinery, lines, apparatus and appliances in a safe condition and shall indemnify and save harmless the city from the payment of any sums of money to any person whomsoever, including attorneys' fees and court costs, which it may be called upon to pay on account of damage to property or injuries to individuals resulting from or which may be in any way caused by the operation and maintenance of the machinery, lines, apparatus and appliances belonging to the customer.
(Code 1988, § 11-14)
Secs. 94-11—94-30. - Reserved.
