ARTICLE IX. - EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS

Section 9.1. - Lot of record.
9.1.1. Single lots. Where the owner of a lot of record at the time of the adoption of this ordinance or his successor in title thereto does not own sufficient land to enable him to conform to the dimensional requirements of this ordinance, such lot may be used as a building site for a single-family residence in a district where residences are permitted.
9.1.2. Adjoining lots. If two or more adjoining lots of record with continuous frontage are in a single ownership at any time after the adoption of this ordinance and such lots individually are too small to meet the yard, width, and area requirements of the district in which they are located, such groups of lots shall be considered as a single lot or several lots of minimum permitted size and the lot or lots in one ownership shall be subject to the requirements of this ordinance.
Section 9.2. - Front yard setbacks for dwellings.
The setback requirements of this ordinance for dwellings shall not apply to any lot where the average existing building setback line on lots located wholly or in part within 100 feet on each side of such lot, within the same block and zoning district, and fronting on the same side of the street as such lot is less than the minimum setback required. In such case, the setback on such lots may be less than the required setback, but not less than the average of the existing setbacks on the aforementioned lots, and in no case less than ten feet from the street right-of-way.
Section 9.3. - Height limits.
The height limitations of this ordinance shall not apply to church spires, belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human occupancy; monuments, water towers, observation towers, transmission towers, chimneys, smokestacks, conveyors, flagpoles, radio towers, television towers, masts, aerials, and similar structures.
Section 9.4. - Group projects.
A group project (including, but not limited to, residential, commercial, industrial, educational, medical, religious, or civic uses) of two or more buildings to be constructed on a plot of land of at least two acres not subdivided into customary streets and lots, and which will not be so subdivided, may be constructed provided:
9.4.1. Such uses are limited to those permitted within the district in which the project is located.
9.4.2. The overall intensity of land use is no higher, and the standard of open space is no lower than that permitted on the district in which the project is located.
9.4.3. The distance of every building from the nearest property line shall meet the front yard setback and side yard requirements of the district in which the project is located.
9.4.4. The building heights do not exceed the height limits permitted in the district in which the project is located.
