Chapter 3. - ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE A. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 2-3-1. - Official oath.
All officers whether elective or appointive shall take an oath for the faithful performance of their duties, except in cases where a particular oath is prescribed by Charter or ordinance.
(Code 1970, § 2-6)
Charter reference— Recorder, § 6-2(3).
Sec. 2-3-2. - Performance bonds of employees.
The mayor and council, shall, by resolution, prescribe the amount and terms of surety bonds conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of office of any officer or employee of the city charged with the responsibility of handling moneys on a regular basis.
Charter reference— Corporate powers, § 1-3(30); bond of clerk, § 2-10; city manager, § 3-3(12).
Secs. 2-3-3—2-3-10. - Reserved.
ARTICLE B. - ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS

Sec. 2-3-11. - City manager.
As chief administrative officer of the city, the city manager shall perform those duties required of him by the city charter and any other lawful duties that may be required of him by ordinance or resolution of the mayor and council.
Charter reference— City manager, § 3-3; city manager to submit annual budget, § 4-2.
Sec. 2-3-12. - City clerk.
In addition to the duties assigned to the city clerk under the City Charter, the city clerk or employees under the clerk's direction shall have the following duties:
(1)
To attend every meeting of the council, and keep a complete record of all the proceedings in the minute book;
(2)
To receive all applications or petitions made to the city and transmit them to the city manager for presentation to the city council at the meeting of council next succeeding the receipt thereof;
(3)
To be the custodian of the city seal and affix its impression on documents whenever required;
(4)
To establish and maintain a repository for the official copies of all codes, records and documents that belong to the city and to maintain a proper index to all records and documents so that ready access thereto and use thereof may be had;
(5)
To receive all money due the city, including taxes, and pay out the same only upon orders of the city manager or mayor;
(6)
To co-sign, when necessary, disbursements with the city manager or mayor as may be provided by rules and regulations of the city and to attest to the city manager's or mayor's signature on all contracts;
(7)
To perform the duties of city treasurer until otherwise provided by the council;
(8)
To serve as secretary to any boards and commissions of the city; and
(9)
To perform any other duties that may be assigned to the city clerk under this Code or by the city manager.
Charter reference— Bond of clerk, § 2-10.
Sec. 2-3-13. - City attorney; duties; compensation and qualifications.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the city attorney:
(1)
To be legal advisor to the mayor and council;
(2)
At the request of the council, to represent the city in all legal matters before any court in which he is licensed to practice;
(3)
To defend all officers or employees of the city when any suit or prosecution for any official act or nonperformance of duties instituted by anyone other than the city is pending;
(4)
To institute and conduct any suit ordered by the council;
(5)
To do every professional act incident to and necessarily connected with his office;
(6)
To advise any officer or employee in the matters connected with official duties;
(7)
To prosecute offenders against the city before the recorder's court, as may be requested by the mayor or council; and
(8)
To give such bond as required by the mayor and council.
(b)
The city attorney's compensation shall be as fixed by the mayor and council.
(c)
The city attorney at the time of his appointment shall have been a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia for a period of five years.
Charter reference— Duties of mayor and council, § 3-2.
Secs. 2-3-14—2-3-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE C. - DEPARTMENTAL ORGANIZATION

Sec. 2-3-21. - Department of administration.
A department of administration is hereby created for the city. The department shall be composed of the city clerk and any other employees as may be necessary. The department shall assist the city manager in providing administrative services to the city government. Subject to the direction of the city manager, the supervision and control of the department is vested in the city clerk.
Sec. 2-3-22. - Police department.
A police department is hereby created for the city. The department shall be composed of a chief of police and any police officers or other employees as may be necessary. Subject to the direction of the city manager, the supervision and control of the department is vested in the chief of police.
Cross reference— Law enforcement, tit. 4, ch. 1.
Sec. 2-3-23. - Fire department.
A fire department is hereby created for the city. The department shall be composed of a fire chief and any fire officers or other employees as may be necessary. Subject to the direction of the city manager, the supervision and control of the department is vested in the fire chief.
Cross reference— Fire protection and prevention, tit. 4, ch. 2.
Sec. 2-3-24. - Street department.
A street department is hereby created for the city. The department shall be composed of a superintendent and any other employees as may be necessary. Subject to the direction of the city manager, the supervision and control of the department is vested in the superintendent.
Cross reference— Streets and sidewalks, tit. 5, ch. 1.
Sec. 2-3-25. - Sanitation department.
A sanitation department is hereby created for the city. The department shall be composed of a superintendent and any other employees as may be necessary. Subject to the direction of the city manager, the supervision and control of the department is vested in the superintendent.
Cross reference— Solid waste collection and disposal, tit. 5, ch. 3.
Sec. 2-3-26. - Water and sewer department.
A water and sewer department is hereby created for the city. The department shall be composed of a superintendent and any other employees as may be necessary. Subject to the direction of the city manager, the supervision and control of the department is vested in the superintendent.
Cross reference— Water supply and distribution, tit. 6, ch. 2; sewers and sewage disposal, tit. 6, ch. 3.
Sec. 2-3-27. - Gas department.
A gas department is hereby created for the city. The department shall be composed of a superintendent and any other employees as may be necessary. Subject to the direction of the city manager, the supervision and control of the department is vested in the superintendent.
Cross reference— General provisions, tit. 6, ch. 1.
Sec. 2-3-28. - Electric department.
A electric department is hereby created for the city. The department shall be composed of a superintendent and any other employees as may be necessary. Subject to the direction of the city manager, the supervision and control of the department is vested in the superintendent.
Cross reference— General provisions, tit. 6, ch. 1.
Secs. 2-3-29—2-3-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE D. - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES

Sec. 2-3-41. - Designation.
(a)
The city boards, commissions and authorities now in existence under this Code or under state law are hereby designated as follows:
(1)
Board of zoning appeals;
(2)
Planning commission;
(3)
Recreation commission;
(4)
Industrial development authority;
(5)
Stadium authority; and
(6)
Housing authority.
(b)
Unless otherwise provided by state law, the member of boards and commissions of the city shall be appointed by the mayor and council for terms of office as specified.
Cross reference— Board of zoning appeals, tit. 8, ch. 6, art. H; planning commission, tit. 8, ch. 1, art. A; recreation commission, tit. 7, ch. 1; Downtown Camilla Development Authority, pt. 1, RSL, tit. 1.
