Title 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter 1. - USE OF CODE AND PENALTIES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Construction of statutes generally, Ga. Code Ann., § 102-102; meaning of certain words, Ga. Code Ann., § 102-103.

Sec. 1-1-1. - How code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "Code of the City of Camilla, Georgia, 1981," and may be so cited.
Charter reference— Codification of ordinances, § 2-13.
Sec. 1-1-2. - Rules of construction.
(a)
General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and any others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to the peculiar and appropriate meaning.
(b)
Acts by agents. When any provision of this code requires an act to be done which may be law as well be done by an agent as by the principal the requisition shall be construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
(c)
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by the code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be controlling.
(d)
Joint authority. All words purporting to give a joint authority to three or more city officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of the officers or other persons unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared in the provisions giving the authority.
(e)
Unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council, in the construction of this code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed.
(1)
City shall mean the City of Camilla, Georgia.
(2)
City council or council shall mean the mayor and members of council, or such other duly constituted governing body as the city may have, of the City of Camilla, Georgia.
(3)
County shall mean the County of Mitchell, Georgia unless otherwise indicated.
(4)
Gender [shall mean that] a word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
(5)
May is always directory and not mandatory.
(6)
Number [shall mean] words used in the singular shall include the plural, and words used in the plural shall include the singular number.
(7)
Oath shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which by law an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
(8)
Officials or officers, etc. [shall mean that] whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, i.e., "city clerk," "chief of police," etc., they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., of the City of Camilla, Georgia.
(9)
Or; and [shall mean that] "or" may be read [as] "and," and "and" may be read [as] "or," if the sense requires it.
(10)
Person shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations and bodies politic and corporate, or any combination thereof, as well as to individuals.
(11)
Shall is always mandatory and not directory.
(12)
Signature and subscription shall include a mark when the person cannot write.
(13)
State shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
(14)
Street shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public streets and ways in the city and shall embrace all parts thereof constituting the designated rights-of-way.
Sec. 1-1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of sections of this Code, printed in boldface type, italics, or otherwise, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections including the catchlines are amended or reenacted.
(Code 1970, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinances repealed.
(Code 1970, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the governing body that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such constitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Code 1970, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-1-6. - Amendment to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, the repealed portion may be excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of this code in substantially the following language: "That section _______ of the Code of the City of Camilla, Georgia is hereby amended to read as follows: _______ (Set out new provisions in full) _______."
(c)
When the governing body desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the Code, which the governing body desires to incorporate into the Code, a section in substantially the following language shall be made a part of the ordinance:
"Section _______. It is the intention of the governing body and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of the City of Camilla, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish that intention."
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1970, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part of portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City of Camilla, Georgia to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 hereof.
(Code 1970, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-1-8. - General penalty.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in the Code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation or concealing of a violation, or the harboring, assisting or protecting of a person charged with or convicted of a violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.00, or by confinement in the city or county jail for a term not to exceed 180 days, or both. In lieu of or in addition to a fine or confinement in jail the court may require the performance of community service provided the total time shall not exceed 180 days.
(Code 1970, § 1-8; Ord. No. 92-4, 9-14-92)
Charter reference— Corporate powers, § 1-3(31).
