ARTICLE II. - USE REGULATIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 50-17. - Skating on sidewalks and streets.
(a)
No person shall ride a bicycle or propel roller skates, skateboards, or other similar devices upon a public street, highway or sidewalk in a manner which would constitute an unreasonable danger to the public or which would disrupt the public's ordinary and customary use of such street, highway or sidewalk.
(b)
No person shall ride a bicycle or propel roller skates, skateboards, or other similar devices on sidewalks which are properly designated for pedestrians only. The chief of police and department of transportation, after approval of the mayor and city council, are authorized to erect or have erected signs on any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles or propelling of roller skates, skateboards, or other similar devices. When such signs are in place, no person shall disobey the signs.
(c)
Whenever any person is riding a bicycle or skating upon a sidewalk, that person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal before overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
(d)
Any person violating any provision of this section shall be subject to the penalties provided in section 1-12. Provided, however, that any offender under 17 years of age shall be treated as provided by state law as contained in the O.C.G.A. § 15-1-1 et seq. The parent of any child and the guardian of the person of any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit that child or ward to violate any provision of this section.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-2; Code 2002, § 50-2; Ord. of 6-1-1995(1); Ord. No. 2004-11-18, 11-18-2004)
Sec. 50-18. - Obstructions upon streets and sidewalks.
No person shall erect any steps, porticos or other obstructions encroaching upon the city streets, sidewalks or other public areas. Such obstructions shall be removed, after a reasonable notice, at the expense of the builder.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-3; Code 2002, § 50-3)
Sec. 50-19. - Obstruction with building materials.
No person shall put any lumber, wood, boxes, bricks or other such obstructions in any street, alley or sidewalk without permission of the building inspector.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-5; Code 2002, § 50-4)
Sec. 50-20. - Warning signals at obstructions.
Any person who shall cause any obstruction to be placed in any city street, alley or sidewalk shall display at such obstruction a sufficient danger signal or light to warn the traveling public of such obstruction and enable them to avoid injury from the obstruction.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-6; Code 2002, § 50-5)
Sec. 50-21. - Damages to streets and sidewalks.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drag or run or cause to be dragged or run any harrow or other implement, engine, machine or tool upon any asphalt, bithulitic, warrenite or other type of permanently paved city street or sidewalk which shall be liable in any way to injure or cut the surface thereof. It shall also be unlawful to injure any dirt street in the same manner.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-8; Code 2002, § 50-6)
Sec. 50-22. - Use of gravel near streets and sidewalks.
(a)
No person conducting a business adjacent to a highway or sidewalk shall maintain a yard or lot pavement or covering of stones, pebbles or like substances in such manner that the stones, pebbles or other substances are movable upon being walked upon or driven over by vehicles going to and from the place of business and to and from the street or sidewalk, unless so placed and maintained that the stones, pebbles or substances will not get into or upon the adjacent sidewalk or street.
(b)
Whenever a condition such as is mentioned in subsection (a) of this section is found to exist, either the owner or his agent in charge shall be notified. If the condition is not corrected within the time directed by the city manager, it shall be sufficient cause for revoking the permit and/or license under which the business is conducted, after notice and hearing before the mayor and city council.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-9; Code 2002, § 50-7)
Sec. 50-23. - Hauling refuse; tracking mud.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to haul or cause to be hauled over the city streets any dirt, shingles, laths or trash in a wagon or other vehicle, unless the wagon or vehicle is constructed to prevent and does prevent the spilling of dirt, shingles, laths or trash upon the streets.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a truck or other vehicle under his control to track mud, in appreciable quantity, on the city streets or sidewalks.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-10; Code 2002, § 50-8)
Secs. 50-24—50-34. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - TELEPHONE COMPANIES

Sec. 50-35. - Due compensation for companies with end user retail customers within the city.
(a)
The city hereby requires due compensation of three percent of actual recurring local service revenues, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 46-5-1(b)(8) and (9); provided, however, that any company which pays in excess of three percent of actual recurring local service revenues pursuant to an existing franchise agreement shall continue to pay in accordance with the agreement until the expiration of the franchise agreement or December 31, 2012, whichever occurs first, and any company which pays in excess of three percent of actual recurring local service revenues in accordance with an occupational license tax arrangement shall continue to pay in accordance with such payment schedule until December 31, 2012.
(b)
Regarding any telephone company that does not have retail, end user customers located within the city's municipal boundaries, the payment by such company to a municipal authority in accordance with the rates set by regulations promulgated by the department of transportation for the use of its rights of way shall be considered the payment of due compensation.
(Ord. of 2008(2))
Sec. 50-36. - Authorized designee.
The city manager shall, on behalf of the city, exercise day-to-day administrative duties necessary to fulfill the regulatory authority of the city under O.C.G.A. § 46-5-1 et seq. and shall perform the following duties:
(1)
Review application information submitted by a telephone company to the city and, if an application is incomplete, notify the telegraph or telephone company within 15 business days of the receipt of such application, identifying in such notice all application deficiencies.
(2)
Report the receipt of a completed application to the council within 60 calendar days of the receipt of such completed application.
(3)
Review payments of due compensation submitted by the company to ensure compliance with the provisions of the amended law and this division.
(4)
Provide a coordination function between a telephone company and all city departments on any matter relating to the amended law and this division.
(5)
Arrange and evaluate, no more than once a year, a comprehensive review of the records of a company which is reasonably related to the calculation and payment of due compensation.
(6)
Provide to all telegraph and telephone companies located in its rights-of-way written notice of annexation and changes in municipal corporate boundaries.
(Ord. of 2008(2))
Secs. 50-37—50-60. - Reserved.
