ARTICLE VI. - DEFENSE AND INDEMNIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES

Sec. 2-141. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicated a different meaning:
Claim includes all claims presented against an employee prior to institution of a proceeding.
Employee means the members of the governing authority of the county, employees of the county, elected or appointed county officers and their appointees and employees, including appointed members of the various past, present and future commissions, councils, authorities, and boards, which have been created or will be created by the governing authority of this county.
Proceeding includes any matter of a civil nature in or before any court or agency of this state or any other state or of the United States.
(Ord. of 2-24-98)
Sec. 2-142. - Construction.
Nothing contained in this article shall be deemed to constitute any waiver, by the county or by any employee, of the governmental immunity afforded it under the constitution and laws of the state. The county and its employees specifically reserve the right to assert their immunity prior to the entry of judgment in any claim or proceeding, and section 2-145 shall not be applicable to require the county or any employee to pay any sums based on claims from which the county and its employees are immune. Nothing contained in this article shall be interpreted in any way to reduce or eliminate the rights of any employee of the county against any other party.
(Ord. of 2-24-98)
Sec. 2-143. - Defense of employees.
Whenever any claim is made or proceeding is brought against an employee, either against the employee asserting personal liability for damages arising out of the performance of duties or in any way connected therewith, whether based on negligence, violation of contract rights or violation of civil, constitutional, common law or other statutory rights, whether federal, state or local, the county shall, upon written request, provide for the employee's defense unless otherwise limited by the terms of this article. The provisions of this article shall not apply unless the employee provides notice in writing of any claim or proceeding to the chief executive within 30 days after the employee has notice of a claim and/or within five days after the employee has been served with process in a proceeding initiated against the employee.
(Ord. of 2-24-98)
Sec. 2-144. - Grounds for refusal of defense.
(a)
The county may refuse to provide for the defense of a claim or proceeding brought against any employee if it determines that any of the following exists:
(b)
The act or omission did not arise out of and in the course of employment by the county.
(1)
The employee acted or failed to act because of actual or intentional misconduct, fraud, corruption, malice or in bad faith.
(2)
The proceeding is a criminal prosecution.
(3)
Provisions of a defense against the claim or proceeding would not be in the best interest of the county.
(4)
The employee acts or fails to act as a result of, or at a time when, the employee's own self-indulgence substantially impaired the employee's judgment, (as, for example, an officer or employee who causes damage or injury while intoxicated or under the influence of drugs while on the job).
(5)
The employee acts or fails to act, except in emergencies or the existence of extenuating circumstances, directly contrary to advice of the county attorney or safety personnel.
(6)
The employee acts or fails to act in such manner as to constitute a criminal act (as, for example, misappropriation of property or funds).
(7)
The employee fails to cooperate in the defense of the claim or proceeding.
(8)
The employee acted or failed to act in willful disregard of county policy or specific instructions of the employee's supervisor.
(c)
Nothing in this article shall be construed to prohibit the county from providing a defense against a claim or proceeding where there is a conflict of interest between one (1) employee or group of employees of the county as compared with another employee or group of employees.
(d)
The determinations required by subsection (a) of this section shall be made by the chairman of the board of commissioners upon the advice of the county attorney and/or department heads, and upon any internal investigation of the claim or proceeding. The county, acting through the chairman of the board of commissioners, may refuse, at any time prior to or after the approval or assumption of the defense, to provide for the defense of an employee if it is determined that any of the grounds for refusal set forth in this section exist.
(e)
Upon approval of the defense of a claim or proceeding against an employee, the chairman of the board of commissioners shall refer the matter to the county attorney for disposition. However, if two or more employees or groups of employees are involved, and the interest of one employee or group of employees conflicts with the interest of another employee or group of employees, the governing authority shall specify which employee or group of employees shall be represented by the county attorney and may authorize other employees or groups of employees to employ counsel at the expense of the county; provided, however, that the selection and compensation of such other counsel shall be subject to the prior approval of the board.
(Ord. of 2-24-98)
Sec. 2-145. - Payment of judgments, settlement of claims.
(a)
Where defense of a claim or proceeding against an employee is provided by this article, all final judgments awarded in courts of competent jurisdiction against the employee in proceedings to which this article applies or any amount payable under any settlement of such proceeding or of claims in accordance with this article shall be paid by the county as hereinafter provided. All compromises of claims or proceedings governed by this article shall be approved by the chairman of the board of commissioners upon recommendation of the comptroller and the board of commissioners.
(b)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, payment of judgments and claims shall be limited as follows:
(1)
No sum will be paid where the employee's liability is based on a discretionary act, and the county and the employee reserve the right to assert all governmental and sovereign immunity in defense of such claims. Payment of judgments and claims pursuant to this section shall be made only where liability is based upon a ministerial act of the employee. It is the intent of this section to provide for the payment of claims or judgments where the defense of sovereign or governmental immunity may not be asserted initially as a defense to the claim or proceeding.
(2)
No sum will be paid on behalf of any employee in excess of $50,000.00, for any claim(s) or proceeding(s) arising from incident(s) or alleged wrongful acts. In the case of more than one employee being defended pursuant to this article for any claim(s) or proceeding(s) arising from the same, related and/or connected wrongful acts, no sum will be paid in excess of $200,000.00 per occurrence.
(3)
No sum will be paid under the provisions of this article for punitive or exemplary damages.
(4)
No sum shall be paid under the provisions of this article unless the claimant unconditionally releases the employee and the county from any and all claims, causes of action, whether arising out of the common law, state or federal statutes, or state or federal constitutional violations, or judgments arising out of the subject claim or proceeding. Further, no sum shall be paid under the provisions of this article if any attempt to recover or recovery of any sum whatsoever from the employees is made by the claimant or any party as a result of the claim or proceeding.
(5)
There is excluded further from the operation of this article any claim or proceeding as to the extent that insurance is provided by the county. There is further excluded from the operation of this article any claim or proceeding as to which the county has, by resolution or otherwise, provided for the payment and defense of claims or proceedings as to the extent that insurance is provided by the county arising from the ownership, use or maintenance of county motor vehicles.
(Ord. of 2-24-98)
Secs. 2-146—2-150. - Reserved.
