PART II - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1977 Ga. Laws, page 1596 which amended Article VII, Section I, Paragraph IV of the state constitution to provide for a homestead exemption for residents of the city for not more than $2,000.00 from city ad valorem taxes. The constitutional amendment was continued in force and effect by 1987 Ga. Laws, page 5154. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and citations to state statutes has been used. Catchlines have been added by the editor. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
In the general election held on November 7, 1978, the subject constitutional amendment was approved by a majority of the registered voters in the city. The following resolution was adopted by the city council on November 27, 1978, for the administration of this exemption:
"There is hereby granted an exemption from all city ad valorem taxes the sum of $2,000.00 on the residence actually occupied by the owner. The homestead exemption application and determination as fixed by the Tax Assessor's Office of Carroll County shall be determinative of the eligibility of said owner for this exemption."
Code reference—Taxation, ch. 86.

Sec. 1. - Authorization.
Any other provisions of this Constitution to the contrary notwithstanding, the governing authority of the City of Carrollton is hereby authorized to grant an exemption from all city ad valorem taxes in an amount to be fixed by the governing authority at not more than $2,000.00 on a homestead owned and occupied by a resident of the city as a residence and homestead, and only so long as actually occupied by the owner primarily as such. The value of the residence in excess of the amount so exempted shall remain subject to taxation. Any such resident shall not receive the benefits of such homestead exemption unless he or his agent provides the governing authority of the city, or a person designated by the governing authority, with an affidavit stating that he is a resident and that such property is his homestead and residence and containing such additional information as will enable the governing authority to make a determination as to whether such person is entitled to such exemption. The governing authority shall provide the necessary forms for such purpose. After any such person has filed the proper affidavit and has been allowed the exemption provided herein, it shall not be necessary that he make application and file said affidavit thereafter for any subsequent year, and the said exemption shall continue to be allowed to such person. It shall be the duty of such person to notify the governing authority in the event he becomes ineligible for any reason for the exemption provided in this paragraph. The homestead exemption provided for herein shall not be granted nor the amount fixed within the limits prescribed herein for any year until the governing authority of the city provides by ordinance for the granting of such exemption and the amount thereof. The governing authority of the city may provide by ordinance for the proper administration of this exemption.
ARTICLE II. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION FOR THE AGED[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1992 Ga. Laws, page 5906 which grants an ad valorem tax exemption for residents 65 years of age or older in the amount of $15,000.00 for educational purposes. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and citations to state statutes has been used. Catchlines have been added by the editor. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Taxation, ch. 86.

Sec. 1. - Definitions.
For purposes of this Act, the term:
(1)
"Ad valorem taxes for educational purposes" means all ad valorem taxes for educational purposes levied by, for, or on behalf of the City of Carrollton, including but not limited to taxes to retire school bond indebtedness.
(2)
"Homestead" means homestead as defined and qualified in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40.
(3)
"Income" means net income from all sources but shall not include income received as retirement, survivor, or disability benefits under the federal Social Security Act or under any other public or private retirement, disability, or pension system except such income which is in excess of the maximum amount authorized to be paid to an individual and that person's spouse under the federal Social Security Act.
Sec. 2. - Authorized, limitation.
Each resident of the City of Carrollton who is 65 years of age or older is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all City of Carrollton ad valorem taxes for educational purposes in the amount of $15,000.00 of the assessed value of that homestead, if that person's income, together with the income of the spouse of such person who resides within such homestead, does not exceed $18,000.00 for the immediately preceding taxable year.
Sec. 3. - Application forms.
The tax commissioner of Carroll County or the designee thereof shall provide application forms for the exemption granted by this Act and shall require such information as may be necessary to determine the eligibility of the owner for the exemption.
Sec. 4. - Renewal; notification of ineligibility.
The exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1. The exemption shall be automatically renewed from year to year as long as the owner occupies the residence as a homestead. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under this Act to notify the tax commissioner of Carroll County or the designee thereof in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption.
Sec. 5. - State taxes.
The exemptions granted by this Act shall not apply to or affect any state taxes.
Sec. 6. - Other exemptions.
The exemptions granted by this Act shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any other homestead exemption from City of Carrollton ad valorem taxes for educational purposes.
Sec. 7. - Commencement date.
The exemptions granted by this Act shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1992.
ARTICLE III. - HOSPITAL AUTHORITY VACANCIES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1974 Ga. Laws, page 2318 which provides for the method of filling vacancies in the membership of the Carroll City-County Hospital Authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and citations to state statutes has been used. Catchlines have been added by the editor. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Hospital authority, § 2-166 et seq.

Sec. 1. - Filling.
Vacancies occurring in the membership of the Carroll City-County Hospital Authority for any cause, including the expiration of terms of office, shall be filled by the Board selecting a successor for the position of membership in which the vacancy occurs from a list of three persons which shall be submitted to the Board by the governing authorities of the City of Carrollton and Carroll County.
ARTICLE IV. - REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1981 Ga. Laws, page 4535 which created and established the Carrollton Redevelopment Authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and citations to state statutes has been used. Catchlines have been added by the editor. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Authorities, boards and commissions, § 2-156 et seq.

Sec. 1. - Creation of authority.
There is hereby created a public body, corporate and politic, in the County of Carroll to be known as the "Carrollton Redevelopment Authority." Said authority hereinafter shall be referred to as the "authority"; and said authority shall have the powers, rights, duties, and obligations set forth herein and as otherwise provided by law.
Sec. 2. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
(1)
"Advisory committee" shall mean the committee established in Section 7 of this Act as an advisory committee to the authority in matters relating to the revitalization and redevelopment of the Carrollton downtown area.
(2)
"Authority" shall mean the Carrollton Redevelopment Authority created by this Act.
(3)
"City" shall mean the City of Carrollton, Georgia.
(4)
"County" shall mean Carroll County, Georgia.
(5)
"Member" shall mean a member of the authority established by this Act.
(6)
"Project" shall mean any undertaking of the authority in connection with the redevelopment or revitalization of urban, central city, or downtown areas within the City of Carrollton.
(7)
"Project areas" shall mean those urban, central city, or downtown areas within the City of Carrollton selected by the authority for redevelopment, revitalization, or improvement pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Act.
Sec. 3. - Composition and organization of authority.
(a)
The authority shall consist of nine members to be appointed by the mayor and city council of the City of Carrollton, Georgia. The members of said authority shall be residents of Carroll County.
(b)
Vacancies in the membership of the authority shall be filled by the mayor and city council of the City of Carrollton, Georgia; provided, however, that a member of the authority whose term has expired shall continue to serve until his successor has been duly appointed and, in the event of a vacancy for any reason other than the expiration of the term, the remaining members of the authority shall continue to be vested with all of the powers, rights, duties, and obligations set forth herein or otherwise provided by law.
(c)
After the initial appointments for the initial terms set forth in this Act, the appointment of a member shall be for a three-year term beginning January 1 of the year of his appointment. Initially, three members shall be appointed for a term ending December 31, 1981; three members shall be appointed for a term ending December 31, 1982; and three members shall be appointed for a term ending December 31, 1983. Any appointment to fill a vacancy shall be for the remainder of the term of the member vacating.
(d)
Each member of the authority shall have attained the age of 21 years and shall have been a resident of the county for at least one year prior to his appointment. Any officer or employee of the county or city shall be eligible for appointment to the authority. If at any time during his term a member shall cease to be a resident of the county, he shall cease to be a member of the authority. No person may serve more than two consecutive full terms as a member of the authority. No action taken by the authority shall be void by reason of the disqualification of a member until the disqualification shall be brought to the attention of the other members of the authority in writing and one month has expired since the receipt of said notice and the action sought to be void was taken after said one-month period.
(e)
The members of the authority shall not be entitled to compensation, pension, or other retirement benefits on account of service on the authority but shall be entitled to receive traveling expenses and other actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
(f)
The authority shall elect a chairman, a vice chairman, and a secretary-treasurer, each of whom shall serve for one year or until his successor is chosen. The authority shall adopt and promulgate rules governing its procedures and shall hold regular meetings not less than once each quarter. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the chairman or any three members of the authority. A majority of the membership shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of meeting and transacting business. Each member of the authority shall have one vote.
(g)
Upon the effective date of this Act, the members of the authority shall organize and enter upon the performance of their duties.
Sec. 4. - Purposes of authority.
It is hereby determined, declared, and established that the creation of the authority and the implementation of the corporate purposes set forth in this Act are in all respects for the benefit of the people of this state and that the authority is a public corporation; and it is further declared that the revitalization and redevelopment of the urban, central city, and downtown areas of the City of Carrollton (project areas) are proper public purposes and this law is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare the public facilities of said areas, including the construction of streets, roadways, parks, malls, transportation systems, vehicular parking facilities, and any and all other necessary and desirable appurtenances to the revitalization and modernization of said project areas; and it is further declared that the expenditure of public funds for such purposes by said authority is and shall be in the public interest.
It is further found, determined, and declared that all property of said authority is hereby declared and shall in all respects be considered to be public property; and title to such property shall be held by the authority only for the benefit of the public; and the use of such property pursuant to the terms of this Act shall be and is hereby declared to be for public and governmental purposes, that is, for the promotion of the general public welfare in matters of cultural development, education, pleasure, convenience, and recreation of the public at large, in an effort to better the general condition of society, which promotion is hereby declared to be a public beneficence for the good of humanity and for the general improvement and happiness of society. All the property, income, obligations, and interest on the obligations of the authority and the transfer thereof shall be and hereby are declared to be nontaxable for any and all purposes.
Sec. 5. - Powers of the authority.
The authority shall have all of the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions set forth in this Act, including, but not limited to, the power:
(a)
To sue and be sued.
(b)
To adopt and amend a corporate seal.
(c)
To make and execute contracts and other instruments necessary to exercise the power of the authority. Such contracts may be made with the city, the county, the State of Georgia, or the United States of America, or may be made with one or more municipal corporations, or may be made with the county and a single municipal corporation or multiple municipal corporations. The county and all such municipalities are hereby authorized to enter into contracts with the authority. The authority may also contract with private legal entities or persons.
(d)
To receive and administer gifts, grants, and devises of any property and to administer trusts.
(e)
To acquire by purchase, gift, or construction any real or personal property desired to be acquired as a part of any project or for the purpose of improving, extending, adding to, reconstructing, renovating, or remodeling any project or part thereof already acquired, or for the purpose of demolition to make room for such project or any part thereof.
(f)
To sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign, pledge, mortgage, or dispose of, or grant options for any such purpose, any real or personal property or interest therein.
(g)
To mortgage, convey, pledge, or assign any property, revenues, income, tolls, charges, or fees owned or received by the authority.
(h)
To issue revenue obligations for the purpose of providing funds for carrying out the purpose of the authority.
(i)
To appoint officers and retain agents, engineers, attorneys, fiscal agents, accountants, architects, and employees and to provide their compensation and duties.
(j)
To acquire property through the exercise of the right of eminent domain for public purposes and to acquire by purchase, gift, or lease any property owned by the city or county which has been acquired through the exercise of the right of eminent domain by the city or county; provided, however, that said authority shall acquire such properties through the exercise of such power of eminent domain only in a manner prescribed by law for the exercise of such power by counties and municipalities in the state and only upon payment of just and fair compensation as required by the Constitution and laws of this state; provided, further, that the authority shall not acquire property through the exercise of the right of eminent domain unless the authority is granted prior written approval for such actions by the governing authorities of the city for property located in the city, or the county for property located in the county but not in the city, or by the Georgia Public Service Commission for property owned by a public utility.
(k)
To construct, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, and equip projects located on land owned or leased by the authority, and to pay all or part of the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms, or corporations or any other contribution, all of which the authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
(l)
To issue revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or part of the cost of any project, including the cost of extending, adding to, or improving such project, or for the purpose of refunding any such bonds of the authority theretofore issued. Such revenue bonds shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the "Revenue Bond Law," approved March 31, 1937 (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761), as heretofore or hereafter amended. Such revenue bonds or obligations shall be authorized by resolution of the authority, which may be adopted at a regular or special meeting by a majority vote of the members of said authority. The authority, in determining the cost of any undertaking for which revenue bonds or obligations are to be issued, may include all costs relative to the issuance thereof and, without intending to limit such costs, may include architectural, engineering, inspection, fiscal agents, and legal expenses estimated to accrue from the date of any such bonds through the period of construction and for six months after such construction; and such bonds shall bear such date or dates, mature at such time or times, not exceeding 30 years from their respective dates, bear interest at such rate or rates and may be in such denominations and may carry such registration privileges and be subject to redemption and may contain such terms, covenants, assignments, and conditions as the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds may provide. All bonds and interest thereon so issued by said authority are hereby declared to be tax exempt for any and all purposes. As security for the payment of any revenue bonds so authorized, any property, real or personal, of an authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated, or otherwise encumbered. Any such authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture containing any provisions not in conflict with law for the security of such bonds, which trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or upon default in the performance of any term or condition contained in such agreement or indenture. The State of Georgia, in behalf of the state, and each county, municipal corporation, political subdivision, and taxing district therein hereby waives any right it or such county, municipal corporation, political subdivision, or taxing district may have to prevent the forced sale or foreclosure of any property of the authority so mortgaged or encumbered and any such mortgage or encumbrance may be foreclosed in accordance with law and the terms thereof.
(m)
To make or cause to be made studies and analyses of economic changes taking place in the downtown areas of Carrollton and Carroll County and of the impact of metropolitan growth upon those areas.
(n)
To prepare a plan or plans for the development and redevelopment of such downtown areas (such plan or plans shall be coordinated with governmental planning boards and agencies but the authority shall have the ultimate responsibility for preparation of such plan or plans).
(o)
To implement any general plan of development in the urban, central, or downtown areas which have been approved by the county and the municipality in which said development is located by:
(1)
Coordinating development and redevelopment by public and private enterprise;
(2)
Encouraging private development and redevelopment in a manner consistent with the plan;
(3)
From time to time, proposing such revisions in the plan as appear to the authority to be appropriate and in the best interest of the city, consistent with the purposes of this Act;
(4)
Constructing, acquiring, repairing, and operating any public development or project covered by the plan or coordinating any of the foregoing among other governmental agencies;
(5)
In coordination with said planning boards or agencies, develop long-range plans designed to halt the deterioration of property values in the urban, central city, and downtown areas and encourage property owners to implement the plans to the fullest extent possible;
(6)
To acquire in the best interest of the public, for public purposes only, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, and to own, convey, and otherwise dispose of and to lease as lessor and lessee any land and any other property, real and personal, and any rights and interests therein which it may determine to be reasonably necessary in furtherance of its other powers under this Act, and to grant and acquire licenses, easements, and options with respect thereto;
(7)
To improve land; to construct, reconstruct, equip, improve, maintain, and repair parking facilities, parks, plazas, malls, walkways, and other public facilities, and any necessary or desirable appurtenances thereto within project areas;
(8)
To fix, charge, and collect fees, rents, and charges for the use of any project, any part thereof, and any facilities furnished thereby, and of any property under its control, and to pledge such revenue to the payment of revenue bonds issued by it.
(p)
To have and exercise any and all of the usual powers of private and public corporations except such as are inconsistent with this Act, including the power to adopt and amend bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the authority.
(q)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested.
(r)
To designate officers to sign and act for the authority generally or in any specific matter.
(s)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish or to complement the purpose and powers of the authority as herein stated.
Sec. 6. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this Act shall be deemed to be supplemental and in addition to powers conferred by other laws.
Sec. 7. - Advisory committee.
The mayor and city council of Carrollton by resolution may establish an advisory committee to the authority. Said committee shall be composed of from ten to 20 citizens of Carroll County and said committee shall be charged with the responsibility to make recommendations to the authority in connection with the redevelopment of project areas. It shall be the responsibility of the city to advise the authority of the composition of the committee and to notify the authority of changes in membership from time to time. The terms of members of the committee shall be in the discretion of the mayor and city council.
Sec. 8. - Public funds.
The City of Carrollton and the County of Carroll, either and both, are authorized and permitted to provide public funds to the authority for the purposes of the authority set forth in this Act; provided, however, that the debts of the authority shall not constitute debts of the state nor of any city, town, municipality, or county thereof.
Sec. 9. - Liberal construction of Act.
This Act, being for the welfare of the state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
ARTICLE V. - PAYROLL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1963 Ga. Laws, page 3242 which established the Carrollton Payroll Development Authority pursuant to an amendment to the state constitution as set forth in 1962 Ga. Laws, page 1135. The constitutional amendment was continued in force and effect pursuant to 1985 Ga. Laws, page 3987. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and citations to state statutes has been used. Catchlines have been added by the editor. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Authorities, boards and commissions, § 2-156 et seq.; finance, § 2-221 et seq.

Sec. 1. - Short title.
This Act may be cited as the Carrollton Payroll Development Authority.
Sec. 2. - Created, membership, officers, compensation.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Carrollton Payroll Development Authority, which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and by that name, style, and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The Authority shall consist of five (5) members who shall be the Mayor of the City of Carrollton, the President of the Carrollton Chamber of Commerce or its successor, and three (3) other appointed members who shall be residents of Carroll County within or without the corporate limits of the City of Carrollton. In making the nominations of members of the Authority not more than one (1) member shall be nominated from any one family, partnership, or other business organization. The members shall be selected in the following manner: Immediately after the effective date of this Act the Directors of the Carrollton Chamber of Commerce or its successor shall select and nominate persons for appointment and submit at least six (6) names to the City Council. From such list of nominees the Council of the City of Carrollton shall appoint three (3) members of the Authority. Appointments, except in case of vacancy, shall be for terms of three (3) years, except that the terms of the first three (3) members appointed may be staggered. In the event a vacancy occurs, the city shall fill such vacancy by appointment for the unexpired term. In making any appointment for a vacancy or after the expiration of a term, the city shall make appointments from not less than two (2) nominations for each member to be appointed, which nominations are to be made by the Carrollton Chamber of Commerce or its successor. The Authority shall elect a Chairman and a Treasurer. The Executive Director or other similarly designated paid executive officers of the Carrollton Chamber of Commerce shall serve as Secretary of the Authority without compensation. The members of the Authority shall be entitled to no compensation.
Sec. 3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(a)
The word "Authority" shall mean the "Carrollton Payroll Development Authority" created by this Act and by and under Article V, Section IX, of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition of lands, properties and improvements for development, expansion and promotion of jobs and payrolls in industry, commerce, agriculture, and natural resources; the construction of buildings and plants or the acquisition of equipment for the purpose of selling, leasing or renting such structures and/or equipment to private persons, firms or corporations.
(c)
The term "cost of project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, easements, rights and franchises acquired, the cost of machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural and legal expenses, and plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and other such expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project and placing the same in operation; provided, however, that in no event shall entertainment or promotional expense be considered a part of the cost of any project.
Editor's note— The section of the 1945 Constitution cited above was not carried forward into later state constitutions.
Sec. 4. - Contracts.
The County of Carroll and the City of Carrollton are expressly authorized to enter into contracts with the Authority as a public corporation.
Sec. 5. - Quorum, number of votes required for project approval.
Any three (3) members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the ordinary business of the Authority; however, any action with respect to any project of the Authority must be approved by not less than three (3) affirmative votes.
Sec. 6. - Powers, duties.
The Authority shall have powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure.
(b)
To acquire, hold, and dispose of personal property, including the stock of other corporations, for its corporate purposes.
(c)
To enter into contracts for periods of time, not in excess of fifty (50) years.
(d)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions, and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or liens or easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of same or to dispose of same in any manner the Authority deems to its best advantage. If the Authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the title to which shall then be in the County of Carroll or the City of Carrollton, the governing authorities of Carroll County or the City of Carrollton are authorized in their discretion to convey title to such lands, including any improvements thereon, to the Authority.
(e)
To appoint and select officers, agents, and employees, including engineers, architects, builders, and attorneys, and to fix their compensation.
(f)
To make contracts, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases and rental and sales of projects, or contracts with respect to the use of projects, which it erects or acquires.
(g)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, sell, equip, expand, add to, operate and manage projects and pay the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue-anticipation certificates or bonds or any other income of the Authority, or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms, or corporations, all of which the Authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
(h)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds and such other instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing.
(i)
To exercise any powers granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public or private corporations, performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia.
(j)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this Act.
(k)
To adopt, alter or repeal its own bylaws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the power granted to it may be enjoyed, as the Authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
(l)
To issue revenue-anticipation certificates for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project of the Authority. Such revenue-anticipation certificates shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Act of the General Assembly of 1937, (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761), and as subsequently amended, providing for the issuance of revenue-anticipation certificates.
Sec. 7. - Acquisition of property.
The Authority is hereby specifically authorized to purchase or otherwise acquire land and to improve and develop same so as to make said land more desirable for industrial purposes. Such land acquisition and development may be undertaken by the Authority at any time whether or not there is at such time a prospective industry considering the purchase or lease of an industrial site in Carroll County. Such land and improvements may be held by the Authority for any length of time it seems desirable, but any sale, lease or other disposition of same when made, shall be subject to the provisions of Section 9 hereof.
Sec. 8. - Use of moneys derived from Authority.
No moneys derived from the Authority from any source other than gifts and contributions from private individuals, firms or corporations shall at any time be used for entertainment or other promotional expenses.
Sec. 9. - Projects to be self-liquidating.
All projects of the Authority shall be on a self-liquidating basis, and the Authority shall not make gifts, directly or indirectly to any person, firm, or corporation.
Sec. 10. - Reversion of property.
Should said Authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the Authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to the City of Carrollton subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
Sec. 11. - Exemptions from state and local taxation.
All debentures, notes, bonds, and revenue-anticipation certificates issued by the Authority shall be exempt from State and local taxation. All lands and improvements and personal property, the title to which is vested in the Authority, shall be exempted from State and local taxation, except that the Authority shall have the power in its discretion to make an annual assessment against said property in lieu of State, county and city ad valorem taxes, such assessment to be based on the value of said property; provided, however, that such assessment shall in no instance exceed the amount of State, county and city ad valorem taxes, respectively, which would be due were such exemption not in effect. This assessment in lieu of taxes shall be paid to the political entity which would ordinarily receive the ad valorem taxes, were such exemption not in effect.
Sec. 12. - Debts.
The Authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create a debt as against the State of Georgia, the County of Carroll, or the City of Carrollton.
Sec. 13. - Annual audit.
The books and records of the Authority shall be audited at least annually, at the expense of the Authority, by a competent auditor. The Authority shall furnish copies of said audit to the City of Carrollton, and shall publish same one time in all the newspapers printed in Carroll County.
Sec. 14. - Intent of Act.
This Act being for the purpose of developing and promoting the public good and the welfare of the County of Carroll and the City of Carrollton and their inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE - GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of the Georgia Laws cited in the Related Laws.
EXPAND
Year Page Section this
Related Laws
1963 3242 Art. V
1974 2318 Art. III
1977 1596 Art. I
1981 4535 Art. IV
1992 5906 Art. II
