Chapter 62 - NATURAL RESOURCES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 38; health and sanitation, ch. 50; solid waste, ch. 82.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 62-1—62-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WATERSHED PROTECTION DISTRICTS

Sec. 62-26. - Provisions saved from repeal.
The ordinances providing for the establishment of the Sharpe Creek watershed protection district and the Snake Creek watershed protection district are not repealed and shall continue in full force and effect pending a revision of the subject matter by the county.
Secs. 62-27—62-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PHOSPHATE-FREE DETERGENTS

Sec. 62-46. - Declaration of policy.
It is hereby declared to be the public policy of the county to encourage the use of clean, phosphate-free household laundry detergents and to prohibit the sale of household laundry detergents which contain more than 0.5 percent phosphorous by weight. The board of commissioners finds that such use and sale will be a cost-effective way to reduce the amount of phosphorous in wastewater discharge so as to protect the state's rivers and lakes downstream and promote health, safety and welfare, prevent injury to human health, plant and animal life and property. It is vital to the health, well-being and welfare of present and future inhabitants of the county that these sources be protected against contamination and pollution.
(Ord. of 8-10-89, § 1)
Sec. 62-47. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Household laundry detergent means a laundering cleaning compound in liquid, bar, spray, tablet, flake, powder, or other form used for domestic clothes cleaning purposes. The term "household laundry detergent" shall not mean:
(1)
A dishwashing compound, household cleaner, metal cleaner, degreasing compound, commercial cleaner, industrial cleaner, or other substance that is intended to be used for nonlaundry cleaning purposes;
(2)
A detergent used in dairy, beverage, or food processing cleaning equipment;
(3)
A phosphorous acid product, including a sanitizer, brightener, acid cleaner, or metal conditioner;
(4)
A detergent used in hospitals, veterinary hospitals or clinics, or health care facilities or in agricultural production;
(5)
A detergent used by industry for metal cleaning or conditioning;
(6)
A detergent manufactured, stored, or distributed for use or sale outside of the state;
(7)
A detergent used in any laboratory, including a biological laboratory, research facility, chemical laboratory, and engineering laboratory; or
(8)
A detergent used in a commercial laundry that provides laundry services for hospital, health care facility, or veterinary hospital.
Phosphorous means elemental phosphorous.
(Ord. of 8-10-89, § 2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 62-48. - Retail sales.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at the retail level a household laundry detergent which contains greater than 0.5 percent phosphorous by weight and is intended to be used for domestic clothes cleaning purposes.
(Ord. of 8-10-89, § 3)
Sec. 62-49. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be subject to the provisions of section 1-13. Each sales transaction shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 8-10-89, § 4)
Sec. 62-50. - Additional action for violation of article.
In addition to the penalty provided in section 62-49, the county may maintain an action or proceeding in any court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with or restrain any violation of this article.
(Ord. of 8-10-89, § 5)
