ARTICLE VI. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTIONS[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 2001 Ga. Laws, page 4285 which provides for homestead exemptions from ad valorem taxes as more particularly described in the act. This replaces former Art. VI, §§ 1—6, which pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from 1992 Ga. Laws, page 6514; and 1998 Ga. Laws, page 3884. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code cross reference—Taxation, ch. 90.

Section 1. - Exemptions.
(a)
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Ad valorem taxes for county purposes" means all ad valorem taxes for county purposes levied by, for, or on behalf of Carroll County, including, but not limited to any ad valorem taxes for special district purposes, but not including taxes levied in fire prevention districts for fire prevention purposes and taxes to pay interest on and to retire county bonded indebtedness.
(2)
"Base year" means the taxable year immediately preceding the taxable year in which the exemption under this Act is first granted to the most recent owner of such homestead.
(3)
"Homestead" means homestead as defined and qualified in Code Section 48-5-40 of the O.C.G.A., with the additional qualification that it shall include only the primary residence.
(b)
Each resident of Carroll County is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all Carroll County ad valorem taxes for county purposes in an amount equal to the amount of the assessed value of that homestead that exceeds the assessed value of that homestead for the taxable year immediately preceding the taxable year in which this exemption is first granted to such resident. Such exemption shall be extended to the unremarried surviving spouse at the time of the person's death so long as such unremarried surviving spouse continues to occupy the home as a residence and homestead. If any real property is removed from the homestead, the assessment in the base year shall be adjusted to reflect such removal and the exemption shall be recalculated accordingly. The value of that property in excess of such exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.
(c)
A person shall not receive the homestead exemption granted by subsection (b) of this section unless the person or person's agent or the person's unremarried surviving spouse files an application with the tax commissioner of Carroll County giving such information relative to receiving such exemption as will enable the tax commissioner to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to such exemption.
(d)
The tax commissioner of Carroll County shall provide application forms for the exemption granted by subsection (b) of this section which shall require such information as may be necessary to determine the initial and continuing eligibility of the owner for the exemption.
(e)
The exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in Code Section 48-5-50.1 of the O.C.G.A. The exemption shall be automatically renewed from year to year as long as the owner occupies the residence as a homestead. After a person has filed the proper application as provided in subsection (c) of this section, it shall not be necessary to make application and file such affidavit thereafter for any year and the exemption shall continue to be allowed to such person. It shall be the duty of any person or the person's unremarried surviving spouse granted the homestead exemption under subsection (b) of this section to notify the tax commissioner of the county or the designee thereof in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption.
(f)
The exemption granted by this Act shall not apply to or affect state ad valorem taxes, county school district ad valorem taxes for educational purposes, or municipal ad valorem taxes for municipal purposes. The homestead exemption granted by subsection (b) of this section shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any other homestead exemption applicable to county ad valorem taxes for county purposes.
(g)
The exemption granted by subsection (b) of this section shall apply to all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2003.
(2001 Ga. Laws, page 4285)
