ARTICLE III. - CIVIL SERVICE SYSTEM[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1979 Ga. Laws, page 4335 which established a civil service system for county employees. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code cross reference—Personnel, ch. 70.

Section 1. - Short title.
This Act may be cited as the "Carroll County Civil Service System Act."
Section 2. - Creation and establishment.
(a)
From and after the passage and approval of this Act, there is hereby authorized to be created and established by the governing authority of Carroll County a civil service system of personnel administration, to be known as the Carroll County Civil Service System. The said governing authority shall be authorized to create such civil service system by appropriate resolution, which resolution shall specify the department, personnel, and offices of the county government governed by such system and the effective date of said system.
(b)
All employees of Carroll County may be placed under said civil service system except: All elected officers, all appointed boards, members of commissions and authorities, county attorney, part-time employees, and others expressly exempt by law.
Section 3. - Composition; membership selection; terms; succession; removal; vacancies; quorum; compensation.
(a)
There shall be a civil service board of Carroll County composed of citizens who are freeholders of Carroll County of known sympathy to the civil service system, who are not employees of Carroll County, who have paid their taxes to date, and who have been residents of Carroll County for two years or more.
(b)
The civil service board shall be composed of five members who shall be denominated as serving in Posts 1 through 5 and shall be selected as follows:
(1)
Members of Posts 1 and 4 shall be selected by majority vote of the elected county officials, namely the clerk of superior court, the tax commissioner, the sheriff, the judge of the probate court, and the commissioner of Carroll County. The commissioner of Carroll County shall appoint the persons who are so elected as members of the civil service board. These members shall for purposes of this Act be known as the `county selected members' of the civil service board.
(2)
Members to serve in Posts 2 and 5 shall be selected by the employees of Carroll County (other than the aforesaid elected officials) who are under the civil service system. Such employees shall by a majority of their number, either by ballot or by petition, select the members to serve in Posts 2 and 5 and shall submit the names of the persons so selected to the commissioner of Carroll County. The commissioner shall appoint the persons whose names are so submitted as members of the civil service board. These members shall for purposes of this Act be known as the `employee selected members' of the civil service board.
(3)
A member to serve in Post 3 shall be selected by majority vote of the other members of the civil service board. The member so selected shall be appointed by the commissioner as a member of the civil service board. This member shall for purposes of this Act be known as the `board selected member' of the civil service board.
(c)
For purposes of facilitating an orderly transition from the former three-member civil service board to the five-member board, the following provisions shall apply:
(1)
Post 1 shall as of July 1, 1986, be filled by the county selected member of the previous three-member board; and this member shall serve for a term of office to expire December 31, 1986.
(2)
Post 2 shall as of July 1, 1986, be filled by the employee selected member of the previous three-member board; and this member shall serve for a term of office to expire December 31, 1987.
(3)
Post 3 shall as of July 1, 1986, be filled by the board selected member of the previous three-member board; and this member shall serve for a term of office to expire December 31, 1988.
(4)
A new member, who shall be a county selected member, shall take office on July 1, 1986, and shall serve for a term of office to expire December 31, 1989.
(5)
A new member, who shall be an employee selected member, shall take office on July 1, 1986, and shall serve for a term of office to expire December 31, 1990.
(d)
Successors to the members provided for in subsection (c) of this section and future successors shall serve for terms of five years. Such members shall be selected during the 90-day period next succeeding the expiration of a term of office in the manner provided in subsection (b) of this section. Each such member shall take office on the first day of January next following his or her selection. All members of the board shall serve until their successors are selected and qualified.
(e)
No member of the civil service board shall have held political office or have been a salaried employee of Carroll County during the three months preceding his appointment.
(f)
No member of the civil service board may be removed from office prior to the expiration of his term except for cause after having been granted a notice and afforded a hearing before the board of commissioners of said county. Prior to said hearing, said member shall be served by registered or certified mail addressed to his residence as shown in the files of said board of commissioners at least ten days before the date set for said hearing with written specifications of the charges against him. The five members shall, at their first meeting after July 1, 1986, and at their first meeting after January 1 of each succeeding year, designate one of their number as chairman and one as vice-chairman.
(g)
Vacancies on the civil service board shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as original appointments, except the employee selected member shall be selected by a majority of only the employees who are covered by the civil service system and who are in the full-time employ of Carroll County when and if such vacancies occur.
(h)
Three members of the board shall constitute a quorum; and the affirmative votes of three members shall be required for the approval of any matter before the board.
(i)
Members of the civil service board shall be paid the sum of $20.00 per diem for time actually devoted to the business of the board, not exceeding 25 days in any calendar year.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 4596)
Section 4. - Duty, function and responsibility; generally.
It shall be the duty, function and responsibility of the civil service board to represent the interest of the public in the improvement of personnel administration and the selection of qualified personnel. All meetings of the civil service board shall be held in offices provided therefor by the governing authority of Carroll County or in a courtroom of the Superior Court of Carroll County. The governing authority of said county is hereby authorized to provide necessary clerical assistance to the board. Said board shall hold regular meetings at least once a month and may hold additional meetings as may be required for the proper discharge of its duties.
Section 5. - Personnel subject to act.
All personnel specified in the resolution adopted by the governing authority of Carroll County creating the Carroll County Civil Service System shall be subject to the full provisions of this Act and included under the jurisdiction of the Carroll County Civil Service Board. A department, for the purposes of this Act, shall mean any department so designated by the governing authority of Carroll County.
Section 6. - Duties and functions.
The duties and functions of the civil service board shall be as follows:
(a)
To hold public hearings regarding proposed rules and regulations and standards of the civil service system and thereafter recommend to the governing authority of Carroll County the adoption of rules and regulations and standards effectuating the civil service system established under this Act. Such rules and regulations shall include provisions for the establishment and maintenance of job classification and compensation plans, the conduct of examinations for appointment under the civil service system, the certification of eligible persons, appointments, promotions, transfers, demotions, separations, tenure, service ratings, reinstatements, appeals, and such additional regulations as may be deemed to be in the best interest of impartial selection of efficient personnel and improvement of public administration. Such rules and regulations shall prohibit political activity by any employee covered by the civil service system or the civil service board. The rules and regulations may provide for the establishment of a register of persons eligible for appointment under the civil service system. Said rules and regulations when proposed by the civil service board as aforesaid and approved and adopted by the governing authority of Carroll County shall have the force of law and be binding upon all departments and offices of the county enumerated in the resolution creating the civil service board.
(b)
To conduct hearings and render decisions on charges preferred against persons employed in the several departments and offices included in said civil service system; to hear and decide appeals by any employee who claims to have been improperly dismissed; and to hear and decide appeals by any employee who claims to have been aggrieved by an adverse decision concerning the terms or conditions of his or her employment, specifically including decisions involving disciplinary actions, promotions, demotions, salary, or job classification disputes; this power including the power to recommend all changes necessary to resolve any and all disputes and meritorious appeals.
(c)
The civil service board shall keep and maintain an accurate record of minutes and shall be furnished clerical assistance by the governing authority to keep and maintain its minutes and records.
(d)
Said board shall be authorized to make recommendations as to amendments, additions to, and changes in said rules and regulations from time to time and when said amendments, changes, or additions are adopted by the governing authority of Carroll County, said amendments shall have the force of law and be binding on all parties affected by said civil service system.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 4596)
Section 7. - Dismissal of employee; appeal; decision of board.
No employee of any department or office of the county which has been brought under the civil service system pursuant to this Act may be dismissed from employment in said department or office except for good cause and in accordance with the rules and regulations of the civil service board, as approved by the governing authority as aforesaid. Any employee who is dismissed shall have the right of appeal pursuant to the terms of the rules and regulations prescribed for appeal by the civil service board. Such appeal shall be heard at the next regular or special meeting of the civil service board after it is filed and must be heard and determined by the board within forty-five (45) days of the date said appeal is filed with the board; provided, however, that such dismissed employee must file his appeal with the board in writing within ten (10) days from the date of his dismissal and provided that this provision shall not apply to persons dismissed from any department due to curtailment in funds, reduction in staff, or abolition of the job held by such employee. The decision of the board shall be binding upon the governing authority of said county as to whether such dismissal was for proper cause.
Section 8. - Costs of system and board borne by county.
All costs for salaries, expenses, and supplies for the establishment and operation of the civil service system and civil service board shall be borne by the county and paid out of county funds as a cost of administration.
