ARTICLE X. - PRIVATE CLUBS

Sec. 6-151. - Definitions.
As used in this article:
Fixed salary means the amount of compensation paid any member, officer, agent, or employee of a bona fide private club as may be fixed for him by its members at a prior annual meeting or by the governing body out of the general revenue of the club and shall not include a commission on any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages. For the purpose of this definition, tips or gratuities which are added to the bills under club regulation shall not be considered as profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
Private club means any nonprofit association organized under the laws of this state which:
(1)
Has been in existence at least one year prior to the filing of its application for a license to be issued pursuant to this article;
(2)
Has at least 75 regular dues paying members;
(3)
Owns, hires or leases a building or space within a building for the reasonable use of its members with:
a.
A suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment; and
b.
A sufficient number of employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guests; and
c.
Has no member, officer, agent or employee directly or indirectly receiving in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages beyond a fixed salary.
(Ord. of 8-6-13, § 1)
Sec. 6-152. - Regulation or sale of alcoholic beverages.
A private club may seek a license for retail sales of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises in accord with this chapter. Licensed private clubs may sell and dispense alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises upon compliance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the county governing the sale of such beverages and upon payment of such license fees and taxes as may be required by the existing ordinances, rules and regulations of the county.
(Ord. of 8-6-13, § 1)
Sec. 6-153. - Certain organization exempt from food establishment requirements.
Veteran's organizations, fraternal organizations, and other nonprofit organizations currently having tax exempt status under either the United States Internal Revenue Code or the Georgia Income Tax Law shall not be required to operate a food establishment serving prepared food. However, any such organization selling or dispensing alcoholic beverages shall be subject to all ordinance regulations dealing with general licensing and consumption on the premises establishments.
(Ord. of 8-6-13, § 1)
Sec. 6-154. - Investigative and administrative costs.
Each application for a license under this article shall be accompanied by a certified check for the full amount of the license fee, together with a separate certified check in the amount of the investigative/administrative costs. If the application is denied and the license refused, or if the applicant is denied a state license, the deposit representing the license fee shall be refunded; but the cost paid for investigative and administrative cost shall be retained. However, any person applying for more than one license shall pay only one fee to defray investigative and administrative expenses, which fee shall be the largest of the investigative and administrative fees authorized under this Code. Any applicant for a license under this article who has in existence at the time of making the new application an existing license under this article shall pay no investigative and administrative costs.
(Ord. of 8-6-13, § 1)
Sec. 6-155. - Hours and days of sale.
EXPAND
(a) Monday 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(b) Tuesday 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(c) Wednesday 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(d) Thursday 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(e) Friday 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(f) Saturday 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(g) Sunday No sales.
(h) No beer and/or wine shall be sold for consumption at any time in violation of any local ordinance or regulation or of any special order of the board of commissioners.
  (Ord. of 8-6-13, § 1)
Secs. 6-156—6-170. - Reserved.
