ARTICLE XXIV. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 24.1. - Conflict with other regulations.
Whenever the regulations of this chapter require a greater width or size of yards, courts, or other open spaces, or require a lower height of buildings or smaller number of stories, or require a greater percentage of lot to be left unoccupied, or impose other more restrictive standards than are required in or under any other ordinance or statute, the regulations and requirements of this chapter shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other statute or ordinance require more restrictive standards than are required by this chapter, the provisions of such statute or ordinance shall govern.
Sec. 24.2. - Separability/severability.
Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid. It is the intent that any provision declared unconstitutional shall be severed from the ordinance, and the remainder of the ordinance remain in effect.
Sec. 24.3. - Repealer.
This chapter replaces the prior zoning ordinance, adopted November 7, 1996, as amended. In the event all of this chapter is struck down as void, unconstitutional or invalid, including therefore this provision, the prior ordinances shall be considered to not have been repealed, and shall therefore still be in effect. In the event the prior ordinance is declared void, unconstitutional or invalid, the next prior ordinance shall be considered to not have been repealed, and shall therefore still be in effect; and so on.
Sec. 24.4. - Charge for copy of chapter.
There shall be a charge of twenty dollars ($20.00), payable to the City of Cartersville for each copy of this chapter to partially defray publication cost.
Sec. 24.5. - Effective date.
This chapter shall take effect and be in force as of the date of its adoption, the public welfare of the City of Cartersville demanding.
