ARTICLE VI. - LICENSED CATERERS AND SPECIAL EVENTS[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 17,2010, § 2, adopted Nov. 8, 2010, amended art. VI in its entirety and enacted similar provisions as set out herein. The former art. VI derived from Ord. No. 14,2010, § 2, adopted Sept. 13, 2010.
Ord. No. 14,2010 added provisions designated as §§ 6-200 through 6-207 to the Code. Inasmuch as said sections already existed as part of art. IV, the new provisions were redesignated as herein set out at the editor's discretion.

Sec. 6-350. - Definitions.
In addition to the definitions provided in section 6-2, the following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this article, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Auditorium means the Cedartown Civic Auditorium.
Auditorium commission means the Cedartown Auditorium Commission, as it is currently constituted or may be amended or reorganized from time to time.
Authorized catered function means a scheduled special social event, reception, party, or similar activity for which a caterer or event location has prepared substantial food items to be served with appropriate serving facilities and personnel.
Building inspector means the building inspector for the city.
Drink means any bottle, can, or glass of beer, glass of wine, or distilled spirits beverage served for consumption on the premises, which may or may not be diluted by any other liquid.
Food caterer shall mean any person who prepares food for consumption off the premises and has a license to do so.
Licensed alcoholic beverage caterer shall mean any retail dealer who has been licensed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and O.C.G.A. § 3-11-2.
Licensee shall mean the person to whom an alcoholic beverage license is issued, or in the case of a partnership, corporation, or other legal entity, all partners, officers, and directors of such entity.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel, or other original consumer container.
Purchase price means the consideration received for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink valued in money, whether received in cash or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the licensee to the purchaser, without any deduction there from whatsoever.
Purchaser means any person who orders and gives present or future consideration for any alcoholic beverage by the drink.
Special event means an authorized catered function as defined above, or, if no food is to be served, a social gathering, reception, party, or similar function organized in connection with a central cause, purpose, or other such event.
(Ord. No. 17,2010, § 2(1), 11-8-10; Ord. No. 1-2012, § 1, 1-9-12)
Sec. 6-351. - Authority to sell; license required; no distribution, sale or possession for sale without license; separate application and separate license required for each place of business.
Alcoholic beverage caterers may operate in the city only under a license granted by the city on the terms and conditions provided in this chapter. Wine, beer and malt beverages, and distilled spirits shall not be distributed, sold or possessed for the purposes of sale by alcoholic beverage caterers without a license granted by the city. A separate application must be made and a separate alcoholic beverage caterer license must be obtained for each place of business. The criteria for the issuance of such a license and any renewals thereof shall be identical to the criteria for all other alcoholic beverage licenses issued under this chapter. All licenses issued hereunder shall also be subject to all regulations, ordinances, and requirements contained in chapter 6 regarding alcoholic beverages generally; except any special event conducted on public property that may occur within any zoning district of the city.
(Ord. No. 17,2010, § 2(2), 11-8-10)
Sec. 6-352. - Eligibility for license; application; fee.
(a)
Any holder of a license issued by a city or county governing authority authorizing the licensee to sell beer, malt beverages, or wine by the drink for consumption on the premises may apply for an off-premises license as an alcoholic beverage caterer to sell or distribute beer, malt beverages, or wine by the drink off premises and in connection with an authorized catered function or special event, and at the location of that function or special event.
(b)
Any holder of a license issued by a city or county governing authority authorizing the licensee to sell beer, malt beverages, or wine by the package for consumption off the premises may apply for an off-premises license as an alcoholic beverage caterer to sell or distribute beer, malt beverages, or wine by the drink off premises and in connection with an authorized catered function or special event, and at the location of that function or special event.
(c)
Any holder of a license issued by a city or county governing authority authorizing the licensee to sell distilled spirits by the drink for consumption on the premises may apply for an off-premises license as an alcoholic beverage caterer to sell or distribute distilled spirits by the drink off premises and in connection with an authorized catered function or special event, and at the location of that function or special event.
(d)
Any holder of a city license authorizing the licensee to sell distilled spirits by the package for consumption off the premises may apply for an off premises license as an alcoholic beverage caterer to sell or distribute beer, malt beverages, or wine by the drink off premises and in connection with an authorized catered function or special event, and at the location of that function or special event.
(e)
Each application for a license as an alcoholic beverage caterer shall be accompanied by a certified check for the full amount of the license fee, as follows:
(1)
Alcoholic beverage caterers selling wine to be consumed on the premises and at the location of the function or special event - fee as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges.
(2)
Alcoholic beverage caterers selling beer and malt beverages to be consumed on the premises and at the location of the function or special event - fee as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges.
(3)
Alcoholic beverage caterers selling distilled spirits to be consumed on the premises and at the location of the function or special event - fee as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges.
(4)
A combination license for alcoholic beverage caterers selling wine and beer and malt beverages to be consumed on the premises and at the location of the function or special event - fee as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges.
(5)
A combination license for alcoholic beverage caterers selling wine, beer and malt beverages, and distilled spirits to be consumed on the premises and at the location of the function or special event - fee as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Ord. No. 17,2010, § 2(3), 11-8-10; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 6-353. - Event permits; alcoholic beverage license required.
(a)
Any alcoholic beverage caterer who possesses a valid license from the city or another county or city in Georgia and possesses a valid license from the state to sell malt beverages, wine or distilled spirits by the drink or by the package at a fixed location within that city or county may be issued by the city an event permit authorizing such sales off premises and in connection with an authorized catered event, function, or special event, and at the location of that function or special event.
(b)
A licensed alcoholic beverage caterer may sell only that beverage which is authorized by the alcoholic beverage license in effect. For example, if the alcoholic beverage caterer possesses a valid license to sell malt beverages, only malt beverages can be sold by the alcoholic beverage caterer at an authorized catered event, function, or special event. If the caterer desires to sell any other alcoholic beverage for which the caterer is not licensed, the caterer may apply for such additional licenses, pursuant to this division [article].
(c)
If food is to be sold or served at a special event, then any food caterer, as defined herein, operating within the city shall also apply for an alcoholic beverage caterer's license in order to distribute or sell any distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages or wine off the premises of the food caterer's business. This does not affect any requirements that the food caterer have a license to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises of the food caterer's business. Food caterers shall not be subject to any requirements of percentage sales ratios between food and alcoholic beverages at special events.
(d)
An alcoholic beverage caterer shall submit an application for an off-premises special event permit to the building inspector. The license may be applied for at the same time as the alcoholic beverage license(s).
(e)
The building inspector shall review the application and either approve or deny the permit in writing within five business days. If the application is denied, then the denial shall state the grounds therefore. An applicant may appeal the building inspector's denial of a permit to the city manager, whose decision shall be final.
(f)
It is unlawful for any person to engage in, carry on or conduct the sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages off premises and in connection with an authorized catered event or function or special event without first having obtained a permit as provided herein.
(Ord. No. 17,2010, § 2(4), 11-8-10)
Sec. 6-354. - Authorized catered function or "special event;" event permit required; application; taxes; fees; location; insurance.
(a)
Exclusive of the license required herein, each alcoholic beverage caterer wishing to sell or distribute distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages, or wine at an authorized catered event, function, or special event within the city must apply for an event permit. The application for the event shall include the following:
(1)
The name of the caterer and the alcoholic beverage caterer's license number;
(2)
The date, location, time, duration, and name of the event;
(3)
The sponsoring organizations, nature of the event, general purpose thereof, and whether the proceeds are for a for-profit or nonprofit organization;
(4)
An application for a certificate of special event insurance, covering BOTH the event itself and all persons or parties responsible for the dispensing of alcoholic beverages at the event;
(5)
Proof that the applicant has also applied for a special event permit with the Georgia Department of Revenue;
(6)
The quantity of alcoholic beverages to be transported from the licensee's primary location to the location of the event;
(7)
The persons who are responsible for the special event, including their names, addresses, relevant contact information, and Social Security number or other identifying information;
(8)
Such other information as might be required by this chapter and/or the building inspector, so as to be able to fully review all aspects of the special event application.
(b)
All caterers licensed pursuant to this division shall pay excise taxes at the rates set forth in this article.
(1)
Caterers licensed by the city shall maintain a record of all alcoholic beverages transported for each event by event, and shall submit their reports and remit taxes due with their monthly reports to the city.
(2)
Caterers licensed by any other jurisdiction shall maintain a record of all alcoholic beverages transported into the city for any event and submit a report of such beverages to the city within three days after the conclusion of the event. Failure to submit the reports and taxes required by this section may be grounds for denial of future permits to any caterer for similar events.
(c)
Each application shall be accompanied with a fee as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges, which shall defray the cost incurred in background investigations, review of the permit, and related matters by the building inspector, and, potentially, by the city manager. The application fee is nonrefundable. In the event a permit is granted, an additional fee as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges shall be paid. With each application, a certified check for the application fee shall accompany the application. No permit shall be granted until the fee as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges is paid.
(d)
The original permit shall be kept in the vehicle at all times while transporting the alcoholic beverages to the authorized catered event or function or special event. It also shall be maintained at the site of the catered event and available for inspection both at and during such event or function or special event.
(e)
It is unlawful for a licensed alcoholic beverage caterer to distribute or sell alcoholic beverages off the premises of the special event or in any manner other than as authorized by the event permit. All sales or service of alcoholic beverages at the event shall take place within the primary structure of the building, within certain defined areas of the special event location, and within the basic confines of the location (excluding areas of service of alcoholic beverages), as described in the application of the caterer. No alcoholic beverages may be sold or served outside of the confines of the general location of the special event; nor, will any patron of the special event be allowed to leave the special event location with alcoholic beverages.
(f)
The event permit will be valid only for the length of the authorized catered event or function or special event or as approved by the city, not to exceed three days. After expiration of the event, the alcoholic beverage caterer must apply for a new event permit in the same manner as the original permit.
(g)
The alcoholic beverage caterer shall provide one person per 100 people at the special event to serve as security for said event.
(h)
Within not less than five days prior to the special event the caterer shall provide the building inspector with an insurance certificate, evidencing coverage for the special event and all persons serving alcoholic beverages at the special event location. This insurance certificate shall name the city as an additional named insured, together with any department of the city that may be the recipient of any proceeds of that special event, or otherwise may be involved in assisting with the special event in any manner. The insurance coverage shall be a minimum of $1,000,000.00 per occurrence, and $100,000.00 in property damage coverage, evidenced on the face of the certificate.
(i)
No employee, agent, elected official, servant, or other party affiliated in any manner with the city shall receive any percentage of the proceeds, individually (and not as a part of their official function with the city), for their involvement in the event, except as to their general rate of pay or other similar remuneration to said individual through the city. This limitation shall not apply to events and/or performances held at the Cedartown Civic Auditorium, at which the Cedartown Auditorium Commission serves as the alcoholic beverage caterer.
(Ord. No. 17,2010, § 2(5), 11-8-10; Ord. No. 1-2012, § 2, 1-9-12; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 6-355. - Duration and renewal of licenses.
Any alcoholic beverage caterer's license issued hereunder shall automatically expire on December 31sof the year of its issuance. Each licensee shall make a written application for renewal on or before November 15 of each year.
(Ord. No. 17,2010, § 2(6), 11-8-10)
Sec. 6-356. - Restrictions.
(a)
No person under the age of 21 shall be employed by a licensed alcoholic beverage caterer, who, in the course of such employment, would dispense, serve, sell, or handle alcoholic beverages as prohibited by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23.
(b)
No alcoholic beverage caterer may distribute or sell alcoholic beverages during any hours prohibited in the state or county or on any days prohibited in the state, county, or city.
(Ord. No. 17,2010, § 2(7), 11-8-10)
Sec. 6-357. - Violations.
(a)
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a Code violation and be subject to a fine as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges and/or six months in jail per violation.
(b)
Any person violating any provision of this chapter may also, after a hearing as provided in this chapter, have their malt beverage, wine, and/or distilled spirits license or occupational tax certificate suspended or revoked and/or be subject to other penalties as provided for in connection with violations of said license.
(Ord. No. 17,2010, § 2(8), 11-8-10; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 6-358. - Auditorium commission as licensee.
(a)
The Cedartown City Commission recognizes and appreciates the role of the Cedartown Auditorium Commission in providing a venue for the citizens of Cedartown and northwest Georgia to enjoy musical, theatrical, artistic, and other similar cultural events. The commission further recognizes and appreciates the efforts the auditorium commission has recently made and continues to make with respect to fundraising, sponsorship, advertising, concessions, and other similar efforts, so that it may eventually become not only a self-sustaining entity, but also a potential source of revenue for the city.
(b)
In recognition of the foregoing, the auditorium commission may apply for and be granted an alcoholic beverage catering license for events that it sponsors or promotes at the auditorium, and shall not be required to have, or provide an alcoholic beverage or food catering license, as required by section 6-352, in order to be eligible for an alcoholic beverage catering license under this article. However, the auditorium commission must pay all fees and comply with all other provisions of this article and this Code regarding alcoholic beverage catering licenses and serving alcoholic beverages generally.
(Ord. No. 1-2012, § 3, 1-9-12)
