Chapter 42 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; civil emergencies, ch. 30; historical preservation, ch. 54; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 70; utilities, ch. 82.
State Law reference— Authority to provide police and fire protection, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(1); statewide application of Standard Fire Prevention Code, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; The Uniform Act for the Application of Building and Fire Related Codes to Existing Buildings, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-200; providing of fire escapes and exits by building owners, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50; obstruction or hindering of firefighters, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-24.1; regulation of fire and other hazards to persons and property generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-1 et seq.; local fire departments generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-1 et seq.; authority to enact ordinances or fire and life safety codes, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-4; Georgia Firefighter Standards and Training Act, O.C.G.A. § 25-4-1 et seq.; mutual aid resource pacts, O.C.G.A. § 25-6-1 et seq.; Georgia Fire Academy Act, O.C.G.A. § 25-7-1 et seq.; regulation of fireworks, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1 et seq.; electronic security systems installed and serviced by counties or municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-12.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 42-1. - Fire prevention code adopted.
The Standard Fire Prevention Code (SBCCI) is adopted by reference and may be amended for later editions as required by the Georgia Uniform Codes Act, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25.
(Code 1969, § 9-1)
Sec. 42-2. - Damaging or interfering with fire department property or operations; driving over fire hose.
Any person who shall willfully or knowingly injure or damage in any way or by any means whatsoever, or use without permission, any engine, hose, hook or ladder, or other implement, material or apparatus of any kind connected with or used by any fire company in the city as a part of their machinery or material for extinguishing fires, or drive over any hose on the streets, or interfere in any way whatsoever with the fire department at fires, parades or practices, or knowingly put any obstruction in front of any house used by the fire department for keeping its apparatus, shall be punished as prescribed in section 1-13.
(Code 1969, § 9-3)
State Law reference— Obstruction or hindering of firefighters, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-24.1; following fire apparatus or emergency vehicle, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-247; crossing fire hose, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-248.
Sec. 42-3. - Riding on fire department equipment.
It shall be unlawful for any person, other than active members of the fire department, to get upon, or to ride upon, the fire truck or other apparatus of the fire department, either in going to or returning from fires, or at other times, except at the request of the driver of such equipment, or at the request of any city official in charge of such equipment.
(Code 1969, § 9-4)
Sec. 42-4. - Persons who may be present at fires; refusal to leave scene of fire.
No person except firefighters, members of the police force, the city manager, city commissioners, property owners, their agents, insurance agents and/or fire investigators shall be allowed within the immediate vicinity of a fire, without being ordered there by the chief or his assistants or the officers in command of the department. Unauthorized persons shall be notified by the chief, assistants, captain or officer in charge to leave the area being used by the fire department. Any person refusing to obey such order and direction, shall be punished as prescribed in section 1-13.
(Code 1969, § 9-2)
Sec. 42-5. - Driving in vicinity of fire.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle in such a manner as to block or impede the streets and lanes in which the fire department is assembled for the purpose of extinguishing a fire. Should any person violate this chapter, the person may be arrested by any officer and on conviction be punished as prescribed in section 1-13.
(Code 1969, § 9-6)
Sec. 42-6. - Stealing goods during fire.
Any officer at a fire scene shall arrest any person who shall be caught stealing or removing goods or any article of value from any fire scene or area burned by a fire.
(Code 1969, § 9-5)
Sec. 42-7. - Key lock box system.
(a)
The following structures shall be equipped with a key lock box at or near the main entrance or such other location required by the fire chief:
(1)
Commercial or industrial structures protected by an automatic alarm system or automatic suppression system, or such structures that are secured in a manner that restricts access during an emergency;
(2)
Multifamily residential structures that have restricted access through locked doors and have a common corridor for access to the living units;
(3)
Governmental structures and nursing-care facilities;
(4)
All high-rise buildings, i.e. structures having floors at 50 feet above ground level.
(b)
All newly constructed structures subject to this section shall have the key lock box installed and operational prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit.
(c)
The fire chief shall designate the type of key lock box system to be implemented within the city and shall have the authority to require all structures to use the designated system.
(d)
The owner or operator of a structure required to have a key lock box shall, at all times, keep a key in the lock box that will allow for access to the structure.
(e)
The fire chief shall be authorized to implement rules and regulations for the use of the lock box system.
(f)
Once received, the Knox box shall be securely attached to the building by the main entrance six feet to center above ground level.
Exception: Any building or structure having on-site 24-hour security personnel may be exempt from the requirements of this section at the discretion of the fire chief.
(Ord. No. 10,2007, § 1, 8-13-07)
Secs. 42-8—42-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SELF-SERVICE GASOLINE STATIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Use of hold-open latches at self-service gasoline stations, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-16.

Sec. 42-31. - Violations; penalty.
Any person who violates this article, or who violates any applicable rules and regulations of the state fire marshal with regard to the operation of self-service motor fuel dispensing pumps, shall be punished as provided in section 1-13. Violation of such provisions shall be cause for the suspension or revocation of a license to operate self-service pumps within the city. Each separate violation of this article shall be deemed a new offense and punishable accordingly.
(Code 1969, § 9-9(j))
Sec. 42-32. - License.
(a)
Any person who operates any gasoline or other motor fuel dispensing station within the corporate limits of the city who has a valid business license, currently in force, to operate the station in the city, may make application with the city clerk to obtain a license to operate self-service motor fuel dispensing pumps within the corporate limits of the city at the station's present location. The city commission shall have full power and authority to set the amount of the license tax to be paid by such person for the operation of the pumps.
(b)
Any person who wishes to operate self-service motor fuel dispensing pumps within the corporate limits of the city and does not have a valid current business license to operate a service station may make application with the city clerk to obtain a business license and a separate license to operate self-service pumps within the city.
(c)
A license to operate self-service motor fuel dispensing pumps within the corporate limits of the city shall be effective from January 1 to December 31 of each year, and each owner of the station shall reapply before the termination of the year for another annual license to operate self-service pumps under the provisions outlined in this article.
(Code 1969, § 9-9(a), (b), (i))
Sec. 42-33. - State permit required; applicability of state regulations.
No person shall be given a license to operate self-service motor fuel dispensing pumps within the corporate limits of the city unless and until they have obtained a permit from the state fire marshal which states that their respective motor fuel distribution station complies with all applicable state regulations for the operation of such stations, including but not limited to all regulations regarding self-service fuel pumps. The number, design, location and operation of self-service fuel pumps shall be governed through applicable regulations by the state fire marshal's office. The rules and regulations for flammable and combustible liquids as promulgated and as from time to time amended by the state fire marshal are incorporated by reference and expressly made a part of this article.
(Code 1969, § 9-9(c))
Sec. 42-34. - Attendant.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a self-service motor fuel dispensing pump unless an attendant is present at the pump's location. The attendant shall be at least 18 years of age, experienced with and physically capable of performing the required duties, careful, capable and able to read and write the English language. He shall be familiar with the provisions and regulations of the state fire marshal regarding operation of self-service motor fuel dispensing pumps.
(Code 1969, § 9-9(d))
Sec. 42-35. - Posting of directions and warning signs; fire extinguishers.
Each self-service motor fuel dispensing pump shall have step-by-step operation directions attached to either the nozzle side or top of the pump. Each pump island shall have a sign posted, in letters not less than four inches high, reading as follows: "Self-Service," "No Smoking," "Cut Off Engine," before dispensing product. At least one fire extinguisher shall be placed at each motor fuel dispensing pump island.
(Code 1969, § 9-9(f))
Sec. 42-36. - Emergency power cutoff switch.
In all self-service stations, a clearly identified and easily accessible switch shall be installed not more than 100 feet from dispensers which will operate as an emergency power cutoff for each motor fuel dispensing pump. This emergency cutoff device must be capable of cutting off power to lighting and any other low voltage circuits.
(Code 1969, § 9-9(g))
Sec. 42-37. - Control of fuel dispensing.
All self-service stations must have either automatic remote control or key lock pumping dispensers. Automatic remote control systems must have a two-way intercom from the office or island house to each pump dispensing island. Key lock pumping dispensers must not be cleared for dispensing until a customer is ready to use them.
(Code 1969, § 9-9(h))
Sec. 42-38. - Operation of self-service pumps by certain persons prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 16 years, any person under the influence of intoxicants, narcotics or drugs, or any person not capable because of physical or mental capacity, to operate any self-service motor fuel dispensing pump.
(Code 1969, § 9-9(e))
Secs. 42-39—42-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FIRE PROTECTION OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Operation of other fire departments within municipalities or counties, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-5.

Sec. 42-61. - Eligibility.
(a)
For purposes of this article, the term "outside fire protection" means that service, provided pursuant to this article, granted to residents who reside outside of the corporate limits of the city and who otherwise meet all criteria for receiving protection from the city's fire department in the case of any emergency which requires fire assistance.
(b)
No dwelling or other improved property shall be registered under this article unless the property is located within five road miles from the city fire station, as promulgated by the city commission.
(c)
No call outside the corporate limits of the city shall be answered by the fire department unless and until the property to be protected has, within 24 hours in advance of such call, complied with all conditions and requirements of this article.
(Code 1969, § 9-21; Ord. No. 7-2016 , § 1, 11-14-16)
Sec. 42-62. - Registration of property owners; annual registration fee.
(a)
Application; payment of fee. Any owner, or designee of any owner, of any property outside of the corporate limits which is to be subject to the provisions of this article affording outside fire protection shall apply for registration with the city clerk's office. The applicant shall provide such information as may, from time to time, be requested by the city to properly register any such property for outside fire protection. Such owner, or the owner's designee, of any property properly registered with the city shall pay such annual registration fee as designated by the city for each residence, plant or other insured dwelling, as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges; except that out buildings and other improvements considered insured as a part of the curtilage of a residence shall be included with the registration fee.
(b)
Exemptions from fee. Church buildings, fellowship halls and other such similar structures on the same site location may apply for exemption from the fee to be paid pursuant to this section provided they otherwise meet all criteria for outside fire protection. However, church-owned residential property (e.g., a parsonage) is not applicable for exemption under this subsection.
(c)
Records. The city shall keep records of all outside fire protection registrations readily available for public inspection during normal business hours so as to accurately allow the fire department to determine what property outside the corporate limits is properly subject to the provisions of this article granting outside fire protection to such property.
(d)
Proration of fee; refunds. If any properly registered owner, or the owner's designee, applies for registration at any time other than during annual renewal, the annual fee shall be subject to a minimum six-month fee or proration, depending upon the month of registration, as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges. Proration of the registration fee shall be 1/12 of the annual fee for each month or part of a month registered, in addition to the standard administration fee, but not to exceed the annual fee rate. The same calculation shall be used in the event of a request for a rebate, refund or other alleged right of proration due to an owner selling the dwelling, loss of the dwelling by fire, registration of the dwelling after the first of the year or similar circumstances. Any refunds must be applied for at the time of cancellation. Fees shall be as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges.
(e)
Renewal. Not later than February 1 of each calendar year, the registrant shall renew and pay the applicable fee for annual outside fire protection registration. Late payments shall result in termination of outside fire protection, and a 15 percent penalty shall be assessed for late registration and reinstatement.
(Code 1969, §§ 9-22, 9-23; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 42-63. - Termination of service.
Outside fire protection services shall be terminated for failure to pay any fees, assessments, registration costs or other costs associated with the granting of this service by the city or if the city changes rules, regulations or procedures for granting such protection to parties outside the corporate limits of the city. In any event, the granting of fire protection is a privilege subject to revocation by the city, and any change, amendment or alteration of the procedures affecting such protection shall be within the sole and absolute discretion of the city.
(Code 1969, § 9-24)
Sec. 42-64. - Fire service fees.
In addition to the annual registration fee required by section 42-62, any registrant under this article shall pay a fire protection service fee. For the purposes of this article, this fee shall be defined as the amount of charge made by the city fire department for answering any call relating to an emergency or other endangerment by fire or similar calamity to the affected property. This fee, or any revisions thereto, shall be promulgated by the fire department, subject to approval of the city manager and city commission. All such service fees for actually answering an emergency call outside of the corporate limits of the city may be assessed and billed by the tenth of the month following the rendering of the service and shall be due when rendered. If not paid within 90 days thereafter, a 15 percent penalty shall apply, together with all reasonable costs of collection, for failure of any registrant to pay the fees as they may become due.
(Code 1969, § 9-25)
Sec. 42-65. - Limitation on city's duty to respond to calls; disclaimer of liability.
(a)
Nothing contained in this article shall be construed as a contractual duty or obligation in any manner of the city to respond to any call for outside fire protection to a registrant when it is impractical to respond due to other emergencies, an act of God or other calamity which prevents an immediate response.
(b)
Nothing contained in this article shall impose any liability upon the city or its commission, staff, employees, agents or assigns for failure to extinguish a fire, failure to prevent a fire from spreading, or otherwise conducting any acts in attempting to provide outside fire protection to any property improvement, dwelling or other structure owned by any registrant. Further, there shall be no liability upon the city for any damage, injury, loss or claim due to injuries to persons or property by reason of the personnel of the city responding to any call or otherwise providing any outside fire protection service pursuant to this article.
(Code 1969, § 9-26)
Secs. 42-66—42-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Regulation of fire extinguishers and suppression systems, O.C.G.A. § 25-12-1 et seq.

Sec. 42-91. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Engineered fire suppression system means any fire suppression system having pipe lengths, number of fittings, number and types of nozzles, suppression agent flow rates and nozzle pressures as determined by calculations derived from the appropriate standards of the National Fire Protection Association, whether those calculations are performed by hand or by a computer program or by other method of calculation. These systems may consist of other components, including, but not limited to, detection devices, alarm devices and control devices as tested and approved by a nationally recognized testing laboratory, and shall be manufacturer-listed as compatible with the fire suppression system involved.
Fire suppression system means any firefighting system employing a suppression agent with the purpose of controlling, suppressing or extinguishing a fire in a specific hazard. The suppression agent shall be a currently recognized agent or water additive required to control, suppress or extinguish a fire. The term fire suppression system shall include engineered and preengineered systems as defined in this article.
Firm means any business, person, partnership, organization, association, corporation or individual.
Permit means the document issued by the appropriate official of the city which authorizes, as well as any permit by the fire commissioner, an individual to install, inspect, repair, recharge, service or test fire suppression systems.
Preengineered fire suppression system means any system having predetermined flow rates, nozzle pressures and quantities of an extinguishing agent. These systems have the specific pipe size, maximum and minimum pipe lengths, flexible hose specifications, number of fittings and number of types of nozzles prescribed by a nationally recognized testing laboratory. The hazards protected by these systems are specifically limited as to the type and size by the testing laboratory based upon actual fire tests. Limitations on hazards that can be protected by these systems are contained in the manufacturer's installation manual, which is referenced as part of the listing.
(Code 1969, § 9-42)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 42-92. - Compliance with article, other laws and regulations.
It shall be unlawful for any person to install, recharge, repair or connect a fire suppression system to the water supply systems of the city unless such installation is in conformity with all requirements of this article, all applicable provisions of O.C.G.A. § 25-12-1 et seq., and appropriate standards of the National Fire Protection Association or other applicable laws, rules and regulations governing such use.
(Code 1969, § 9-41)
Sec. 42-93. - Application, fees and monthly charges.
(a)
Any firm desiring to construct a fire suppression system within the corporate limits of the city shall apply upon forms provided by the city to the building inspector for a "tap" or connection of the fire suppression system lines into the city water supply system. The application shall contain such pertinent information, together with all associated deposits or fees, as may be required by the city.
(b)
Any application for a fire suppression system hookup shall be accompanied by a payment of such fees as are from time to time adopted by the city. These fees may be higher for connection outside the corporate limits of the city. (See the schedule of fees and charges as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission.) Such fees are not intended to include cost for any additional labor, materials or work of the city required to properly accomplish connection. All additional fees, charges or costs incurred by the city to accomplish proper connection shall, in addition to the initial fee, be paid by the applicant.
(c)
There shall be no charge for present existing and connected fire suppression systems; however, should any present systems be altered or modified so as to require any significant change in the connection process, water usage or similar problems within the water supply system of the city, the connection charge shall then apply in any such instance.
(d)
A monthly charge for use of the city water supply system for all new or existing fire suppression systems shall be assessed commencing on the first billing following the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived, at a rate as may be promulgated by the commission, or as may be hereafter amended, for all fire suppression systems currently connected, or which may hereafter be connected, to the water supply system of the city.
(Code 1969, § 9-43; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 42-94. - Installation, maintenance and regulation of fire suppression systems.
(a)
All water taps installation or other construction of fire suppression systems shall be subject to any specifications and supervision required by personnel of the city, the state fire commissioner's office pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 25-12-1 or any and all federal, state or local regulations promulgated under those authorities.
(b)
Any excessive use exceeding normal supply requirements of the city shall, in the discretion of the city, require the installation of such special metering devices, instruments or other controls needed to adequately monitor the fire suppression system.
(c)
A "double detector check valve device" as commonly defined in the industry as a detection and back flow prevention system shall be installed by any applicant, or any existing user, of a fire suppression system to adequately protect the city water supply from contamination, leakage or other health or safety hazard which might occur as a result of the connection of the fire suppression system to the city water supply. All water sprinkler system users shall maintain and certify to the city, on not less than an annual basis, that the detection valve system is properly maintained, operated and has been inspected pursuant to applicable federal, state and/or local regulations to ensure its proper functioning capacity.
(d)
The city manager, with approval of the city commission, shall have the authority to adopt such rules, regulations or requirements for installation, maintenance or continued operation of fire suppression systems as may from time to time be required to enforce the purposes of this article and all federal and state laws governing same.
(Code 1969, § 9-44)
Secs. 42-95—42-120. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - OPEN BURNING

Sec. 42-121. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Combustible wastes means any waste or material capable of combustion, which includes ordinary noncombustible materials rendered combustible by the combining of noncombustible material or fuels.
Curtain destructor means a mechanical blower used to stimulate fires or other type of burning, in order to both eliminate smoke and increase the efficiency of any burning process.
Open burning means the disposal of any combustible wastes or materials by burning outside the confines of a building, incinerator or container designed, equipped and functioning to reduce the production of dissemination of smoke or fumes to a level which does not impair the health or comfort of the inhabitants of the city, and to prevent the emission of sparks.
(Ord. No. 16-1995, § 1, 9-11-95)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 42-122. - Permit required.
No person shall kindle, maintain or authorize any open burning or fire without a permit from the city fire department unless a variance is granted by the fire chief as provided in section 42-126.
(Ord. No. 16-1995, § 2, 9-11-95)
Sec. 42-123. - Land clearing permits.
Pit fires are the only approved burning method permitted for the purposes of land clearing. No aboveground fires are allowed in the city except through variance of this article. All pit fires shall be operated in strict accordance with the Air Curtain Destructor Operating Guide and Procedures as published by the environmental protection division (EPD), as hereafter amended and referenced in guidelines adopted by the city and on file with the city manager, fire chief or their designee. Pit fires shall comply with the following requirements:
(1)
The pit shall be at constructed a safe distance from any occupied or habitable structure or public road. Air curtain destructors used solely for utility line clearing or road clearing may be located at a lesser distance upon approval of the fire chief.
(2)
Only wood wastes consisting of trees, logs, brush and stumps may be burned. Sawdust; other densely packed wood wastes; paper (any type); chemically treated, coated or impregnated wood; or non-wood construction materials cannot be burned.
(3)
The amount of dirt on or in the material being burned shall be minimized.
(4)
No more than one air curtain destructor can be operated within a ten-acre area at one time. Further, there must be at least 1,000 feet between any two air curtain destructors. The air curtain destructor must be under control of a trained operator at all times during operation.
(5)
Air curtain destructors must be able to pass an even, nonturbulent flow of air across the top of the pit. Air curtain destructors with an air duct or manifold that has been altered by bends, dents, holes or other similar defects which do not provide an even and nonturbulent flow of air across the top of the pit, shall not be used during any permitted burning process.
(6)
The air curtain destructor shall be operated in a manner to prevent air, land or water pollution, safety/health hazards or any nuisances through the operation of the destructor.
(7)
Tires or other rubber products, plastics, heavy oils or asphaltic-based or impregnated materials shall not be used to start or maintain the operation of the air curtain destructor.
(8)
No smoke emissions exceeding 40 percent opacity may be produced during operation except for a reasonable period during ignition and charging of the pit, not to exceed ten minutes of initial pit operation.
(9)
When the pit is cleaned of ash, airborne particulate is to be minimized by wetting or mixing the ashes with dirt to ensure that all burning has ended.
(10)
Diesel fuel or kerosene only may be used to start pit fires, unless some other igniting fuel is approved by the fire chief.
(Ord. No. 16-1995, § 3, 9-11-95)
Editor's note— The reference in this section to exhibit A sets forth specifications and requirements for air curtain destructor operation and construction. An official copy of such exhibit is on file in the office of the city clerk.
Sec. 42-124. - Operating procedures for air curtain destructors.
Operating procedures for air curtain destructors shall be accomplished pursuant to all terms, provisions and conditions of this article dealing with open burning and any other provisions of federal or state law which might affect the use of such devices with the city. A person shall apply, on forms provided by the fire chief, for a permit to operate an air curtain destructor. The fire chief, or his designee, may promulgate such rules, regulations and operational instructions concerning the use of an air curtain destructor within the city, as may be necessary for the safe, efficient and proper operation of this device.
(Ord. No. 16-1995, § 4, 9-11-95)
Sec. 42-125. - Open burning allowed without a permit or variance.
The following methods of open burning shall not require a permit or variance pursuant to this article:
(1)
Fires for recreational purposes.
(2)
Cooking food for immediate human consumption, e.g., barbecues.
(3)
Firefighter training fires for the purposes of training firefighting personnel, provided that any asbestos-containing materials are removed in accordance with the environmental protection division's regulations governing asbestos, and that structures are emptied of any material in storage.
(4)
Residential leaf fires of less than three feet in diameter and two feet in height, with only one pile of leaves being ignited for any residential burning.
(Ord. No. 16-1995, § 5, 9-11-95)
Sec. 42-126. - Variances; appeal.
(a)
Any person may request a variance from the provisions of this article, setting forth the reasons why strict compliance with the terms and provisions of this article is not possible or otherwise should not be required. All variances granted by the fire chief shall be reduced to writing, setting forth the reason for the variance and the nature thereof. Any decision denying a variance or similar enforcement of this article by the fire chief may be appealed to the planning commission of the city.
(b)
Any person aggrieved by an order, determination, variance request or permit revocation by the fire chief may in writing appeal such order, determination or permit revocation within five business days to the planning commission of the city. In no event, however, shall a pit fire or other open burning continue after the fire chief has revoked a permit for such a fire.
(Ord. No. 16-1995, §§ 6, 11, 9-11-95)
Sec. 42-127. - Burning restrictions for permitted fires.
The fire chief may prohibit any and all outdoor fires when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous and on special days. Further, the following restrictions shall apply to burning activities within the city:
(1)
No burning shall occur at night on Christmas Day, New Year's Day, Thanksgiving Day and Independence Day.
(2)
No burning is permitted when prevailing winds are in the direction of populated areas which could result in a fire hazard, within the discretion of the fire chief.
(3)
No burning is permitted when there is fog, rain or cloud bases that are diffused, or ill defined; or for at least one-half day following the passage of a cold front.
(4)
No burning is permitted during an air pollution episode, such as an air pollution alert/warning/emergency declared by proper federal or state authorities which occurs when the air contaminate concentration in an area is great enough to cause danger to public health, or could exceed the 40 percent opacity level.
(Ord. No. 16-1995, § 7, 9-11-95)
Sec. 42-128. - Extinguishing of open burning.
The fire chief or any duly authorized fire officer of the city fire department shall have the authority to summarily extinguish any open burning which is in violation of any of the provisions of this article, and/or which constitutes an immediate threat to life, health and/or property.
(Ord. No. 16-1995, § 8, 9-11-95)
Sec. 42-129. - Enforcement.
The fire chief and city manager, or their designee, are authorized to have all powers necessary to enforce this article, which includes the authority to issue, deny or grant variances and/or permits for open burning.
(Ord. No. 16-1995, § 9, 9-11-95)
Sec. 42-130. - Penalties.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(Ord. No. 16-1995, § 10, 9-11-95)
