DIVISION 14. - SURCHARGE COSTS

Sec. 82-445. - Determination of amounts.
All sewer charges shall be 100 percent of the water charge made and collected by the city for furnishing water to any person, firm or corporation. In the event any such entity does not receive city water service, then the rate shall be computed based upon an exact amount of water consumption of that person, firm or corporation, applying that amount of consumption to the water charge schedule of the city, and computing the amount of a city water charge that would be placed on that service. Hereafter, notwithstanding any changes that may occur in the future in the schedule of water charges, as they may be, from time to time, promulgated and adopted, the sewer service rate charge shall be computed as 100 percent of the water charge, under the provisions of this section.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 14(14.1), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-446. - Additional meters.
Where it can be shown to the satisfaction of the superintendent that a significant portion of the water as measured by the water meter or meters does not enter the system, then the superintendent may require or permit the installation of additional meters or other devices as may be deemed necessary to establish that portion that does not enter the sewerage system, and the corrected meter flow will be used for billing of the sewer service charge. All such additional facilities will be provided by the owner of the premises concerned or other interested parties at no expense to the city.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 14(14.2), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-447. - Protection from tampering.
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently uncover and/or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the sewerage works. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct and punishment as provided in section 1-9 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 14(14.3), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-448. - Industrial wastewater surcharge.
(a)
Surcharge assessed. All industrial contributors whose wastewaters exceed 240 mg/L B.O.D., and/or 240 mg/L suspended solids shall be assessed a surcharge in addition to the user charge.
(b)
Basis of surcharge. The surcharge rate is determined based on cost per pound per day of treatment of waste by the city in the present categories of measurement, "B.O.D.", and "T.S.S." as defined in the definition provisions of this Code in section 82-193. The following equation, using the terms designated and further explained for purposes of the equation, shall be the basis of the rate of charge determination:
Explanation of Terms
(1)
B.O.D. and T.S.S.—As defined in section 82-193.
(2)
O&M cost—The total operation and maintenance costs for the water pollution control facilities system of the city.
(3)
BODR—The rate or cost per pound of B.O.D. treated by the water pollution control facility on an average daily basis.
(4)
TSSR—The rate or cost per pound of T.S.S. treated by the water pollution control facility on an average daily basis.
(5)
Q—The industrial metered flow of waste during a monthly billing cycle.
(6)
I—Industrial average strength of a particular waste in a billing cycle.
(7)
240 mg/L—Maximum limits industry is permitted to discharge to the sewer system before a surcharge is levied. These limits are established based on a designed capacity of the City of Cedartown water pollution control facilities.
(c)
Surcharge calculations. The equations for calculation of all surcharges, using the terms set forth in the preceding part hereof, are as follows:
(1)
BOD surcharge per pound—B.O.D. O & M, cost over 365 × BOD average pounds per day plant—BODR.
(2)
T.S.S. surcharge per pound—Same basis.
(3)
Therefore, the surcharge rate using the aforesaid calculations is as follows:
B.O.D - surcharge = Q × 8.33 × (BODi - 240) × BODR
T.S.S - surcharge = Q × 8.33 × (TSSi-240) × TSSR
(4)
The sum of the B.O.D. surcharge and T.S.S. surcharge = total surcharge.
Q = Industry flow in billing period.
BODi = Industry average B.O.D. in billing period.
TSSi = Industry average T.S.S. in billing period.
BODR = B.O.D. surcharge rate from subsection (d).
TSSR = T.S.S. surcharge rate from subsection (d).
(d)
Rate adjustment. The surcharge rate may be analyzed from time to time by the city, and adjusted based upon the aforesaid calculations, so as to maintain the surcharge amount at the cost of capital improvements for the treatment of industrial sewage by the water pollution control facility of the city.
(e)
Right to establish additional surcharge. Nothing contained in the above statement of rate of surcharge or method of calculation shall prohibit the city from hereafter establishing a method of surcharge for oil and grease calculations, excess capacity of flow into the plant for an industrial user or otherwise establishing additional methods for calculations of surcharge.
(f)
Measurement of flow in computing surcharges. The volume of flow used in computing industrial waste surcharges shall be based upon metered, estimated or prorated water consumption as shown in the records of meter reading maintained by the city water department. In the event that a person discharging wastes into the city sanitary sewer system produces evidence to the superintendent that a significant portion of the total annual volume of water used for all purposes does not reach the city sanitary sewer, an estimated percentage of total water consumption to be used in computing charges may be agreed upon between the superintendent and the persons discharging industrial wastes into said sewer, provided that said agreement shall be approved by the city commission.
(g)
Disputed analyses; regauging and sampling of wastes. In the event that an analysis of wastes, determined by the samplings and gauging of wastes from a person or industry by the city is disputed; a program of resampling and gauging, with subsequent chemical determination may be instituted as follows:
(1)
The person or industrial user interested must submit a request for re-sampling and gauging of their wastes to the Superintendent by letter and bind themselves to bear the expenses incurred by the City in the re-sampling and gauging and subsequent chemical determination of the wastes.
(2)
The chemist or engineer employed by the company responsible for the request submitted to the City must confer with the Superintendent or with the person in charge of gauging and sampling. They will establish the length of the rerun and the methods to be employed to determine the flow and to sample the flow.
(3)
The chemist or engineer engaged by the person or industry may be present during the gauging and sampling operation and also in the City laboratory during the chemical determination of the analysis.
(4)
The results of the analysis, determined from the quantity and quality of the flow shall be considered the analysis of record and shall be used to establish current billing procedures.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 14(14.4), 10-13-08)
Secs. 82-449—82-459. - Reserved.
