DIVISION 6. - REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 82-320. - Baseline monitoring reports.
(a)
Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical pretreatment standard or the final administrative decision on a category determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a) (4), whichever is later, existing significant industrial users subject to such categorical pretreatment standards and currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the POTW, shall be required to submit to the city a report which contains the information listed in paragraph (b), below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of their discharge, new sources and sources that become industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall be required to submit to the city a report which contains the information listed in paragraph (b), below. A new source shall also be required to report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable pretreatment standards. A new source shall also give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants discharged.
(b)
The industrial user shall submit the information required by this section including:
(1)
Identifying information. The name and address of the facility including the name of the operator and owners.
(2)
Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits held by or for the facility.
(3)
Description of operations. A brief description of the nature, average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s) carried out by such industrial user. This description should include a schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated processes.
(4)
Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process streams and other streams; as necessary, to allow use of the combined wastestream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
(5)
Measurement of pollutants.
a.
Identify the categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each regulated process.
b.
Submit the results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and concentration (and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the city) of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process. Instantaneous, daily maximum and long term average concentrations (or mass, where required) shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in section 82-329.
c.
Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out in section 82-330.
(6)
Certification. A statement reviewed by the industrial user's authorized representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
(7)
Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the industrial user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in section 82-321.
(8)
All baseline monitoring reports must be signed and certified in accordance with section 82-275.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 6(6.1), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-321. - Compliance schedule progress report.
The following conditions shall apply to the schedule required by subsection 82-320(b)(7). The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the applicable pretreatment standards (such events include hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts for major components, commencing and completing construction, beginning and conducting routine operation). No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months. The industrial user shall submit a progress report to the superintendent no later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment of progress, the reason for any delay, (and, if appropriate) the steps being taken by the industrial user to return to the established schedule. In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress reports to the Superintendent.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 6(6.2), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-322. - Report on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline.
Within ninety (90) days following the data for final compliance with applicable categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any industrial user subject to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the city a report containing the information described in subsections 82-320(b)(4) through (6). For industrial users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR 403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the industrial user's long term production rate. For all other industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the industrial user's actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with section 82-275.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 6(6.3), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-323. - Periodic compliance reports.
(a)
Any significant industrial user shall be responsible for sampling their own effluent at least twice per year or more often as determined by the city manager, but in no case less than twice per year (in June and December), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge which are limited by such pretreatment standards and the measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period. All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with section 82-275.
(b)
All wastewater samples must be representative of the industrial user's discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The failure of an industrial user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall not be grounds for the industrial user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative of its discharge.
(c)
If an industrial user subject to the reporting requirement in and of this section monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW, using the procedures prescribed in section 82-330 the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 6(6.4), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-324. - Report of changed conditions.
Each industrial user is required to notify the superintendent of any planned significant changes to the industrial user's operations or system which might alter the nature, quality or volume of its wastewater at least 20 days before the change.
(a)
The superintendent may require the industrial user to submit such information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under section 82-274.
(b)
The superintendent may issue a wastewater discharge permit under section 82-274 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under section 82-303.
(c)
No industrial user shall implement the planned changed condition(s) until and unless the superintendent has responded to the industrial user's notice.
(d)
For purposes of this requirement flow increases of ten percent or greater, and the discharge of any previously unreported pollutants shall be deemed significant.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 6(6.5), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-325. - Reports of potential problems.
(a)
In the case of any discharge including, but not limited to, accidental discharges; discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature; a noncustomary batch discharge; or a slug load which may cause potential problems for the POTW (including a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in section 82-225), it is the responsibility of the industrial user to immediately telephone and notify the city of the incident. This notification shall include the location of discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by the industrial user.
(b)
Within five days following such discharge, the industrial user shall, unless waived by the superintendent, submit a detailed written report describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the industrial user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the industrial user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the industrial user of any fines, civil penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this article.
(c)
Failure to notify the city of potential problem discharges shall be deemed a separate violation of this article.
(d)
A notice shall be permanently posted on the industrial user's bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a discharge described in paragraph (a), above. Employers shall ensure that all employees, who may cause or suffer such a discharge to occur, are advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 6(6.6), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-326. - Reports from nonsignificant industrial users.
All industrial users not subject to categorical pretreatment standards and not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide appropriate reports to the city as the superintendent may require.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 6(6.7), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-327. - Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting.
If sampling performed by an industrial user indicates a violation, the industrial user must notify the control authority within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The industrial user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the repeat analysis to the control authority within 30 days after becoming aware of the violation. The industrial user is not required to resample if the POTW performs monitoring at the industrial user's at least once a month, or if the POTW performs sampling between the industrial user's initial sampling and when the industrial user receives the results of this sampling.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 6(6.8), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-328. - Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste.
(a)
Any industrial user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify the POTW, the EPA regional waste management division director, and state hazardous waste authorities in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40 CFR part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 CFR part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the industrial user discharges more than 100 kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification shall also contain the following information to the extent such information is known and readily available to the industrial user: an identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharged during that calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the wastestream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the discharge commences. Any notification under this paragraph need be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of changed-discharges must be submitted under section 82-324, above. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to pollutants already reported under the self-monitoring requirements of sections 83-320, 82-322, and 82-323 above.
(b)
Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month or of any quantity of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the industrial user discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional notification.
(c)
In the case of any new regulations under section 3001 or RCRA identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional substance as a hazardous waste, the industrial user must notify the POTW, the EPA regional waste management waste division director, and state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the effective date of such regulations.
(d)
In the case of any notification made under this section, the industrial user shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be economically practical.
(e)
This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this ordinance, a permit issued thereunder, or any applicable Federal or State law.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 6(6.9), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-329. - Analytical requirements.
All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR part 136, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40 CFR part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance with procedures approved by the EPA.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 6(6.10), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-330. - Sample collection.
(a)
Except as indicated in subsection (b), below, the industrial user must collect wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection techniques. In the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the superintendent may authorize the use of time proportional sampling or through a minimum of four grab samples where the user demonstrates that this will provide a representative sample of the effluent being discharged. In addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
(b)
Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols, sulfides, and volatile organic chemicals must be obtained using grab collection techniques.
(c)
The city reserves the right to take independent samples of the effluent of all regulated industries for the determination of compliance to pretreatment standards and to determine the amount of surcharge.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 6(6.11), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-331. - Timing.
Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail facility serviced by the U.S. Postal Service, the date or [of] receipt of the report shall govern.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 6(6.12), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-332. - Record keeping.
Users subject to the reporting requirements of this article shall retain and make available for inspection and copying all records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this article and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user or the city, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer retention period by the superintendent.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 6(6.13), 10-13-08)
Secs. 82-333—82-349. - Reserved.
