Chapter 30 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, ch. 42; floods, ch. 46.
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-17 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70; authority to adopt temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(19).

Sec. 30-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions other than those functions for which military forces or state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, protection against the effects of radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection, shelter, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian population, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out the foregoing functions.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 30-2. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as provided in section 1-13.
Sec. 30-3. - Office of emergency management director.
In agreement or cooperation with the governing officials of the cities within the county, the city recognizes all Polk County emergency management requirements. The chairman, county commissioners, in cooperation with city officials within the county, shall nominate for appointment by the governor a director of emergency management for the entire county. When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the county and cities therein on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
To assist county and city officials in organizing county and city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
To develop, in conjunction with county and city departments, the county emergency operations plan for emergency functions set forth in section 30-1. Such plan will be in consonance with the Georgia Natural Disaster Operations Plan and Nuclear Emergency Operations Plan, and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities therein for approval, and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
To maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
To submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.
(6)
To obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used for an emergency operations center.
(7)
To coordinate activities of the emergency operations center staff during periods of an emergency, and under the supervision of governing officials.
Sec. 30-4. - Emergency management agency.
The emergency management agency shall be established around existing county and city departments and the emergency functions listed in section 30-1 above may be assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department/Agency Functions
(1) Chairman, county commissioners, city governing officials Direction and control
Public information supply, finances
(2) Sheriff's office, city and county police departments Police services
Evacuation
(3) Emergency management agency Communications and warning
Emergency public information
State military support
Training
Preliminary damage assessment and reporting
Public property assistance
Attack preparedness
Specific hazards
(4) Fire departments Search, rescue and recovery
Fire services
Hazardous materials
Radiological protection
(5) Road and street departments Engineering
Petroleum and solid fuel services
(6) Superintendent of schools Transportation services
Food services
(7) Health department Health and medical services
(8) City and county manager Administrative services
Resources management
Utilities
(9) Department of family and children services Social services
Shelter and temporary housing
  Heads of departments listed above are responsible for developing appropriate annexes to the local emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
Sec. 30-5. - Emergency powers.
In the event of manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the chairman, county commissioners, jointly with city officials of the affected cities, or in their absences their legally appointed successors may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources.
(2)
To seize or take for temporary use any private property for the protection of the public.
(3)
To sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
Sec. 30-6. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the county and cities therein, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county and city officers and employees.
