ARTICLE VII. - EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS

Sec. 94-500. - Front yard setbacks for dwellings.
The setback requirements of this chapter for dwellings shall not apply to any lot where the average existing building setback line on lots located wholly or in part within 100 feet on each side of such lot, within the same block and zoning district and fronting on the same side of the street as such lot is less than the minimum setback required. In such cases the setback on such lots may be less than the required setback, but not less than the average of the existing setbacks on the aforementioned lots, and in no case less than ten feet from the street right-of-way.
(Ord. No. 20-2008, 12-8-08)
Sec. 94-501. - Height limits.
(a)
Generally. The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to church spires, belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human occupancy; monuments, water towers, observation towers, transmission towers, chimneys, smokestacks, conveyors, flagpoles, radio towers, television towers, masts, aerials and similar structures.
(b)
Visibility at street intersections. On a corner lot in any district, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially impede vision between a height of two and one-half and ten feet above the centerline grades of the intersecting streets in the area bounded by the street lines of such corner lots and a line joining points along such street lines 25 feet from the point of the intersection.
(Ord. No. 20-2008, 12-8-08)
Sec. 94-502. - Group projects.
A group project, including, but not limited to, residential, commercial, industrial, educational, medical, religious or civic uses, of two or more buildings to be constructed on a plot of land of at least two acres not subdivided into customary streets and lots, and which will not be so subdivided, may be constructed provided:
(1)
Such uses are limited to those permitted within the district in which the project is located.
(2)
The overall intensity of land use is no higher, and the standard of open space is no lower, than that permitted on the district in which the project is located.
(3)
The distance of every building from the nearest property line shall meet the front yard setback and side yard requirements of the district in which the project is located.
(4)
The building heights do not exceed the height limits permitted in the district in which the project is located.
(Ord. No. 20-2008, 12-8-08)
Sec. 94-503. - Waiver of parking requirements in the central business district.
Minimum off-street automobile parking and storage space requirements as set forth herein may be waived in their application to the central business district (C-1).
(Ord. No. 20-2008, 12-8-08)
Sec. 94-504. - Mobile home parks.
Within the R-4 residential district, planned mobile home parks are conditional uses, provided the following regulations are met:
(1)
Purpose and scope. The purpose of this section is to provide locations within the city limits for development of planned mobile home parks. These areas should be developed and so located as to provide safe and sanitary living conditions for park occupants, and to be convenient to shopping centers, schools and other community facilities.
(2)
Application for a mobile home park.
a.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or maintain any mobile home for living or sleeping purposes on any premises in the city limits unless it be contained within a properly permitted and planned mobile home park pursuant to the provisions of this section.
b.
The planning commission may recommend approval of a planned mobile home park when all provisions of this section have been met. An application and all accompanying plans and supporting data shall be filed in triplicate with the planning commission at least two weeks prior to a regular meeting of the commission. The application shall be in writing and shall contain:
1.
The name and address of the applicant;
2.
The location and description of the boundaries of the property proposed for planned mobile home park development;
3.
A complete mobile home park plan showing all existing conditions and proposed site development as required in this section, including preliminary plans of all buildings, improvements and facilities constructed or to be constructed within the mobile home park on a topographic map; and
4.
Any other information requested by the planning commission to determine the proposed park's compliance with legal requirements, the effect which the proposed park may have on its environment and the compatibility of the adjacent area for park development within the framework of long-range development objectives.
(3)
Dimensional and site development requirements (mobile home park plan). The mobile home park plan shall show or propose all requirements listed in this section, and, in addition, all such requirements shall be complied with before a certificate of occupancy can be issued.
(4)
Minimum number of mobile home spaces. No park shall be permitted with less than 15 spaces.
(5)
Required lot (mobile home space) area. Well-defined mobile home spaces shall be provided, consisting of a minimum of 3,000 square feet for each space.
(6)
Yard requirements. Each space shall be at least 40 feet wide and clearly defined. There shall be at least a 15-foot side yard and a 15-foot clearance between mobile homes, including mobile homes parked end-to-end. No mobile home shall be located closer than 15 feet to any building within the park, within 20 feet of any exterior street or boundary line of the park.
(7)
Drainage. The park shall be located on a well-drained and properly graded site. Necessary site drainage improvements as approved by the city shall be provided.
(8)
Interior drives and walkways. All mobile home spaces shall abut upon a hard-surfaced drive no less than 20 feet in width. Interior drives must be not less than 20 feet in width and shall have unobstructed access to a public street or highway in accordance with ordinances of the city. Hard-surfaced walkways no less than three feet wide shall be provided from mobile home spaces to service buildings. All interior drives and walkways within the park shall be adequately maintained by the owner.
(9)
Off-drive parking. Each mobile home space shall be provided with at least two off-drive parking spaces, paved and adequately marked.
(10)
Signs. (See sign ordinance provisions herein) The following nonflashing and nonanimated signs are permitted under the conditions specified:
a.
Park identification signs. One park identification sign shall be permitted not to exceed 24 square feet in area for the purpose of denoting the name of the mobile home park and said sign shall not exceed six feet in height.
b.
Mobile home identification signs. One mobile home identification sign not exceeding one square foot in area shall be permitted for each mobile home. Such sign shall indicate only the name and address of the occupant of the mobile home.
c.
[Vehicular visibility.] No sign shall be located so as to impede vehicular visibility at any intersection of street lines with one another or the edge of driveways with street lines.
(11)
Improvement to trailers.
a.
No permanent addition of any kind shall be built onto or become a part of any mobile home.
b.
The owner of a mobile home park shall provide a concrete patio of at least two inches thick on the access side of the mobile home so as to lie beneath both doors, provided, however, such patio shall be a minimum of eight feet in width and a minimum of 20 feet in length.
(12)
Special conditions and safeguards. In recommending any planned mobile home park, the planning commission may attach special conditions and safeguards to protect both the occupants of the park and the occupants of surrounding property, including such matters as protection against noise, lights and dust. Where required to serve these ends, walls, plantings, surfacing or other natural or artificial means for protection may be required as a part of such special conditions on which the recommendation for a mobile home park is based. Failure to meet such conditions shall be grounds for refusal of issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(13)
General requirements.
a.
Minimum size of mobile homes. No mobile home shall be placed in a planned mobile home park which has less than 250 square feet of floor space and does not contain a built-in bathroom with water closet, lavatory and shower or tub which are in working condition.
b.
Water, sewerage and electricity. Each mobile home space shall be provided with and each mobile home connected to the sanitary sewerage and water supply systems of the city. Electrical outlets shall be provided as specified by the city building inspector.
c.
Lighting. All interior drives and walkways within the park shall be lighted at night with lighting as approved by the city.
d.
Refuse-collecting facilities. Individual refuse containers shall be used on each trailer site. Stands must be provided to hold the containers upright or buried.
e.
Recreation area. At least five percent of the gross land area shall be set aside for recreational use.
(14)
Existing parks. All existing mobile home parks in the city at the time of adoption of the ordinance from which this section is derived are required to comply with the following regulations:
a.
Existing mobile home parks. Existing parks which are determined to be suitably located but do not meet the requirements of this section shall be given one year to be brought into conformity with all provisions of this section.
(Ord. No. 20-2008, 12-8-08)
Secs. 94-505—94-514. - Reserved.
