ARTICLE IX. - TELEPHONE COMPANIES

Sec. 22-251. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Recurring local service revenues means:
(1)
Monthly charges for local exchange service, including:
a.
Charges for additional listings and joint users;
b.
The guarantee portion of the charge for semipublic pay station services;
c.
Charges for local message rate service, including mobile service local messages; and
d.
Subscriber station revenues from teletypewriter exchange service.
(2)
Charges for Morse transmission, signalling, data transmission, remote metering and supervisory control, where both terminal points are within the city limits.
(3)
All charges for local private line services, except audio and video program transmission services, where both terminals of the private line are within the city limits.
(Code 1969, § 13-61)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-252. - Occupational license tax on telephone companies operating within the city—Amount.
Telephone companies operating within the corporate limits of the city shall pay an occupational license tax on the recurring local service revenues received by the company from subscribers located within the city. Such amount is as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Code 1969, § 13-62; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 22-253. - Same—Payment.
The occupational license tax shall be paid in quarterly installments, each of which shall be due on or before the last day of the second month following the end of each calendar quarter and shall be based on taxable revenues billed during such calendar quarter. The first payment under this article shall be based on taxable revenues billed between the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived and the end of the calendar quarter in which such effective date falls. Any amount of license tax previously paid, and absorbed by the company, which is applicable to any period subsequent to the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived shall be credited against the amounts imposed in this article or by subsequent ordinance.
(Code 1969, § 13-63)
Secs. 22-254—22-280. - Reserved.
