ARTICLE VIII. - PRIVATE CLUBS

Sec. 6-191. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fixed salary means the amount of compensation paid any member, officer, agent or employee of a bona fide private club as may be fixed for him by its members at a prior annual meeting or by the governing body out of the general revenue of the club, and shall not include a commission on any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages. For the purpose of this definition, tips or gratuities which are added to the bills under club regulations shall not be considered as profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
Private club means any nonprofit association organized under the laws of this state which:
(1)
Has been in existence at least one year prior to the filing of its application for a license to be issued pursuant to this chapter;
(2)
Has at least 75 regular dues-paying members;
(3)
Owns, hires or leases building space within a building for the reasonable use of its members with:
a.
Suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment; and
b.
A sufficient number of employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guests; and
(4)
Has no member, officer, agent or employee directly or indirectly receiving, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages beyond a fixed salary.
(Code 1982, § 9-2-81)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-192. - Compliance with applicable regulations.
Private clubs may sell and dispense alcoholic beverages upon compliance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the city governing the sale of such beverages and upon payment of such license fees and taxes as may be required by the existing ordinances, rules and regulations of the city.
(Code 1982, § 9-2-82)
Sec. 6-193. - Exemptions from requirement for food service facilities.
Veterans' organizations, fraternal organizations and other nonprofit organizations regulated by this article currently having tax-exempt status under either the United States Internal Revenue Code or the state income tax law shall not be required to operate a food establishment serving prepared food. However, any such organization selling or dispensing alcoholic beverages shall be subject to all ordinance regulations dealing with general licensing and consumption on the premises establishments.
(Code 1982, § 9-2-83)
Sec. 6-194. - Investigative and administrative fee.
Each application for a license under this article shall be accompanied by payment for the full amount of the license fee, together with payment in an amount as may be required by the ordinances, rules and regulations of the city to defray investigative and administrative costs. If the application is denied and the license refused, or if the applicant withdraws the application prior to its being issued, the license fee shall be refunded, but the investigative and administrative fees shall be retained. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, the license fee shall not be refunded to any applicant that sold, or offered to sell, alcoholic beverages during the license year at issue.
(Code 1982, § 9-2-84; Ord. No. 692 , pt. VIII, 11-17-15; Ord. No. 801 , pt. XXVIII, 9-21-21)
Sec. 6-195. - Hours of sale generally.
The sale and delivery of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises at a private club shall be subject to the hours of sale regulations in section 6-152.
(Code 1982, § 9-2-85; Ord. No. 754 , pt. XXV, 10-16-18)
Sec. 6-196. - Sunday sales.
(a)
Licensed private clubs deriving a minimum of 50 percent of their total annual gross food and beverage sales from the sale of prepared meals or food are authorized to apply for a Sunday sales permit to sell and serve alcoholic beverages, malt beverages and wine by the drink.
(b)
Applicants for a Sunday sales permit shall complete a form and affidavit furnished by the finance director. An audit may be required at any time to ensure compliance.
(c)
All applications for annual permit renewal shall be filed with the finance director not later than November 30 of the year preceding the license year for which the permit is to be issued. All persons applying for renewal are subject to audit prior to renewal to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(d)
Sunday sales permits are granted for the full calendar year or for the number of months remaining in the calendar year. The permit fee shall be prorated based on the number of months remaining in the calendar year; partial months shall be counted as a full month. Fees are not refundable, and permits shall not be transferable.
(Code 1982, § 9-2-87; Ord. No. 754 , pt. XXVI, 10-16-18; Ord. No. 801 , pt. XXIX, 9-21-21)
Sec. 6-197. - Employees.
The following regulations shall apply to all private clubs holding a license for consumption on the premises:
(1)
An employee shall meet the same character requirements as set forth in this chapter for the licensee, except for the residency requirements.
(2)
No person shall be employed by an establishment holding a license under this article until such person has been fingerprinted or cleared by the chief of police and a permit issued indicating that such person is eligible for this employment.
(3)
The permit issued to a person under this section shall be either of the following:
a.
An alcoholic beverage permit, which shall be issued only to a person who is 18 years of age or older and who sells, serves or dispenses alcoholic beverages;
b.
A nonalcoholic beverage permit, which shall be issued to a person whose employment includes but is not limited to host, hostess, doorman or bouncer.
(4)
No permit shall be issued until such time as a signed application has been filed with the police department and a search of the criminal record of the applicant completed. The application shall include but shall not be limited to the name, date of birth and prior arrest record of the applicant, though the fact of an arrest record shall be used for investigative purposes only, and shall give rise to no presumption or inference of guilt. Due to the inclusion of arrest information, these applications shall be regarded as confidential and shall not be produced for public inspection without a court order.
(5)
The chief of police shall have a complete and exhaustive search made relative to any police record of the person fingerprinted or cleared. If there is no record of a violation of this article, the chief of police shall issue a permit to the employee, stating that the person is eligible for employment. If it is found that the person fingerprinted or cleared is not eligible for employment, the chief of police shall notify the employer that this person is not eligible for employment.
(6)
It shall be the duty of all persons holding any license to sell alcoholic beverages to file with the chief of police the name of the establishment, the license number and a list of all employees, with their home addresses and home telephone numbers.
(7)
All permits issued through administrative error or through an error in completion of a background investigation may be terminated by the chief of police or the finance director.
(8)
This section shall not be construed to include employees whose duties are limited solely to those of busboy, cook or dishwasher.
(9)
No licensee shall allow any employee required to hold a permit to work on the licensed premises unless the licensee has on file, on the premises, the current, valid permit of each such employee.
(10)
If any permit holder leaves the employ of a licensed establishment, the licensee shall immediately surrender the permit to the police department.
(11)
All permits issued under this section remain the property of the city, and shall be produced for inspection upon the demand of any officer of the police department.
(Code 1982, § 9-2-86; Ord. No. 423, 8-20-96; Ord. No. 801 , pt. XXX, 9-21-21)
Sec. 6-198. - Use of open areas, patios or decks.
Consumption or sale of beer, wine or distilled spirits in open areas or on decks or patios is not permitted unless a private club holding a license for consumption of beer, wine or distilled spirits on the premises complies with the following regulations:
(1)
The open area, patio or deck must be enclosed in a manner that directs ingress and egress by the public through a single entrance, which entrance shall be under the control of the licensee.
(2)
The open area, patio or deck shall be enclosed by a structure at least 42 inches in height as measured from the floor of the open area, patio or deck. Such structure must meet all building code requirements of the city.
(3)
Any license holder desiring to obtain approval for open area, patio or deck sales must submit to the city building inspector a complete set of plans before approval for such sales may be granted. All plans and final construction pursuant to such plans shall meet the requirements of this chapter, the health code, the fire code and any other codes applicable to such structures. A written approval from the city building inspector, city finance director, county health department and county fire department must be provided to the city before approval of any open area, patio or deck sales.
(4)
Any structure or area set aside for open area, patio or deck sales shall not contain a number of square feet that represents an amount greater than 40 percent of the existing seating area of the establishment.
(5)
Loudspeakers or other amplifiers of sound shall not be permitted on open areas, patios or decks.
(Code 1982, § 9-2-88; Ord. No. 365, § III, 7-10-92; Ord. No. 801 , pt. XXXI, 9-21-21)
Secs. 6-199—6-215. - Reserved.
