Subpart A - CHARTER[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Charter of the City of Chamblee as set forth in 1935 Ga. Laws, page 976. Amendments to the Charter are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citation to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1(a), the terms "recorder" and "recorder's court" have been stricken and the terms "municipal court judge" and "municipal court" have been inserted in lieu thereof throughout the Charter and Code of Ordinances without notation.

[ARTICLE 1. - IN GENERAL]

Section 1. - Old acts consolidated; city incorporated; name.
On and after the passage and approval of this act, the act of 1908, approved August 17, 1908, found in 1908 Ga. Laws, page 542, creating a charter for the Town of Chamblee in DeKalb County, and the act of August 1, 1922, found in 1922 Ga. Laws, pages 631—638, inclusive, amending said charter and creating a new charter for the City of Chamblee, and the act of August 1, 1929, found in 1929 Ga. Laws, pages 943—945, inclusive, and each and all of said acts and each and all the acts amendatory thereof be, and the same are, hereby revised, consolidated, amended and superseded by this act, and a new charter for said City of Chamblee, DeKalb County, Georgia, is hereby created. The corporate name of said municipality to be "City of Chamblee".
Section 2. - Boundaries.
The territory embraced within the corporate limits of said City of Chamblee shall be as fixed by the said act of 1908, 1908 Ga. Laws, page 542, and by the act of 1922, 1922 Ga. Laws, pages 631—638, inclusive, and with the additional territory embraced and included in this act. That is to say, by the said act of 1908, aforesaid, the center of the passenger depot of the Southern Railway Company, at Chamblee, Georgia, was declared to be the center of said incorporated municipality and the corporate limits to be located one-half (½) mile distant therefrom in each and every direction. By act of 1922, aforesaid, 1922 Ga. Laws, pages 631—638, inclusive, said limits as previously fixed were confirmed and in addition thereto the following territory was made a part of the incorporated area and territory of said municipality, to wit: Beginning at the line of corporate limits as fixed by act of 1908, aforesaid, near Prospect Church, and running in an easterly direction along the north side of Peachtree Road to Shallowford Road; and thence along the east side of Shallowford Road one (1) mile, more or less, to a point in line with the south side of Eighth Street; thence to and along the south side of Eighth Street to a point in line with westernmost part of the overhead bridge of the Southern Railway at point where Peachtree Road crosses said railway about one (1) mile, more or less, southwesterly from said railway station at Chamblee; thence running past said bridge to northern side of a public road parallel to said railway; and thence running along the northwestern side of said public road to the corporate limits of Chamblee as fixed by said act of 1908. Said annexation as made in 1922 was not clear and definite but was intended to embrace the territory as herein set forth. Said territory as fixed by said act of 1908 and as fixed by said act of 1922, as next above set out, is hereby declared to be the incorporated territory of said municipality, and in addition thereto, the following territory which is hereby made a part of said corporate territory of said municipality, to wit: Beginning at a point on the south side of Eighth Street, at the corporate line of said municipality as it existed prior to this act, said point being at or near the east line of land lot 271 of the 18th district of DeKalb County, and running thence westerly and northwesterly along the south side of Eighth Street or old Nancey's Creek Church Road to the south line of land lot 278; thence continuing west on the south line of land lot 278 to the west line of said land lot 278; thence north along the west line of land lot 278, 3,000 feet, more or less, to the northwest corner of said land lot 278; thence east along the north line of said land lot 278 to the corporate limits of said municipality as existing prior to this act.
Section 2.1. - Boundary between Cities of Chamblee and Doraville defined.
(a)
The corporate limit line between the City of Chamblee and the City of Doraville is hereby located and defined as commencing at an iron pipe marker on the original south line of land lot 310 of the 18th land district of DeKalb County where said land lot line intersects the present corporate limit line of the City of Chamblee, and where said land lot line also intersects the southeastern side of a paved public road known as Shallowford Road (also known as Decatur Road), said beginning point being 368 feet west of a United States government corner marker, and thence running northwesterly 1404 feet to an iron pin marker at the point where the northern side of Old Peachtree Road intersects the southeastern right-of-way line of the Southern Railway.
(b)
The corporate limit line of the City of Chamblee, as it runs along the northern side of Peachtree Road, and as mentioned in said former acts defining the corporate limits of the City of Chamblee, also intersects the southeastern right-of-way line of said Southern Railway at the iron pin marker last above referred to. Said boundary line was surveyed and marked by J. R. Bracewell and Associates, Inc., and a plat showing the location of said line as herein established was made by J. R. Bracewell March 23, 1948.
(1949 Ga. Laws, page 567)
Editor's note— The tracts of land described in sections 2.1 through 2.8 further define or add additional territory to the city. These acts are all amendatory to the Charter, but were given no section number designations as enacted. The numbering system used for their inclusion was provided by the codifier to maintain the integrity of the original Charter numbering.
Section 2.2. - 1949 annexation.
(a)
The act of August 17, 1908, found in 1908 Ga. Laws, page 542, creating a charter for the Town of Chamblee in DeKalb County, and all acts amendatory thereof, and the act of 1935, approved March 28, 1935, and found in 1935 Ga. Laws, pages 976—994, both inclusive, creating a new charter for the City of Chamblee, and all acts amendatory thereof, and all acts amended by said several acts, be, and the same are hereby amended so as to add to and include within the corporate limits of the City of Chamblee the following described territory, to wit:
Beginning on the northeastern side of the paved road known as the Chamblee and Dunwoody Public Road at the point where the original circular city limit line of the City of Chamblee (formerly Town of Chamblee), as defined by the act approved August 17, 1908, intersects the northeastern right-of-way line of said paved public road and running thence in a northwestern direction along the northeastern right-of-way line of said public road to a point sufficient in length to extend the original one-half (½) mile radius from the center of the Town of Chamblee as provided in said act of 1908, for an additional length of 1200 feet; thence turning to a southwesterly direction and crossing said Chamblee and Dunwoody Public Road on a curved line, and continuing on a curved line which at all points along its course shall remain a uniform distance of 1200 feet distant from the original circular corporate limit line as aforesaid, or 3840 feet distant from the center of said original Town of Chamblee as prescribed by said act of 1908, until reaching a point 400 feet northerly from the northwestern right-of-way line of the new state highway known as "The Industrial Boulevard" (it being a highway which leaves Peachtree Road at the western limit of the City of Chamblee and traverses the northwestern section of said city, and proceeds in a northeasterly direction to the City of Doraville); thence running southwestwardly and at a uniform distance of 400 feet northwestwardly from the northwestern right-of-way line of said new highway to the north line of land lot 278, said north line of said land lot being a corporate limit line of the City of Chamblee; thence turning east and following a straight east course to the southwestern side of Johnson Ferry Road; thence turning southeastwardly along the southwest side of said Johnson Ferry Road and continuing along the southwest side of the same to point of intersection of said side of said Johnson Ferry Road with the northwestern side of that branch of Peachtree Road which lies northwest of the mainline tracks of the Southern Railway Company, thence continuing in the same course across said branch of Peachtree Road to the southeastern right-of-way line of said branch of Peachtree Road; thence following along the south-eastern right-of-way line of said branch of Peachtree Road, and running in a northeasterly direction, to the southwestern corporate limit line of the Town of Chamblee as set up in circular form by the act of 1908, as aforesaid; thence turning northward and running in a circular course along the original circular limit line of the Town of Chamblee, as established by said act of 1908, and continuing along said original circular limit line of formerly the Town of Chamblee, now the City of Chamblee, to the point of beginning on the northeastern side of said Chamblee and Dunwoody Public Road. All the territory included within the lines set up in this section as defining the area annexed by this act is hereby declared to be a part of the corporate area of the City of Chamblee.
(b)
The road described in the 26th line of section 2 of the said act of 1935 (Acts of 1935, pages 976—994, both inclusive) in the words "thence running past said bridge to northern side of a public road parallel to said railway" is the same road as described in this act as "that branch of Peachtree Road which lies northwest of the main-line tracks of the Southern Railway Company."
(1949 Ga. Laws, page 573)
Section 2.3. - 1950 annexation.
The act of August 17, 1908, found in 1908 Ga. Laws, page 542, creating a charter for the Town of Chamblee, in DeKalb County, and all acts amendatory thereof, and the act of 1935, approved March 28, 1935, and found in 1935 Ga. Laws, pages 976—994, both inclusive, and all acts amendatory thereof, and all acts amended by said several acts, be and the same are, hereby amended so as to add to and include within the corporate limits of the City of Chamblee the following described territory, to wit:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in land lots numbers 308 and 309 of the 18th district of DeKalb County, Georgia, containing 12 acres, more or less, and more particularly described as beginning at a fixed corner at the southeastern right-of-way line of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard where the same intersects the original east line of land lot 308 of said district (said corner being 612.1 feet south of the original northeast corner of said land lot); running thence southwest along said southeastern right-of-way line of said Peachtree Industrial Boulevard 350 feet, more or less, to the point where said right- of-way line intersects the northern part of the half-mile circular corporate limit line of the City of Chamblee as defined by the previous acts of the General Assembly of Georgia, and set out above; thence running eastwardly and southeastwardly, following said previously defined corporate limit line a distance of 1200 feet, more or less, to the point where said previously fixed corporate limit line intersects the east line of a tract of 18.25 acres shown on a plat of the property of Jesse Lawson, made by C. R. Roberts, civil engineer, dated October 3, 1949, and recorded in plat book 16, page 156 of records of plats in the office of the clerk of the Superior Court of DeKalb County, Georgia[;] thence running north along the east line of said 18.25 acre tract a distance of five [hundred] (500) feet, more or less, to an iron pin corner marking a turn in the lines of said tract; thence, after making an interior angle of 90 degrees, four (4) minutes, running in a westerly direction along the line of said 18.25 acre tract a distance of [402.2] feet to a fixed corner marked by an iron pin at a turn in the line of said tract; thence, after making an exterior angle of 269 degrees 58 minutes, running in a northerly direction along the line of said 18.25 acre tract, 340 feet to a fixed corner marked by an iron pin; thence, after making an interior angle of 89 degrees 59 minutes, running in a westerly direction along a line of said 18.25 acre tract a distance of 193.2 feet to an iron pin corner on the southeast side of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard; thence southwest along the southeastern right-of-way line of said Peachtree Industrial Boulevard 381.7 feet to the point of beginning. Said record of said plat is referred to.
(1950 Ga. Laws, page 2716)
Editor's note— The bracketed reference to [402.2] above corrects a typographical error in the original act which read: "a distance of four hundred two and two tenths (40.2) feet …."
Section 2.4. - 1950 additional annexation.
The act of 1908, approved August 17, 1908, and found in 1908 Ga. Laws, page 542, creating a charter for the Town of Chamblee in DeKalb County, and the act of 1935, approved March 28, 1935, and found in 1935 Ga. Laws, pages 976—994, inclusive, creating a new charter for the City of Chamblee, and all acts amended by said acts, and all acts amendatory of said several acts be, and the same are, hereby amended as in this act provided, to wit:
The following described territory shall be a part of the corporate territory of said City of Chamblee, said territory being more particularly described as follows: Commencing at the point on the eastern side of the Chamblee and Dunwoody Public Road where the extended corporate limit line of said municipality as extended and defined by the act approved February 15, 1949, (Ga. Laws, Extra Session 1948 and Regular Session 1949, pages 573—577, inclusive) leaves said side of said road and crosses said road, said point being in the northwestern portion of land lot 308 of the 18th land district of DeKalb County, and running thence northeasterly and easterly along a curved line which is located a uniform distance of 1200 feet northerly from the northern portion of the circular corporate limit line as fixed for said municipality by said act of 1908 and referred to in said later acts, and for a distance of approximately 2800 feet and to the east original land lot line of land lot 324 of said district; thence south along the east lines of land lot 324 aforesaid, and along the east line of land lot 308 of said district, a distance of 1000 feet, more or less, to the southeastern right-of-way line of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard; thence southwest along said southeastern right-of-way line of said Peachtree Industrial Boulevard 400 feet, more or less, to the original circular corporate limit line defined by said act of 1908, and the other acts referred to herein; thence running westerly and southwesterly along said previously defined circular corporate limit line 1600 feet, more or less to the eastern right-of-way line of said Chamblee and Dunwoody Public Road; thence northerly and northwesterly along the eastern and northeastern right-of-way line of said Chamblee and Dunwoody Public Road to the point of beginning.
(1950 Ga. Laws, page 2807)
Section 2.5. - 1958 annexation.
The act of August 17, 1908, found in 1908 Ga. Laws, page 542, creating a charter for the Town of Chamblee, in DeKalb County, and all acts amendatory thereof, and the act of 1935, approved March 28, 1935, found in 1935 Ga. Laws, pages 976—994, inclusive, creating a new charter for the City of Chamblee, and all acts amendatory thereof, and all acts amended by said several acts be, and the same are, hereby amended in the following respects:
By annexing to the corporate limits of the City of Chamblee the following additional territory, to wit: All that tract or parcel of land lying in DeKalb County, Georgia, lying between the present western and northwestern boundary or corporate limit line of the City of Chamblee, the eastern boundary or corporate limit line of the Village of North Atlanta, the northern side of Sexton Road, and the northeastern side of the Chamblee and Dunwoody Public Road, and being more particularly described as follows: Beginning on the northeastern side of said Chamblee and Dunwoody Public Road at the point where the present northwestern corporate limit line of the City of Chamblee intersects the northeastern side of said Chamblee and Dunwoody Public Road, and running thence northwesterly along the northeastern side of said Chamblee and Dunwoody Public Road a distance of 200 feet, more or less, to a point where the northern side of Sexton Road, if extended in a straight course, would intersect the northeastern side of the said Chamblee and Dunwoody Public Road; thence running westwardly along said extended line to the northern side of said Sexton Road, and continuing thence in a westerly, southwesterly, northwesterly and westerly direction along the northern, northeastern, and at times northwestern side of said Sexton Road, and following the curvature thereof, to the point where the northern side of Sexton Road intersects the eastern corporate limit line of the Village of North Atlanta; thence running south along the eastern corporate limit line of said Village of North Atlanta, and also along the west land lot lines of land lots 307, 300, and 278 a distance of 6500 feet, more or less, to the point where the present corporate limit line of the City of Chamblee, as defined by previous act, intersects the north and south line next above described; thence running northeasterly, northerly, and again northeasterly along the western or northwestern corporate limit line of the City of Chamblee, as defined by previous acts, to the point of beginning on the northeastern side of the Chamblee and Dunwoody Public Road. Said beginning point being in the northwestern part of land lot 308 of the 18th land district.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 3318)
Editor's note— Section 2 of 1958 Ga. Laws, page 3318, provided for a referendum to be held on the proposed annexation. 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2642, sec. 9, ratified the annexation of the above tract pursuant to the result of the referendum. Neither of those sections has been included in this codification.
Section 2.6. - 1967 annexation.
An act creating a new charter for the City of Chamblee, approved March 28, 1935 (1935 Ga. Laws, pages 944—976), as amended, is hereby amended by annexing to the said corporate limits of said city all of the following described property to wit:
All that tract of land lying and being in land lot 277 of the 18th land district of DeKalb County, Georgia, described as beginning at the point where the southern right-of-way line of Peachtree Industrial Boulevard intersects the east line of said land lot, at the present corporate limit line of the City of Chamblee, and running south 178.9 feet, more or less, along said land lot line to the northern right-of-way line of the Southern Railway Company; thence running southwesterly along said northern right-of-way line of said Southern Railway Company 1120 feet, more or less, to an iron pin located 83 feet eastwardly along said right-of-way line from the point where said railway right-of-way line intersects the southern right-of-way line of said Peachtree Industrial Boulevard; running thence north 46 degrees one (1) minute west 150 feet, more or less, to the northern right-of-way line of said Peachtree Industrial Boulevard; thence running northeastwardly along the northern right-of-way line of said Peachtree Industrial Boulevard 1250 feet, more or less, to the present corporate limit line of the City of Chamblee; running thence southerly along the present corporate limit line of the City of Chamblee to the point of beginning. Said beginning point being on the line between properties formerly known as the T. A. Hutcheson property on the east thereof and the property formerly known as the B. T. and W. O. Pierce property on the west thereof.
(1967 Ga. Laws, page 2355)
Section 2.7. - 1978 annexation.
Pursuant to the authority contained in the act of 1966 (1966 Ga. Laws, pages 409—413; sections 69-904 through 69-912, Ga. Code Ann. [O.C.G.A. §§ 36-36-22—36-36-29]), the unincorporated tract of land located at the Shallowford Park and near the intersection of Shallowford Road and Shallowford Terrace is hereby annexed to the existing corporate limits of the City of Chamblee, said tract being more particularly described as follows:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in land lots 268 and 281 of the 18th district of DeKalb County, Georgia and being more particularly described as follows: Beginning at an iron pin located on the easterly right-of-way line of Shallowford Road 429.60 feet as measured from the northeasterly intersection formed by the southeasterly right-of-way of Shallowford Road and the northeasterly right-of-way of Whispering Hills Drive (Whispering Hills Drive being a 60 foot right-of-way and as measured along the southeasterly and easterly right-of-way line of Shallowford Road; running thence north 22° 13′ 35″ east on a chord line of 80.13 feet (having an arc of 80.15 feet) and along the easterly right-of-way line of Shallowford Road to a one-half inch (½″) reinforced rod; running thence north 10° 36′ 21″ east and along the easterly right-of-way line of Shallowford Road a distance of 52.91 feet to a one-half inch (½″) reinforced rod; running thence north 20° 30′ 20″ east and along the easterly right-of-way line of Shallowford Road a distance of 103.80 feet to a one-half inch (½″) reinforced rod; running thence north 08° 29′ 25″ east and along the easterly right-of-way line of Shallowford Road a distance of 52.09 feet to a one-half inch (½″) reinforced rod; running thence north 09° 39′ 16″ east along a chord of 127.96 feet (having an arc of 128.02 feet) and along the easterly right-of-way line of Shallowford Road to a one-half inch (½″) reinforced rod; running thence north 06° 33′ 43″ east and along the easterly right-of-way line of Shallowford Road a distance of 71.95 feet to an iron pin; running thence south 62° 44′ 57″ east a distance of 672.97 feet to an iron pin; running thence south 26° 34′ 23″ west a distance of 444.55 feet to an iron pin; running thence north 63° 03′ 04″ west a distance of 124.62 feet to a one-half [inch] (½″) reinforced rod; running thence north 66° 16′ 27″ west a distance of 439.22 feet to an iron pin and the point of beginning; said aforedescribed property being in accordance with boundary survey for the City of Chamblee dated August 15, 1977 prepared by Donald W. Harkleroad and Associates, Inc., Engineers and Land Surveyors and consisting of 6.352 acres.
Also, to include that portion of Shallowford Road bordering between the existing city limits of Chamblee and western boundary line of the 6.352 acre tract, and also to include the eastern half of the right-of-way of Shallowford Road immediately adjacent to the western boundary of the above described 6.352 acre tract (said western boundary running from the above described point of beginning in a northeasterly direction to the iron pin at the northwestern corner of said 6.352 acre tract), said eastern portion of the right-of-way of Shallowford Road varying in width from approximately 40 feet to approximately 50 feet and being approximately the same length as the western boundary of said 6.352 acre tract, said eastern portion of the right-of-way of Shallowford Road further being that area of land between the western boundary of said 6.352 acre tract and the city limits line between the City of Chamblee and DeKalb County as shown by the boundary survey for the City of Chamblee dated August 15, 1977 prepared by Donald W. Harkleroad and Associates, Inc., Engineers and Land Surveyors.
Said tract of land shall constitute a part of the lands within the corporate limits of the City of Chamblee as completely and fully as if the limits had been marked and defined by special act of the general assembly.
(Ord. No. 253, 12-8-78)
Editor's note— The above section describes a tract of land annexed to the city by ordinance. Although the ordinance does not amend the city Charter, its provisions have been included here at the editor's discretion for the user's ease of access when researching various annexations of the city.
Section 2.8. - 1978 additional annexation.
Pursuant to the authority contained in the act of 1966 (1966 Ga. Laws, pages 409—413; sections 69-904 through 69-912, Ga. Code Ann. [O.C.G.A. §§ 36-36-22—36-36-29]), the unincorporated tract of land located at the northeast corner of Eighth Street and New Peachtree Road is hereby annexed to the existing corporate limits of the City of Chamblee, said tract being more particularly described as follows:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in land lot 277 of the 18th district, DeKalb County, Georgia, as shown by plat of survey by S.E. Mahan dated June 3, 1978 and revised August 25, 1978 and being more particularly described as follows: Beginning at a point, said point being the intersection formed by the southern side of Eighth Street, and by the land lot line formed by the eastern side of land lot 277 and the adjacent western side of land lot 278; from said Point of Beginning, thence north 0 degrees 7 minutes west along said land lot line 742.6 feet to a point; thence in a southwesterly direction along the most northern part of the Southern Railway right-of-way 446.1 feet to a point; thence south 47 degrees 22 minutes west along a course (chord) 645.1 feet to a point; thence north 88 degrees, 5 minutes east 339.0 feet to a point; thence north 84 degrees 56 minutes east a distance of 200.8 feet; thence north 87 degrees 06 minutes east a distance of 143 feet; thence south 80 degrees 13 minutes east a distance of 88.3 feet to the Point of Beginning.
Said tract of land shall constitute a part of the lands within the corporate limits of the City of Chamblee as completely and fully as if the limits had been marked and defined by special act of the general assembly.
(Ord. No. 254, 12-8-78)
Editor's note— The above section describes a tract of land annexed to the city by ordinance. Although the ordinance does not amend the city Charter, its provisions have been included here at the editor's discretion for the user's ease of reference when researching various annexations of the city.
Section 3. - Ad valorem taxes; powers; rate.
Said City of Chamblee shall have power to levy, assess, and collect ad valorem taxes for all ordinary, current, or otherwise legal expenses of government upon all property within its territorial limits, or taxable by it under provisions of general law, not to exceed eight (8) mills upon each dollar of assess[ed] valuations. Among the ordinary and legal purposes for which such taxes may be levied, collected, and expended by the municipality shall be that of furnishing social security insurance and protection to its employees and other persons eligible for such protection. Said municipality shall likewise have power and authority to expend other general funds for the same purpose whether raised by taxation or otherwise.
(1959 Ga. Laws, page 2642; 1968 Ga. Laws, page 2715)
Section 4. - Power to license and tax businesses.
Said municipality shall have power to fix by ordinance from time to time, and to alter and amend the same, license fees or taxes upon businesses and occupations, except, in such instances as such tax or fee or charge may be forbidden by general law, and to provide by ordinance when, how and in what manner payable. It shall have authority to adopt ordinances for the enforcement of such tax ordinances and shall have authority to adopt ordinances for the purpose of inflicting fines, penalties and punishments for violations of such ordinances.
Section 5. - Additional powers as to taxation.
Said municipality shall have power and authority to adopt such objects and classifications of subjects of taxation, and enforce the same, as may be now allowed by general law or may hereafter be allowed by general law.
Section 6. - Power to contract and incur debt.
Said City of Chamblee shall have power to contract and be contracted with in its said corporate name, to incur debt by borrowing money, to secure the same by appropriate evidence thereof. All within the limitations and restrictions of general law.
Section 7. - Expenditure powers.
Said City of Chamblee shall have power to expend the money of the municipality for all lawful purposes.
Section 8. - Powers pertaining to property.
Said City of Chamblee shall have power to own, hold, purchase or receive, improve, sell, lease, mortgage, pledge or dispose of property, real or personal, and any interest or estate therein, within or without the limits of the city when necessary for governmental purposes.
Section 9. - Condemnation of property; powers.
Said municipality shall have power to condemn property, real or personal, or any easement, interest, estate or use therein, either within or without the limits of the city, for present or future public use. Such condemnation shall be made and effected upon the same terms and conditions as provided for in the general laws of the State of Georgia with reference to the condemnation of private property for public use, or as may be provided by any future laws, amendments or changes of such laws having reference to the condemnation of private property for public uses.
Section 10. - Power to issue bonds.
Said City of Chamblee shall have power to issue and sell interest bearing negotiable bonds of the municipality for the purposes of purchasing lands, buildings, erecting buildings, improving property, purchasing equipment, purchasing improvements, paying for condemned property taken for public use, whenever necessary and authorized by general law and whenever the provisions of the general laws are complied with, and when done for the purpose of properly furnishing said municipality and the citizens and inhabitants thereof with proper health and sanitation facilities, including water, water systems and supplies, sewers and sewer systems, disposal plants, electric and power service, streets and sidewalks, fire protection, firefighting equipment and facilities. Such bonds may be authorized from time to time or issued from time to time, as the necessity may exist; but such bonds shall not be issued in any case except within the restrictions of general law, nor shall any bonds be issued for any purpose except as authorized by general law and the constitution of this state and of this charter or subsequent amendment; and in all cases such bonds to be issued only after compliance with general law and the constitution of this state as to purpose, amount, elections and procedure.
Section 11. - Power to own and operate cemeteries.
Said municipality shall have power to own and operate cemeteries for the burial of the dead. It shall have the right to prescribe by ordinance reasonable regulations pertaining to the operation of cemeteries by others, and to grant or refuse, as the public good may require, permission to others to operate such cemeteries within its limits.
Section 12. - Nuisance abatement powers.
Said municipality shall have power to abate nuisances in the manner authorized by general law pertaining to the abatement of nuisances by incorporated municipalities, and in the manner and subject to the restrictions of general law as now provided, or as may be hereafter enacted.
Section 13. - Power to hold property; administer trusts.
Said municipality shall have power to take and hold property of every kind, either within or without the state upon trust; and to administer trusts for the public benefit.
Section 14. - Power pertaining to utilities.
Said municipality shall have power to make contracts with any firm, person or corporation, private or municipal, or with any public service corporation, or with any association, for furnishing or supplying said municipality and its inhabitants with public utility services of all kinds, or to contract in like manner for equipment for supplying such services, including the right to rent, lease, purchase or condemn with reference to such utilities.
Section 15. - Power over sewers, drains, disposal plants; sanitary tax authorized.
Said municipality shall have the power to construct, repair, and maintain sewers, drains and disposal plants as shall be necessary for proper sanitation, to collect and dispose of garbage and refuse matter, and contract for, license and regulate the collection and disposal of garbage and refuse matter. Said municipality shall have power to pass all reasonable by-laws, ordinances and resolutions regulating said matters or in any wise appertaining thereto; said municipality shall have authority to levy a sanitary tax against each owner of each parcel of improved real property within its corporate limits which is improved with either a dwelling or a business structure. The mayor and council may vary, change, alter, lower or raise the sanitary tax from year to year.
(1953 Ga. Laws, page 2447; 1957 Ga. Laws, page 2677; 1963 Ga. Laws, page 2701; 1965 Ga. Laws, page 2780; 1968 Ga. Laws, page 2715; Ord. No. 264, 2-12-82)
Section 15.1. - Levy of sanitary tax.
It shall be the duty of the governing body of the City of Chamblee to exercise a sound and legal discretion in determining and levying sanitary taxes pursuant to and in conformity with the city charter as amended by this ordinance and in conformity to general laws and the constitution of this state.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2701; 1965 Ga. Laws, page 2780; Ord. No. 264, 2-12-82)
Editor's note— The text of the above section is derived from Sec. 2 of the 1963 and 1965 Acts. The wording was reenacted by home rule ordinance.
Section 16. - Power pertaining to hazards on private property.
The mayor and council shall have authority to provide by ordinance reasonable regulations for requiring owners or occupiers of property, also vacant property, to keep such property free of rubbish and undergrowth, waste or other materials dangerous to health, limb or property, or constituting a fire hazard, also dead or dangerous trees; and in case the owner or person responsible shall fail or refuse, after reasonable notice, to correct such condition, the municipality shall have the right to correct the same and tax the reasonable cost against the owner or person responsible, as the case may be.
Section 17. - Powers pertaining to streets.
The maintenance of the public streets, roads, lanes, and highways in said municipality which constitute a part of the public roads, streets, or highways of the State of Georgia, or the county in which said municipality is located, or of the state highway department, shall not devolve upon said municipality until such time as the same may be authorized by a future express legislative enactment, expressly declaring it to be one of the duties of said municipality to maintain such roads, streets, or highways. Said municipality shall have the power and authority however to police and patrol so much of said streets, lanes, roads, and highways as are located within the corporate limits of said municipality, regulate the speed and uses of said streets, roads, lanes, and highways, preserve good order thereon, and protect life, limb and property thereon. Said municipality shall have the power to open, use, and extend its jurisdiction over all lanes, streets, roads and highways therein as are not a part of the public system of roads, streets and highways of the state, state highway department or county as aforesaid and to make all reasonable and necessary rules, ordinances and resolutions respecting the same and their control and uses. The mayor and council shall, however, have authority to grade, regrade, pave, repave, build, rebuild, or otherwise improve sidewalks within the corporate limits of the municipality along the public roads, streets, and thoroughfares therein without being under any duty to repair or maintain or improve any of that portion of such streets, roads, highways, or thoroughfares not occupied by sidewalks but devoted to vehicular traffic.
(1946 Ga. Laws, page 422)
Section 17.1. - Sidewalk improvements; notice; protests; petitions.
Whenever the governing body of said municipality shall deem it necessary to grade, regrade, pave, repave, build, rebuild, or otherwise improve any sidewalk as above provided, and the expense thereof cannot be paid from general current funds of the year, or in the discretion of said body should not be so paid, said governing body may by ordinance or resolution declare such improvement necessary to be done, and publish such resolution once a week for two (2) weeks, consecutively, in the newspaper in which the sheriff's advertisements in the county in which said municipality is located are published, and therein give notice of the intention to assess the costs and expenses of said improvement as herein provided, and if the owners of a majority of the lineal feet of frontage of the lands abutting on said sidewalk shall not within 15 days after date of publication of the last issue of said newspaper carrying advertisement of said resolution file with either the mayor or the clerk of said municipality their protest in writing, protesting against said improvement, said governing body shall have authority to cause said improvement to be made, and to contract therefor, and to make assessments and fix liens as provided for herein. Provided, however, that if the owners of a majority of the lineal feet of frontage of the land liable to assessment for such improvements shall petition the governing body, and therein make reference to this provision of this act, and designate by general description the improvement to be undertaken, and designate the roads or streets or highways along which same to be located, and between what points, and designate the side or sides of roads, streets, or highways along which same to be made, it shall then be the duty of the governing body to proceed, as hereinafter provided to cause said improvement to be made in accordance with the prayers of said petition and their own best judgment, and in such cases it shall not be necessary to pass the resolution or ordinance hereinbefore mentioned. The petition shall be lodged with the clerk of the municipality who shall investigate the sufficiency thereof and submit the same to the governing body, and certify the result of his investigation.
(1946 Ga. Laws, page 422)
Editor's note— Sections 17.1 through 17.13 were enacted by 1946 Ga. Laws, page 422, as amendments to the Charter without designation as to numbering or location.
Section 17.2. - Same; assessment of costs; basis.
Each lot or parcel of land abutting upon said sidewalk shall be charged on a basis of lineal foot frontage with an equal rate per foot of frontage with its just pro rata of the entire cost of said improvement; provided however that the cost of said sidewalks shall be charged entirely to the lots or parcels of land abutting upon the sides of the streets, roads, or highways upon which the same are located.
(1946 Ga. Laws, page 422)
Section 17.3. - Same; ordinances and resolutions; installation of utilities.
Whenever the petition provided for in section two (2) of this act [section 17.1 hereof] is presented, or whenever said governing body shall have determined to make any improvement and assess the costs or any part thereof against property, and shall have passed the ordinance or resolution provided for in section two (2) of this act, and if the owners of the required frontage necessary for defeating the plan fail to act within the time required, the said governing body shall then have the power to enact all necessary ordinances and resolutions, and to establish all rules and regulations that may be necessary to require the owners of all the property abutting on the improvement to pay the costs of such improvement, and to cause to be installed and laid under said sidewalks all necessary water, gas, or sewerpipe connections to connect with existing or future water, gas or sewer lines, under or adjacent to the improvement, to the end that future disturbing of sidewalks may be avoided as nearly as possible, and the costs and expenses incident to same taxed against the property to be served thereby, and its owner, and the same shall be included in the assessment for sidewalk improvements chargeable to the owner and the property as aforesaid.
(1946 Ga. Laws, page 422)
Section 17.4. - Same; waiver; bond of contractors; bidding procedure.
After expiration of the time for objection or protest upon the part of the property owners, if no sufficient protests are filed, or upon receipt of a petition for such improvements signed by owners of a majority of the land to be assessed on the frontage basis as aforesaid, if such petition be found to be in proper form and duly executed and signed by the required number of owners of frontage, as aforesaid, the governing body shall adopt a resolution reciting that a protest was not filed by the required and necessary owners of frontage, or the filing of such petition, as the case may be, and express the determination of the governing body to proceed with the said improvement, stating the kind of improvement, and the extent and character of the same, and all other such matters as may be necessary to furnish full and sufficient information to all persons interested. Said resolution or ordinance shall set forth all reasonable terms and conditions as said body shall deem necessary to impose with reference to the letting of the contract and the provisions thereof. It shall be within the discretion of the governing body to require the contractor to execute a bond as provided in the act of August 19, 1916, entitled "Contractors of Public Work Bond," and may require a bond in an amount to be stated in said resolution or ordinance for maintenance in good condition for a period of five (5) years from completion, or both, in the discretion of said body. Said resolution or ordinance shall provide for advertising for sealed proposals for furnishing the labor and materials and performing the work necessary in making said improvements. The notice of such proposals shall be published in at least two (2) consecutive issues of a daily newspaper having a general circulation in the municipality, or in at least two (2) consecutive weekly issues of the newspaper in which sheriff's advertisements in the county wherein said municipality is located are published, or both, in the discretion of said body, and in addition thereto, contractors may, in the discretion of said body, be directly approached and invited to submit bids. It shall be the duty of said governing body to cause specifications and details of the proposed improvements to be made up and kept on file by the time said notice is published, and copies thereof furnished to all prospective bidders who may request them. Said published notice shall state what bond the contractor will be required to furnish, and shall state the time and place when and where said proposals shall be filed, and the time and place when and where the same will be considered. The governing body shall, at the time and place specified, unless prevented for good cause, examine all bids and award the contract to the lowest and best bidder. Said body shall have the right to reject any and all bids, and to readvertise for other bids, as often as may be necessary, whenever bids submitted are not, in the judgment of the governing body, satisfactory.
(1946 Ga. Laws, page 422)
Section 17.5. - Same; apportionment of costs; assessments; installment payments; transfer of notes.
After the contract is let, the governing body shall proceed to ascertain all expenses incurred by the municipality incident to said improvements which are not to be paid by it from general current funds, and shall apportion said expenses among the owners of the properties abutting upon said improvement upon a basis of lineal front footage, and shall include the just pro rata part of said expenses owed by each with the pro rata part of the contract price for the said improvement. When said expenses have been ascertained, the governing body shall designate a regular meeting of their body for hearing any and all complaints or objections they [sic] may be made respecting assessment of expenses and assessment of cost of said improvements. Notice of said meeting may be given personally or by mail, and shall be given at least five (5) days before said designated meeting date, and to persons against whom assessments are made, and their property. Said notices may be given by the clerk, or by the marshal, or by any other officer directed by said body. If mailed, the same may be directed to the last known address of the property owner, and such mailing of notice in the United States mails shall be sufficient. Appearance at said meeting by any owner of property assessed, or owner of any interest therein, personally or by authorized agent or attorney, shall be sufficient to render unnecessary any other or additional notice as to him. The governing body shall at said designated meeting proceed to review and correct said appraisements, apportionments, and assessments, as the facts may require, and to hear and determine all objections. The said body shall by ordinance or resolution fix the assessments in accordance with its actions taken at said meeting, and against the several tracts of land liable therefor. If unable to obtain a quorum at the designated meeting, or to complete and finally determine said matters at such meeting, the body shall be authorized to meet from day to day thereafter, or to remain in session from day to day, or to adjourn from time to time, as may be announced at the time and place of each meeting, until said matters are finally determined. Said body shall have authority to prescribe by said ordinance or resolution the rate of interest assessments shall bear, not exceeding the legal rate of interest, and shall also provide whether the said assessments are to be paid in cash or in installments. Said assessments shall, for the purpose of fixing liability for interest, and for making such initial cash payment as the governing body may require, and for electing to pay a portion in installments, when payment in installments provided for in the resolution or ordinance, become due 30 days from the passage of the final resolution or ordinance herein provided for. The governing body shall, however, have authority to direct that those who desire to pay in installments may within 30 days from the passage of said ordinance or resolution, pay the amount of cash installment required, and the remainder in equal annual installments, with interest. The body shall require the remainder to be paid within four (4) years from the date said election is required to be made. Said body may also provide for the taking of notes for deferred installments, which notes may be made payable either to the municipality or to the contractor, as the body may direct. It shall be lawful to provide in said note or in said ordinance or resolution, that if any installment become due and remain unpaid that the whole remaining balance may, at option of the governing body, if no notes taken, or at option of the holder of the notes, if notes taken become due and payable forthwith. The municipality shall have the right and power to assign or otherwise transfer said notes for the purpose of financing said improvements, but it shall not by reason of any assignment or endorsement of such notes assume any financial responsibility for payment of the debt represented thereby, other than to exercise the authority given by law, and by this act, for the enforcement of said notes and said assessments for the use and benefit of the parties at interest.
(1946 Ga. Laws, page 422)
Section 17.6. - Same; lien of assessment; execution.
Such special assessments and each installment thereof, and the interest thereon, and the expenses incident to collection, are hereby declared to constitute a lien against the lots and tracts of land so assessed, each tract being liable only for its just proportion ascertained as aforesaid, from the date of the resolution or ordinance levying the same, co-equal with the lien of taxes and prior to and superior to all other liens against such lots or tracts. Each such lien shall continue until seven (7) years past due as respects each installment, and in the event an installment shall become seven (7) years past due and no execution issue thereon and be placed upon the general execution docket of the county in which said municipality is located, the lien for the amount of such assessment or assessments as shall be seven (7) years past due, and execution issued and recorded as aforesaid shall be lost, and no execution for the enforcement of such barred installment shall issue or be enforced. All executions which shall issue within seven (7) years from the time the amounts thereby sought to be enforced became due and placed upon the general execution docket of said county within said time shall be kept alive and enforced and revived by the same facts and conditions and circumstances as executions issued upon common law judgments are kept alive and enforced and revived. The liens for said assessments shall be enforced by levy and sale in the same manner as liens due the municipality are enforced.
(1946 Ga. Laws, page 422)
Section 17.7. - Same; special fund.
The assessments provided for herein shall be payable to the City of Chamblee, and the funds derived therefrom shall be kept as a special fund or account for the purposes of defraying the cost and expenses of said improvements.
(1946 Ga. Laws, page 422)
Section 17.8. - Same; levy of execution; sales of property; affidavits of illegality.
Execution may issue and be levied upon the property liable whenever any one (1) installment, or more, is past due and unpaid. If a sale is had for the enforcement of one (1) or more installments, the property shall remain liable for and subject to sale for the enforcement of any remaining unpaid installments of such assessment. All sales for the enforcement of said liens and executions shall be to the highest and best bidder for cash, at public outcry, and such sales shall vest absolute title in the purchasers, subject to remaining unpaid installments, with interest, and costs, and subject to the right of redemption as provided by law in cases of tax sales. Said municipality shall have the right to bid upon said properties, and to purchase the same at such sales, by bidding not exceeding the amount of the execution under which sold, plus costs, interest, and legally charged expenses, if no other equal bid is made by another who is willing and able to purchase the same on bid equal to said sum authorized to be bid by said municipality. The defendant in such execution, or any other person having an interest in the property levied upon, shall have the right to file an affidavit of illegality denying the whole or any part of the amount for which said execution issued is due, and stating what amount he admits to be due, which amount so admitted to be due shall be paid before the affidavit is received, and the affidavit shall be received respecting the amount in dispute. All such affidavits shall set out in detail the reasons why the affiant claims the amount is not due, and, when received by the levying officer, he shall return it, together with the execution, to the superior court of the county in which the municipality is situated, and it shall be there tried and the issues determined as in cases of illegality, subject to all the pains and penalties provided for in other cases of illegality under the Code of Georgia.
(1946 Ga. Laws, page 422)
Section 17.9. - Same; judicial action restricted.
No suit, or action of any kind shall be brought or sustained which has for its purpose the setting aside of any such assessment, or to enjoin the governing body from making or fixing or collecting the same, or for issuing executives, or contesting the validity of any of said acts on any grounds or for any reason other than the failure of the governing body to adopt or publish the preliminary resolution or ordinance provided for in section two (2) of this act [section 17.1 hereof], in cases requiring such resolution and publication thereof, or failure to give notice of the meeting for passing upon said assessments for costs and expenses, as herein provided for, unless such suit be commenced within 30 days after passage of the ordinance or resolution making said assessment final; provided that in the event a special assessment shall be found to be invalid, or insufficient, in whole or in part, for any reason whatsoever, the said governing body may at any time, in the manner provided for making an original assessment, proceed to cause a new assessment to be made which shall have the same force and effect as an original assessment.
(1946 Ga. Laws, page 422)
Section 17.10. - Same; payment of costs from general fund.
Whenever the said municipality desires to pay any portion of the costs of making said improvements, and the expenses incident thereto, and is in position to pay same from current general funds, it shall be lawful to so do, and the remaining part shall be assessed against the abutting property and the owners thereof as hereinbefore provided.
(1946 Ga. Laws, page 422)
Section 17.11. - Same; methods not exclusive.
The provisions made in the foregoing sections of this act shall not be held and construed to provide an exclusive method or methods, but on the contrary shall be held and construed to provide alternative method or methods for doing the work and making the improvements and providing for payment.
(1946 Ga. Laws, page 422)
Section 17.12. - Same; additional alternative.
As a still further alternative method of making the improvements to sidewalks as contemplated by this act, whenever the said municipality has sufficient general current funds which it can legally expend upon such work and improvements, or can pay for some out of current revenues, and can do such work upon sidewalks as the governing body may deem necessary, and without necessity of making an assessment against abutting property, it shall be lawful for said municipality to make such improvements without advertising for competitive bids, and without letting the same upon competitive bid, and it may buy materials and hire labor and perform said work, if in the discretion of the governing body such method is more economical and practicable.
(1946 Ga. Laws, page 422)
Section 17.13. - Same; authority under 1937 act.
For the purposes of grading, regrading, paving, repaving, building, rebuilding, or otherwise improving sidewalks within the corporate limits of said municipality, as specified in section 17 as amended by this act, and set out in section one (1) of this act [section 17 of the charter], and under the restrictions of said section 17 as amended by this act, said municipality shall have authority to adopt the provisions of the act of August 25, 1927, found in the 1927 Ga. Laws, pages 321 and 325, inclusive, by complying with the provisions of said act, and all acts amendatory thereof, and, likewise, as an alternative method, proceed thereunder.
(1946 Ga. Laws, page 422)
Section 18. - Street tax.
Whenever said municipality shall operate general control over the streets and roads of its incorporated territory, it shall have the right and power to levy and collect street taxes against subjects liable for payment thereof to the same extent as DeKalb County is permitted to levy and collect under existing laws from subjects liable for payment of road taxes to DeKalb County.
(Ord. No. 746 , 3-20-18)
Section 19. - Fire protection powers.
Said municipality shall have authority to establish and maintain a fire fighting force and to provide the same with equipment, or to contract with others for furnishing fire protection to said municipality and its citizens.
Section 20. - Power to enforce ordinances; penalties.
Said municipality shall have authority to enforce any and all ordinances by fine or imprisonment, or both. Imprisonment may consist of confinement in jail, or it may consist of work and labor on the public works of the municipality. No fine shall exceed $1,000.00 and actual costs for each offense. Imprisonment shall not exceed six (6) months for each conviction of an offense. Both fine and imprisonment may be inflicted in the discretion of the presiding officer. Separate fines and/or penalties may be inflicted for each violation, and in such case each fine or penalty may be enforced without reference to the fine or penalty imposed in other violations by the same person. Sentences may run concurrently or consecutively, in the discretion of the presiding officer. Fines and sentences may be suspended in whole or in part by the presiding officer in his discretion. Fines may be enforced by execution, levy and sale.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 4238; Ord. No. 436, 4-15-97)
Section 21. - Ordinance powers.
Said municipality shall have authority to adopt and enforce any and all reasonable and necessary ordinances for the protection of health, life, limb and property, and the preservation of good morals. All such ordinances to conform to the general laws of the state and the constitution of the state.
Section 22. - Health officers.
Said municipality shall have the power to employ or appoint one (1) or more health officers and prescribe their duties, term of office and compensation.
(1946 Ga. Laws, page 422)
Section 23. - Franchises.
Said municipality shall have the right to grant franchises and prescribe the terms thereof, subject to such restrictions as may be imposed under the general law.
Section 24. - Personnel powers; generally.
As provided in this charter, said municipality shall have the power to appoint such agents, employees, and attorneys as shall be necessary and to fix their compensation and terms of their employment.
(1993 Ga. Laws (Act No. 102), § 1)
Section 25. - Street improvements; powers.
Insofar as said municipality is authorized to work or lay out or improve streets, roads, alleys and other public property under this act; or whenever said municipality shall be charged with the upkeep and maintenance of the same, it shall have authority to adopt the provisions of the act of August 25, 1927, found in the 1927 Ga. Laws, pages 321—335, inclusive, by complying with the provisions of said act, and all acts amendatory thereof, and shall thereupon be authorized to make improvements therein provided for and assess the cost as therein provided.
Section 26. - Regulation of building activity.
The mayor and council shall have the right to require all persons desiring to make improvements upon real estate to submit detailed information and make application for permit. It shall have the right to supervise and inspect all such improvements. It shall have the right to adopt a reasonable building code and shall have the power to enforce the same. Said municipality shall take all reasonable precautions to the end that life, limb and property of its citizens and of the public generally are protected before permitting any such work or improvements to proceed. It shall have authority to adopt all reasonable by-laws, ordinances and resolutions in furtherance of the general powers here enumerated.
Section 27. - Planning and zoning powers.
Said municipality, acting through its mayor and council, shall have authority to pass zoning and planning laws and ordinances, and to zone and district the territory within said municipality for the purpose of prescribing and regulating the uses that real property within said districts and zones may be devoted to. It shall have the right to prohibit other or different uses of such property within such zones or districts. It shall have the right to regulate plans for development and improvement of real estate within the corporate limits. It shall have authority to enact by ordinances and resolutions the necessary provisions for carrying into effect and enforcing the powers herein conferred, including the infliction of penalties for violations. It shall have the right to alter and amend all such ordinances, resolutions, and regulations from time to time, as might be proper, including the right to re-zone, redistrict, and to change properties from one zone or district or classification to another.
(1946 Ga. Laws, page 420)
Editor's note— The wording of the above section and section 27.1, derived from 1946 Ga. Laws, page 420, was ratified and confirmed as Charter amendments by 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2642, sec. 5.
Section 27.1. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 548, adopted June 20, 2006, repealed section 27.1 in its entirety. Former section 27.1 pertained to the zoning procedure and derived from 1946 Ga. Laws, page 420; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2642.
Section 28. - Condemnation of unsafe buildings and situations; powers.
The mayor and council shall have the right to condemn and cause to be remedied or removed any building, structure or existing condition within its corporate limits that is dangerous to life, limb or property, by reasons of decay, dilapidation, or unsanitary condition. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to relieve the municipality of any duty to give owners or interested persons reasonable notice and opportunity to remedy the situation. Nor shall anything herein contained be construed as relieving the municipality of liability to any interested person for damages to person or property taken or destroyed in furtherance of this power. This provision shall not be construed as authorizing the doing of any act or thing contrary to the constitution of this state and the policy of the general laws of this state. The municipality shall have authority to adopt reasonable ordinances and resolutions in conformity with this act and for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this act and of this section.
Section 29. - Schools not to be operated by city.
Said municipality shall not have authority to operate schools and shall not have authority to levy taxes for educational purposes until such time as this act and section may be amended expressly conferring such authority.
Section 30. - General powers.
Said municipality shall have the power to sue in its corporate name and to be sued, to have and use a common seal, to contract and be contracted with in its corporate name, and to do all the usual and necessary things incident to the powers herein contained, together with all the usual, customary and implied powers vested in like municipal corporations.
Section 31. - Existing laws and rights not affected by charter.
All valid ordinances that were in effect at the time of passage of this new and revised charter, in said municipality, are declared to be valid and existing ordinances under this act, and subject to repeal, amendment or modification by said municipality as though no change in its charter had been effected. All rights and liabilities previously existing as between said municipality and others shall remain unchanged by this act. All property rights, contracts, tax liens and liabilities, or other rights and liabilities of whatever kind and nature as between said municipality and others shall remain unchanged by the passage of this act.
Section 32. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 411, § I, adopted March 19, 1996, repealed § 32, which pertained to tax assessors/returns and derived from the 1935 Ga. Laws, page 976.
Section 33. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 411, § I, adopted March 19, 1996, repealed § 33, which pertained to tax date/periods of limitations on liens and executions, and derived from the 1935 Ga. Laws, page 976.
Section 34. - Collection of taxes; generally.
All taxes due to said municipality which are not barred for any reason, shall be collectible under the provisions of this act and in the manner herein prescribed for the collection and enforcement of taxes due to it.
Section 35. - Tax executions; levy and sale.
The mayor and council of said municipality shall have the power to cause executions to issue for the enforcement and collection of all taxes, fines, license fees, forfeitures, assessments or other demands due to it. Such executions shall be signed by the city clerk and bear test in the name of the mayor or mayor pro tem. All such executions shall be returnable to the mayor and council 30 days after date of issue, and shall bear the legal rate of interest. All such executions shall be directed to the marshal of the City of Chamblee and by him levied and sales made by him when levied within said municipality. When necessary to levy such execution upon property not within said municipality the city clerk is hereby authorized to also direct the same to all and singular the sheriffs of the State of Georgia, and their lawful deputies, and to all and singular the constables of said state. All executions may be levied upon any and all of the property of the defendant therein, real or personal, as might be necessary, and wherever found within the State of Georgia. When such executions are levied by a sheriff or constable on property outside the municipality, the same shall be advertised and sales held under the same provisions as govern sales by sheriffs and constables under common law executions. In such cases, executions for less than $100 principal shall be levied and sales held thereunder under the same provisions of law as govern levies and sales under executions issuing from justice's courts, when levied outside the municipality. And executions issuing for sums in excess of $100 principal, shall when levied outside the municipality, be levied and sales held thereunder as provided by law in cases of levy and sales by sheriffs under common law executions. When executions issued by the municipality are levied by the marshal thereof upon personal property he shall advertise the same in the same manner as constables sales are advertised and sell the property levied upon before the place of meetings of council, at public outcry, within the legal hours of sale and on the legal sales day for judicial sales as provided by general laws. When real property is levied upon by the marshal he shall advertise the same in the official organ of the municipality, designated as such by the governing authorities of the municipality, and sell the property before the front door of the meeting place of the city council in said municipality, on general legal sales day, as fixed by general law, after advertising to the same extent and in the same manner (except as to the newspaper in which advertised) as sheriff's sales. Said marshal shall have authority to execute to the purchaser of any property, real or personal, bills of sale and deeds to any property sold by such marshal, and to place purchasers in possession of such properties. All such marshal's sales to be for cash, at public auction, to the highest bidder, and within the legal hours of sale as fixed by general law.
(1959 Ga. Laws, page 2642)
Section 36. - Force of executions as liens.
All executions issued by said municipality shall have such force as liens against the property of the defendants therein as are allowed by general laws.
Section 37. - Procedure for resisting levy and sale.
Any person having cause to resist the levy and sale of property under executions issued by said municipality shall do so under provisions of the general law.
Section 38. - Redemption of property from tax sale.
All real property sold under execution for taxes due to said municipality, or for other debt or demand, shall be redeemable only under the provisions of general law, and when allowed by general law, and upon payment of premiums and charges allowed by general laws.
Section 39. - Recitals in deeds.
All recitals of fact placed in deeds to real or personal property sold by the marshal or other officer authorized to levy and sell, shall be prima facie evidence of the facts recited, but such recitals may be rebutted.
Section 40. - Taxes payable in installments, delinquent date for taxes.
All ad valorem taxes on real property due to such municipality shall be payable in installments and such installments shall be considered as delinquent after the fifteenth day of August of the year for which the first installment is levied and after the fifteenth day of November of the year for which the second installment is levied and executions may issue thereafter and shall bear interest at the legal rate from such date.
(1966 Ga. Laws, page 3148; Ord. No. 411, § II, 3-19-96)
Section 41. - Tax books; date for opening.
The Tax Commissioner of Dekalb County shall open the City tax books for tax returns on the first day of January and close them on the first day of March or as soon thereafter as is possible.
(1966 Ga. Laws, page 3148; Ord. No. 411, § III, 3-19-96)
Section 42. - Additional powers.
The mayor and council shall have the power to adopt all reasonable and necessary ordinances, resolutions and by-laws for the purpose of giving effect to the rights and powers conferred by this act, or to supply any deficiency in prescribed forms and procedures, not inconsistent with general laws and the provisions of this act.
Section 43. - Social security coverage.
The mayor and council of the City of Chamblee shall have authority to enter into all necessary contracts and agreements, bonds and other instruments for the purpose of furnishing social security protection and insurance to its employees and other persons eligible for such protection under existing laws, or under future laws. They shall have authority to expend public money for said purpose, as elsewhere provided in this act.
(1959 Ga. Laws, page 2642)
Section 44. - Official organ; designation authority.
The mayor and council of the City of Chamblee shall have authority to designate any newspaper published in DeKalb County, or having a general circulation in DeKalb County, as the official organ of said municipality, and in which all notices and advertisements required by said charter, as amended, or as may be amended hereafter, or as may be required by general law, shall be published. Said designation shall be made as soon after passage and approval of this act as may be practicable. Such designation shall be recoverable at the will of the council at anytime.
(1959 Ga. Laws, page 2642)
ARTICLE 2. - ELECTIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 542, pt. I, adopted Oct. 18, 2005, repealed article 2, sections 1—3, in its entirety and replaced it with a new article 2, sections 1, 2. Former article 2 pertained to similar material and derived from 1985 Ga. Laws, H. B. 44; Ord. No. 329, adopted Nov. 10, 1989.

Section 1. - Date of general municipal elections.
All general elections held to fill municipal offices shall be held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November in each odd-numbered year.
(Ord. No. 542, pt. I, 10-18-05)
Section 2. - Eligibility for re-election.
The mayor and council members shall be eligible for re-election regardless of the number of terms each may have been previously elected to serve.
(Ord. No. 542, pt. I, 10-18-05)
ARTICLE 3. - BOARD OF MAYOR AND COUNCILMEMBERS

Section 1. - Composition; qualifications for holding office; election of councilmembers by district.
The legislative and policy-making functions of said municipality shall be vested in a board of mayor and councilmembers. Said board shall consist of a mayor and five (5) councilmembers, to be elected as provided in article 2 of this act. They shall receive such reasonable compensation for their services as shall be fixed by majority vote of the council members. In order to qualify for election at any election hereafter held, to fill the office of mayor or councilman, or to be qualified to hold either of such offices, the person so offering or undertaking shall be at least 25 years of age, shall be qualified to vote for members of the general assembly in the general election next to be held for said purpose of electing members of the general assembly, shall have been an actual bona fide resident of the City of Chamblee for at least one (1) year before offering for election. In addition, no person shall be qualified to hold either of said offices if in other respects he would be disqualified to hold office as a member of the lower house of the General Assembly of Georgia. All such officers shall be qualified voters in city elections. Removal from the city by any such officer will vacate his office.
(a)
For purposes of electing members of the city council, the City of Chamblee is divided into three council districts and two at-large districts. One member of the city council shall be elected from each of the three council districts and two members of the city council shall be elected from the city at large. The three council districts shall be and correspond to those three numbered districts described in Section 1.1 of this Article 3. At the time a candidate for the office of councilmember of any of the three election districts described in Section 1.1 of this Article 3 qualifies as a candidate, and at the time he is elected to such office, and throughout such person's term of service as such, such person shall be a bona fide resident of the election district within the city designated by such person when qualifying as a candidate. Candidates for the office of councilmember at large may reside anywhere within the corporate limits of the City of Chamblee. A candidate for the office of councilmember at large shall designate, at the time such person qualifies as a candidate, that such person is qualifying as an at-large candidate. Council districts numbered 1, 2, and 3 as they exist immediately prior to the effective date of this Act shall continue to be designated as Council Districts 1, 2, and 3, respectively, but as newly described under this Act and as set forth in Section 1.1 of this Article 3, and on and after the effective date of this Act, such councilmembers serving from former districts 4 and 5 shall be deemed to be serving as councilmembers at large.
(b)
Each candidate for office of councilman shall be voted upon by the voters of the municipality, in city-wide elections, in the same manner as heretofore, and elected in the same manner as heretofore, except as changed by this act.
(c)
Each councilman elected pursuant to these provisions shall have the same city-wide powers, authority, and jurisdiction as was vested in councilmembers prior to this act.
(d)
In holding elections pursuant to the provisions of this act, written or printed ballots shall be used, and candidates for councilmembers from each separate district shall be grouped or bracketed according to district. Each qualified voter participating in such election shall be entitled to vote for one (1) candidate, and one (1) only, from each district from which a candidate is to be elected.
(e)
Candidates for the office of mayor, and their qualifications, are not affected by the provisions of this act.
(f)
This act shall become effective, and shall apply to, the following: Elections held in 1959, prior to the regular December, 1959, elections, for the purpose of filling vacancies on the council; the regular December, 1959 election, held on the first Saturday in December, 1959, for the purpose of electing councilmembers for terms beginning January 1, 1960; the regular December, 1960, election held for the purpose of electing councilmembers for terms beginning January 1, 1961. And the act shall apply to all elections held for electing councilmembers subsequent to the date last named.
(g)
The office of a councilmember shall become vacant upon such person's removal of such person's residence from the district from which elected or such person's removal of such person's residence from the city.
(1950 Ga. Laws, page 2807; 1952 Ga. Laws, page 2630; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2642; Ord. No. 293, 4-12-85; 1993 Ga. Laws (Act No. 102), § 3; 2002 Ga. Laws, page 5541)
Section 1.1. - Election districts.
The corporate area of the City of Chamblee is divided into four districts for the purpose of electing council members from each such district. For such purposes, said districts are to be known as Election Districts and are to be numbered Election Districts 1, 2, 3, and 4 respectively. One council member shall be elected from the city at large.
(1)
Election District 1 shall include the area lying within the following described lines and boundaries. Beginning at the point where the centerline of Chamblee Dunwoody Road would intersect with the centerline of Harts Mill Road if the centerline of Harts Mill Road was extended northeast in a straight line; thence running southeast along the centerline of Chamblee Dunwoody Road to a point where the centerline of Chamblee Dunwoody Road intersects with the centerline of Peachtree Boulevard; thence running southwest to a point where the centerline of Peachtree Boulevard would intersect with the centerline of Pierce Drive if the centerline of Pierce Drive was extended northwest in a straight line; thence running southeast along the centerline of Pierce Drive to a point where the centerline of Pierce Drive, if the centerline of Pierce Drive was extended southeast in a straight line, would intersect with the centerline of Peachtree Road; thence running northeast along the centerline of Peachtree Road to a point where the centerline of Peachtree Road intersects the municipal boundary of the City of Chamblee; thence running east and then southeast along the municipal boundary to a point where the municipal boundary intersects with the centerline of Shallowford Road; thence running south along the centerline of Shallowford Road to a point where the centerline of Shallowford Road would intersect with the centerline of Chamblee Dunwoody Road if the centerline of Chamblee Dunwoody Road was extended southeast in a straight line; thence running northwest along the centerline of Chamblee Dunwoody Road until the centerline of Chamblee Dunwoody Road intersects with the centerline of New Peachtree Road; thence running southwest along the centerline of New Peachtree Road to a point where the centerline of New Peachtree Road would intersect with the centerline of Hardee Avenue if the centerline of Hardee Avenue was extended north in a straight line; thence running south along the centerline of Hardee Avenue to a point where the centerline of Hardee Avenue, if it was extended south in a straight line, would intersect with the centerline of 6th Street if the centerline of 6th Street was extended east in a straight line; thence running west along the centerline of 6th Street to a point where the centerline of 6th Street, if it was extended west in a straight line, would intersect with the centerline of Clairmont Road; thence running south to a point where the centerline of Clairmont Road would intersect with the centerline of 8th Street if the centerline of 8th Street was extended east in a straight line; thence running west along the centerline of 8th Street to a point where the centerline of the 8th Street would intersect with the centerline of Park Lane if the centerline of 8th Street was extend west in a straight line, at which point it also intersects with the municipal boundary for the City of Chamblee; thence running west along the municipal boundary which turns northeast upon crossing Peachtree Road and then turns north except for one westward turn before turning back north to a point where the municipal boundary intersects with the centerline of Harts Mill Road; thence running east then southeast to a point where the centerline of Harts Mill Road if it was extended northeast in a straight line would intersect with the centerline of Chamblee Dunwoody Road, the point of beginning of this Election District 1.
More particularly, consistent with the boundary description above, Election District 1 shall include the following same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2020 for the State of Georgia, and the separate numeric designations which are underneath a "Tract" heading shall mean and describe individual blocks within a Tract as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2020 for the State of Georgia:
EXPAND
Tract 212.04:
1020
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
3003 3008 3009 3010 3020 3021 3022
Tract 212.08:
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
3012 3013 3014
Tract 212.21:
3000
Tract 212.22:
1000 1001 1002 1003 1004 1005
4000 4001 4002 4003 4004 4005 4006 4007 4008 4009
4010 4011 4012 4015 4016
Tract 213.07:
1015
Tract 214.12:
1000 1001 1002 1003 1004 1005 1006 1007 1008 1009
1010 1011 1012 1013 1014 1015
1024 1025
3000
  (2)
Election District 2 shall include the area lying within the following described lines and boundaries: Beginning at the point where the centerline of Chamblee Dunwoody Road would intersect with the centerline of Harts Mill Road if the centerline of Harts Mill Road was extended northeast in a straight line; thence running northeast along the centerline of Chamblee Dunwoody Road to a point where the centerline of Chamblee Dunwoody Road intersects with the centerline of Savoy Drive; thence running east to a point where the centerline of Savoy Drive intersects with the municipal boundary for the City of Chamblee just west of North Shallowford Road; thence running east with the municipal boundary which turns southeast and then turns south and then turns west to a point where the municipal boundary intersects with the centerline of Parson Drive; thence running southeast along the centerline of Parson Drive to a point where, if the centerline of Parson Drive was extended southeast in a straight line, it would intersect with the centerline of Peachtree Road if the centerline of Peachtree Road was extended north in a straight line; thence running south and then southwest along the centerline of Peachtree Road to a point where the centerline of Peachtree Road would intersect with the centerline of Pierce Drive if the centerline of Pierce Drive was extended southeast in a straight line; thence running northwest along the centerline of Pierce Drive to a point where the centerline of Pierce Drive if it was extended northwest in a straight line would intersect with the centerline of Peachtree Boulevard; thence running northeast along the centerline of Peachtree Boulevard to a point where the centerline of Peachtree Boulevard intersects with the centerline of Chamblee Dunwoody Road; thence running north then northwest along the centerline of Chamblee Dunwoody Road to a point where the centerline of Chamblee Dunwoody Road would intersect with the centerline of Harts Mill Road if the centerline of Harts Mill Road were extended northeast in a straight line, this point being the point of beginning of this Election District 2.
More particularly, consistent with the boundary description above, Election District 2 shall include the following same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2020 for the State of Georgia, and the separate numeric designations which are underneath a "Tract" heading shall mean and describe individual blocks within a Tract as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2020 for the State of Georgia:
EXPAND
Tract 212.08:
1000 1001 1002 1003 1004 1005 1006 1007 1008 1009
1010 1011 1012 1013 1014 1015 1016 1017 1018 1019
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
3000 3001 3002 3003 3004 3005 3006 3007 3008 3009
3010 3011 3015 3016 3017 3018 3019
3020 3021 3022 3023 3024
Tract 212.20:
2002 2003 2004
Tract 213.01:
1022 1023 1024 1025 1026
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
3002 3003 3004 3005 3006 3007 3008
3011
  (3)
Election District 3 shall include the area lying within the following described lines and boundaries: Beginning at the point where the centerline of Shallowford Road intersects with the centerline of Chamblee Dunwoody Road if the centerline of Chamblee Dunwoody Road was extended southeast in a straight line; thence running south to a point where the centerline of Shallowford Road intersects with the centerline of Chamblee Tucker Road; thence running southeast along the municipal boundary of the city of Chamblee to a point where the municipal boundary intersects with the right-of-way of Interstate 85 (a/k/a I-85; a/k/a Northeast Expressway; including the Interstate 85 Access Road and any exit or entrance ramps of Interstate 85); thence running southeast along said right-of-way which is the municipal boundary of the City of Chamblee to a point where the right-of-way and municipal boundary intersect with the centerline of Plaster Road if the centerline of Plaster Road was extended southeast in a straight line; thence running northwest along the centerline of Plaster Road to a point where the centerline of Plaster Road would intersect with the centerline of Dresden Drive if the centerline of Plaster Road was extended northwest in a straight line; thence running southwest along the centerline of Dresden Drive to a point where the centerline of Dresden Drive intersects with the centerline of Clairmont Road; thence running north along the centerline of Clairmont Road to a point where the centerline of Clairmont Road would intersect with the centerline of 6th Street if the centerline of 6th Street was extended west in a straight line; thence running east along the centerline of 6th Street to a point where the centerline of 6th Street, if it was extended east in a straight line, would intersect with the centerline of Hardee Avenue if the centerline of Hardee Avenue was extended south in a straight line; thence running north along the centerline of Hardee Avenue to a point where the centerline of Hardee Avenue, if it was extended north in a straight line, would intersect with the centerline of New Peachtree Road; thence running northeast along the centerline of New Peachtree Road to a point where the centerline of New Peachtree Road intersects with the centerline of Chamblee Dunwoody Road; thence running east then southeast along the centerline of Chamblee Dunwoody Road to a point where the centerline of Chamblee Dunwoody Road, if its centerline was extended southeast in a straight line, would intersect with the centerline of Shallowford Road, this being the point of beginning of this Election District 3.
More particularly, consistent with the boundary description above, Election District 3 shall include the following same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2020 for the State of Georgia, and the separate numeric designations which are underneath a "Tract" heading shall mean and describe individual blocks within a Tract as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2020 for the State of Georgia:
EXPAND
Tract 212.04:
1000 1001 1002 1003
3000 3001 3002 3004 3005 3006 3007
3011 3012 3013 3014 3015 3016 3017 3018 3019
3023 3024
Tract 213.07:
1022
Tract 213.08:
1000 1001 1002 1003 1004 1005 1006 1007 1008 1009
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
3000 3001 3002 3003 3004 3005 3006 3007 3008 3009
3010 3011 3012 3013 3014 3015 3016 3017 3018 3019
3020 3021 3022
Tract 214.09:
1000 1001 1002 1003
1010
Tract 214.10:
1000 1001
2000 2003
Tract 214.12:
2015
  (4)
Election District 4 shall include the area lying within the following described lines and boundaries: Beginning at the point where the centerline of Clairmont Road intersects with the centerline of Dresden Drive; thence running south along the centerline of Clairmont Road to the point where it intersects with the right-of-way of Interstate 85 (a/k/a I-85; a/k/a Northeast Expressway; including the Interstate 85 Access Road and any exit or entrance ramps of Interstate 85); thence running northeast along the municipal boundary of the City of Chamblee to a point where the right-of-way line would intersect with the centerline of Plaster Road if the centerline of Plaster Road was extended southeast in a straight line; thence running northwest along the centerline of Plaster Road to a point where the centerline of Plaster Road, if the centerline of Plaster Road was extended northwest in a straight line, would intersect with the centerline of Dresden Drive; thence running west along the centerline of Dresden Drive to a point where the centerline of Dresden Drive intersects with the centerline of Clairmont Road, this being the point of beginning of this Election District 4.
More particularly, consistent with the boundary description above, Election District 4 shall include the following same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2020 for the State of Georgia, and the separate numeric designations which are underneath a "Tract" heading shall mean and describe individual blocks within a Tract as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2020 for the State of Georgia:
EXPAND
Tract 214.09:
1004 1005 1006 1007 1008 1009
2000 2001 2003
3000 3001
Tract 214.10:
1002 1003 1004 1005 1006 1007 1008 1009
1010 1011 1012 1013 1014 1015 1016
2001 2002
3000 3001 3002 3003 3004 3005 3006 3007 3008 3009
3010 3011 3012 3013 3014 3015 3016 3017
Tract 214.12:
2014 2023
  (Ord. No. 376, § 1.1, 8-13-93; Ord. No. 401, 4-14-95; 2002 Ga. Laws, page 5541; Ord. No. 637, 6-21-11; Ord. No. 678 , 6-16-15; Ord. No. 811 , 6-21-22)
Section 2. - Mayor; powers and duties.
The mayor shall be the chief elected officer of the municipality. The mayor shall preside at meetings of the mayor and council and approve minutes of the meetings. The mayor shall sign all contracts on behalf of the municipality.
(1993 Ga. Laws (Act No. 102), § 4)
Section 3. - Mayor's vote; quorum; vote required to decide question.
The mayor shall not have a vote except in case of a tie. The mayor or the mayor pro tem. and three (3) council members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Three affirmative votes shall be required to decide any question pending before them. When the mayor and the mayor pro tem. are both present at a meeting, the mayor pro tem. shall vote as any other member of council. When the mayor is not present, the mayor pro tem. shall not vote except in case of a tie.
(Ord. No. 463, § I, 10-20-98; Ord. No. 473, § I, 5-18-99; Ord. No. 789 , 12-15-20; Ord. No. 791 , 2-16-21)
Section 4. - Mayor pro tem.
It shall be the duty of the mayor and council at the first meeting following the first day of each January to elect a mayor pro tem. from among the members of council, he to serve during the year. Said mayor pro tem. shall be vested with all the powers and duties of the mayor in the absence, disability, death, resignation, death [sic] or disqualification of the mayor.
Section 5. - Special elections to fill vacancies.
Special elections may be called at any time, after 10 days' notice posted at the council chamber, for the purpose of filling vacancies occurring on the board of mayor and council, such notice to be posted at the direction of a majority of the board declaring the necessity therefor.
Section 6. - Oath of mayor and councilmembers.
Before entering upon their duties, the mayor and each member of council shall take and subscribe to the following oath:
"I do swear that I will well and truly demean myself as mayor or councilmember, as the case may be, of the City of Chamblee, during my term of office; and that I am not the holder of any unaccounted for public money due the State of Georgia or any political subdivision or authority thereof, that I am not the holder of any office of trust under the government of the United States, any other state, or any foreign state which I may, by the laws of the State of Georgia, be prohibited from holding; that I am otherwise qualified to hold the office to which I have been elected according to the constitution and laws of Georgia; that I will support the constitution of the United States and of the State of Georgia; that I am a resident of the district from which I was elected; and that I will faithfully enforce the Charter and ordinances of the City of Chamblee to the best of my skill and ability, without fear or favor.
(Ord. No. 464, § I, 11-17-98)
Section 7. - Meetings.
The mayor and council shall have the authority to designate by ordinance or resolution a regular date for council meetings, and shall be authorized to adjourn from day to day and from time to time as necessity shall require. Special meeting may be called at any time after three (3) hours' notice to each member of the board.
ARTICLE 4. - ORDINANCES

Section 1. - Adoption at regular meeting only.
Ordinances shall not be adopted except in regular meeting of the mayor and council members of the city. All other business may be transacted at either regular or special meetings, duly called and attended. Ordinances which have been read in open forum at any regular council meeting of the mayor and council members of the city may be considered for passage and approval by the mayor and council members at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the mayor and city council. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the mayor and council, by majority vote, may propose that only the catchlines of the sections of any proposed ordinance be read in open forum; provided, that all catchlines of any proposed ordinance must fairly and accurately indicate the contents of the sections to which such catchlines apply. The mayor and council shall, upon the presentation and reading of said ordinance, be authorized to make any modification, changes and/or alterations of said ordinance.
(Ord. No. 332, 2-9-90)
Editor's note— Former section 1 of article 4 of the Charter was repealed and replaced in its entirety by Ord. No. 332, 2-9-90.
Section 2. - Approval; recording.
All ordinances shall be approved by the mayor, or mayor pro tem. in proper cases, and shall be filed and recorded by the clerk.
Section 3. - Proposed; procedures.
All ordinances or resolutions shall be proposed in writing. The mayor or mayor pro tem. shall be allowed to propose ordinances and resolutions, as may any other member of council.
Section 4. - Minutes of meetings.
It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to record and maintain in a safe place the minutes of all meetings of the mayor and council members sufficient to identify and disclose the legality and regularity of all official action taken at meetings and all matters passed upon officially.
(Ord. No. 691 , 11-17-15)
ARTICLE 5. - OFFICERS

Section 1. - City manager.
(a)
There is created the office of city manager for the City of Chamblee, Georgia. The city council, by a majority vote of its total membership, shall appoint a person to serve as city manager for an indefinite term and shall fix the manager's compensation. The manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of his or her executive and administrative qualifications.
(b)
No member of the city council shall be appointed city manager during the term of office for which he or she is elected or for a period of one year thereafter.
(c)
By a letter filed with the city clerk, the city manager shall designate, subject to approval of the city council, a qualified city officer or employee to exercise the powers and perform the duties of city manager during the manager's temporary absence or disability. The city council may revoke such designation at any time and appoint another officer of the city to serve until the city manager returns.
(d)
The city manager shall be the chief executive officer of the city, responsible to the city council for the administration of all city affairs placed in the manager's charge by or under this charter or state law. Specifically, the city manager shall:
(1)
Appoint and, when necessary for the good of the city, suspend or remove all officers and employees of the city subject to this charter and applicable personnel policies and procedures, which the mayor and council had been heretofore empowered to appoint and discharge, except the city attorney, the outside auditor, the municipal judge, the assistant judge, and inspectors, who shall be appointed and removed by the mayor and council. The city manager may authorize any administrative officer who is subject to the manager's direction and supervision to exercise these powers with respect to subordinates in that officer's department, office, or agency;
(2)
Direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices, and agencies of the city except as otherwise provided by law or this charter;
(3)
Attend all city council meetings. The city manager shall have the right to take part in discussion but shall not have the right to vote;
(4)
See that all laws, provisions of this charter, and acts of the city council subject to enforcement by the city manager or by officers subject to the manager's direction and supervision are faithfully executed;
(5)
Prepare and submit the annual operating budget and the capital budget to the city council;
(6)
Submit to the city council and make available to the public a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the city as of the end of each fiscal year;
(7)
Make such reports as the city council may require concerning the operations of city departments, offices, and agencies subject to the manager's direction and supervision;
(8)
Keep the city council fully advised as to the financial condition and future needs of the city;
(9)
Make recommendations to the city council concerning the affairs of the city; and
(10)
Perform such other duties that are specified by state law or this charter or are required by the city council.
(e)
Except for the purposes of inquiries and investigations as authorized by a majority vote of the council, the mayor, the city council, and members of the city council shall deal with city officers and employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of the city manager solely through the manager; and neither the mayor, the city council, nor individual members of the city council shall give orders to any such city officer or employee, either publicly or privately.
(f)
The city manager shall not be eligible for election as a member of the city council of Chamblee for a period of one year after termination of service as city manager.
(g)
The city council may remove the manager from office in accordance with the following procedures:
(1)
The city council shall adopt by affirmative vote of a majority of all its members a preliminary resolution which must state the reasons for removal and may suspend the manager from duty for a period not to exceed 45 days. A copy of the resolution shall be delivered promptly to the manager;
(2)
Within five days after a copy of the resolution is delivered to the manager, the manager may file with the city council a written request for hearing by the city council. This hearing shall be held within 30 days after the request is filed. The manager may file with the council a written reply not later than five days before the hearing; and
(3)
If the manager has not requested a hearing within the time specified in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the city council may adopt a final resolution for removal, which may be made effective immediately, by an affirmative vote of a majority of all its members. If the manager has requested a hearing, the city council may adopt a final resolution for removal, which may be made effective immediately, by an affirmative vote of a majority of all its members at any time after the hearing.
(h)
The manager shall continue to receive his or her salary until the effective date of a final resolution of removal.
(1993 Ga. Laws (Act No. 102), § 5)
Section 2. - Hiring of marshal, policemen, city clerk, public works director, planning and development director, parks and recreation director, finance director, community and economic development director, deputy city manager; compensation, removal.
(a)
There shall be a marshal of the City of Chamblee who shall be hired by the city manager, with the confirmation of employment by the city council, and removed by the city manager. The marshal shall be the chief of police of said municipality and shall be clothed with all the powers of an arresting officer within said municipality and shall be clothed with all the powers usual and incident to such officer. The marshal shall receive such compensation as the mayor and council shall prescribe. The marshal shall serve all papers and summonses and execute all writs and executions directed to him or her by the city manager, perform all the duties prescribed by state law and this Charter, and carry out such other duties as the city manager may lawfully direct. The municipality through its manager shall have the power to appoint assistant marshals and policemen as may be necessary, who shall serve at the pleasure of the city manager and who shall receive such compensation as the mayor and council may prescribe and who shall perform the duties of marshals and policemen of the City of Chamblee.
(b)
There shall be a city clerk for the City of Chamblee who shall be hired by the city manager, with the confirmation of employment by the city council, and removed by the city manager. The city clerk shall receive such compensation as the mayor and council may fix and shall perform the duties prescribed in this Charter and such other duties as the city manager may lawfully direct.
(c)
There shall be a public works director for the City of Chamblee who shall be hired by the city manager, with the confirmation of employment by the city council, and removed by the city manager. The public works director shall receive such compensation as the mayor and council may fix and shall perform the duties prescribed in this Charter and such other duties as the city manager may lawfully direct.
(d)
There shall be a planning and development director for the City of Chamblee who shall be hired by the city manager, with the confirmation of employment by the city council, and removed by the city manager. The planning and development director shall receive such compensation as the mayor and council may fix and shall perform the duties prescribed in this Charter and such other duties as the city manager may also direct.
(e)
There shall be a parks and recreation director for the City of Chamblee who shall be hired by the city manager, with the confirmation of employment by the city council, and removed by the city manager. The parks and recreation director shall receive such compensation as the mayor and council may fix and shall perform the duties prescribed in this Charter and such other duties as the city manager may also direct.
(f)
There shall be a finance director for the City of Chamblee who shall be hired by the city manager, with the confirmation of employment by the city council, and removed by the city manager. The finance director shall receive such compensation as the mayor and council may fix and shall perform the duties prescribed in this Charter and such other duties as the city manager may also direct.
(g)
There shall be a community and economic development director for the City of Chamblee who shall be hired by the city manager, with the confirmation of employment by the city council, and removed by the city manager. The community and economic development director shall receive such compensation as the mayor and council may fix and shall perform the duties prescribed in this Charter and such other duties as the city manager may also direct.
(h)
There shall be a deputy city manager for the City of Chamblee who shall be hired by the city manager, with the confirmation of employment by the city council and removed by the city manager. The deputy city manager shall receive such compensation as the mayor and council may fix and shall perform the duties prescribed in this Charter and such other duties as the city manager may also direct.
(i)
If the marshal, the city clerk, the public works director, the planning and development director, the parks and recreation director, the finance director, the community and economic development director or the deputy city manager is removed from office, said officer may appeal such removal to the city council. Only a majority vote of the entire membership of the city council can overturn such a removal action by the city manager.
(1993 Ga. Laws (Act No. 102), § 6; Ord. No. 472, § I, 7-20-99; Ord. No. 483, § 1, 4-18-00; Ord. No. 598, 4-21-09; Ord. No. 608, 8-18-09; Ord. No. 746 , 3-20-18)
Section 3. - Faithful performance bonds.
The mayor and council shall have the right to require such bonds for the faithful performance of officers and agents as they may deem proper, pay the premiums thereon out of the general funds, and in case of breach, the city may recover thereon.
Section 3.1. - Maximum term of appointed office for municipal court judge; service agreement.
(a)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge of the municipal court unless he or she shall be in compliance with the requirements of state law on qualifications to serve in such office, including, but not limited to, compliance with all applicable training requirements.
(b)
All judges of the municipal court for the Municipal Court of Chamblee shall be appointed by a resolution of the City Council that adopts or approves a Service Agreement with the judge. This Service Agreement shall include a term of service of no less than one year and no more than two years. The Service Agreement shall be approved by the city attorney as accurately describing the obligations of the judge and the independence of the court, and it shall identify obligations of the judge and of the city for oversight and management of court staff and court service providers. Unless the judge has been removed from office in the middle of the term as described below, the Service Agreement shall renew automatically for a subsequent term unless the city council, by resolution, appoints a successor judge to serve at the expiration of the then current term. The judge shall be an independent contractor of the City during the term of the Service Agreement.
(c)
The judge, or any judge pro tempore serving in the absence of the judge, is solely responsible for judicial decisions. Judicial decisions include, but are not limited to, establishment of a standard bail schedule, determination of bail in individual cases, determination of financial ability, conditions of probation, determination of liability and determination of eligibility for indigent defense and for alternatives to monetary penalties including community service and penalty or fine reductions.
(d)
The judge is responsible for notifying the City Manager and the city attorney of any resources or process changes that are required or appropriate in order for the court to operate in accordance with applicable law.
(e)
Unless prohibited by the Service Agreement, the municipal court judge may engage in the private practice of law; provided, however, a judge may not appear and represent a client before the Chamblee Municipal Court.
(f)
Before entering on the duties of his or her office for the first time, an appointed judge shall take the following oath before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths in this state:
"I swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully and impartially and without fear, favor, or affection discharge my duties as judge of the Municipal Court for the City of Chamblee, and will take only my lawful compensation. I do further swear (or affirm) that I am not the holder of any unaccounted for public money due this State, or any political subdivision or authority thereof; that I am not the holder of any office of trust under the government of the United States, any other state, or any foreign state which I am prohibited from holding by the laws of the State of Georgia; and that I am otherwise qualified to hold said office, according to the Constitutions and Laws of Georgia; and that I will support the Constitutions of the United States and of this state."
The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the City Council, and the judge's name, contact information for business correspondence and term of office shall be provided to the Administrative Office of the Courts.
(g)
A judge of the municipal court shall serve for the designated term in the Service Agreement but may be removed from the position and the Service Agreement terminated during the term by a two-thirds vote of the entire membership of the City Council or upon action taken by the State Judicial Qualification Commission for:
(1)
Willful misconduct in office;
(2)
Willful and persistent failure to perform duties;
(3)
Habitual intemperance;
(4)
Conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice which brings the judicial office into disrepute; or
(5)
Disability seriously interfering with the performance of duties which is, or is likely to become, of a permanent character.
(1953 Ga. Laws, page 2447; Ord. No. 772 , pt. I, 12-17-19)
Editor's note— Sections 3.1 through 3.3 have been numbered for inclusion at the codifier's discretion. They were enacted as unnumbered Charter amendments. Section 3.1 was amended by home rule ordinance to delete references to the mayor and mayor pro tem as judges of the court.
Section 3.2. - Same; qualifications; oath.
(a)
To qualify for appointment as a judge of the Municipal Court of the City, a person shall be at least 30 years of age and a member of the State Bar of Georgia actually engaged in the practice of law in the State of Georgia for at least ten (10) years prior to his appointment. To hold office as a judge after such appointment, a person shall continue to possess such qualifications and shall not hold or qualify for any other public office.
(1953 Ga. Laws, page 2447; Ord. No. 415, 3-19-96; Ord. No. 772 , pt. II, 12-17-19)
Section 3.3. - Same; inquiries prior to appointment.
It shall be the duty of the mayor and council, before employing any person to act as municipal court judge, to diligently inquire into the fitness and qualifications of all persons under consideration. And they may, if they deem it necessary, refer said matter to an attorney at law of their own selection to make examination of the applicants or persons under consideration, and report his findings and recommendations with respect to qualifications and fitness for the office.
(1953 Ga. Laws, page 2447)
Section 3.4. - Officers authorized to serve notice and process.
Whenever it may become necessary in connection with any matter pending before the mayor and council, or before the Municipal's Court of the City of Chamblee, or before the judge or magistrate of said court for any notice, summons, or subpoena to be served, personal or otherwise, such service may be made or notice given by the marshal of the City of Chamblee, or by any police officer of said municipality; and such officers shall be authorized to make such service not only within the corporate limits, but may make the same anywhere within the state. Due return made by them shall be prima facie evidence of service. The provisions of this section are supplemental to all other authorized methods of service.
(1950 Ga. Laws, page 2807)
Editor's note— This section was enacted as a new unnumbered provision by 1950 Ga. Laws, page 2807.
ARTICLE 6. - SAVING CLAUSE

Section 1. - Recited.
In the event any article, section, paragraph, or provision of this act, in whole or in part, or any isolated portion of this act or of any provision herein contained, shall be declared illegal by a court of competent jurisdiction, such shall not have the effect of destroying or impairing the validity of the remaining part, unless expressly so held by a court of competent jurisdiction.
ARTICLE 7. - REPEALING CLAUSE

Section 1. - Recited.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act be and the same are hereby repealed.
