ARTICLE XI. - LICENSED CATERERS

Sec. 6-251. - Exception for licensed caterers.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, any licensed alcoholic beverage caterer, as that term is defined pursuant to O.C.G.A. ยง 3-114(2), as amended, who possesses a valid license from the City of Chamblee or another city or county in Georgia and possesses a valid license from the State of Georgia to sell malt beverages, wine or distilled spirits by the drink and/or by the package at a fixed location, may be issued by the city a caterered event permit authorizing such sales off-premises and in connection with a duly authorized catered event or function.
(Ord. No. 603, pt. I, 6-16-09; Ord. No. 737 , pt. IV, 4-18-17)
Sec 6-252. - Catered event permit and application.
(a)
All licensed alcoholic beverage caterers desiring to engage in activities permitted by this section, shall make written application to the finance director for the appropriate off-premises permit on forms prescribed by the finance director. The application shall include the name, address and telephone number of the applicant, the date, address and times of the proposed catered event and the licensed alcoholic beverage caterer's state license number. All applications shall be sworn to by the applicant before a notary public or other officer authorized to administer oaths.
(b)
The catered event permit fee shall be $50.00 per catered event for those caterers located outside the City of Chamblee; the event permit fee shall be waived for those caterers located inside the City of Chamblee.
(c)
If such off-premises permit is granted by the finance director, it shall be good only for the specific event at the specified address and times set forth in the application.
(d)
Any untrue or misleading information contained in, or material statement omitted from, an application for an off-premises permit shall be cause for the denial or revocation thereof.
(e)
A licensed alcoholic beverage caterer may only sell that which is authorized by his alcoholic beverage license. For example, if the alcoholic beverage caterer possesses a valid license to sell malt beverages, he may only sell malt beverages at the authorized catered event or function.
(f)
The original catered event permit for the specific event shall be kept in the vehicle transporting the alcoholic beverages to the catered event or function, and shall be available for inspection at the catered event or function during the duration of such event or function.
(g)
It is unlawful for any licensed alcoholic beverage caterer to engage in, carry on or conduct the sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages off-premises and in connection with a catered event or function without first having obtained a permit, as provided herein.
(h)
Except as set forth above in this section, an off-premises permit holder must comply with all other provisions set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 603, pt. I, 6-16-09; Ord. No. 737 , pt. V, 4-18-17; Ord. No. 801 , pt. XXXVI, 9-21-21)
