ARTICLE III. - SOLID WASTE COLLECTION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— An Ord. of 4-5-2021(1) , repealed the former Art. III, §§ 8-80—8-92, and enacted a new Art. III as set out herein. The former Art. III pertained to similar subject matter and derived from an Ord. of 11-7-49, § 1; Ord. of 2-3-1997, § 1; and Ord. of 4-19-1999, § 1.

Sec. 8-80. - Deposit of refuse on public or private property; use of city garbage containers; penalty.
(a)
Generally. No person within the city shall throw or dispose of any paper, trash, fruit, fruit peelings, food scrapes or any other garbage or refuse of any kind on the streets, sidewalks, or other public roads or public places nor shall any of such things be left open and exposed on the premises of any person. Except as provided in section 8-90 herein, all such garbage must be placed in a garbage container provided by the city to be disposed of as provided in this section.
(b)
Ownership and use. Such garbage containers are and shall remain property of the city. It shall be unlawful to remove any such garbage container from the address to which it is assigned without the written permission from the director of public works. It shall be unlawful for the owner of the property to which any such garbage container is assigned to allow such garbage container to remain on the curbside later than midnight on the day of garbage collection or to deposit such garbage container on the curbside of the property earlier than 5:00 p.m. of the day immediately preceding the next scheduled garbage pickup. The garbage container shall be stored by the property owner when not on the curbside in such a manner that it is not visible from the curbside of the property.
(c)
Penalty. Any person who shall violate this section shall be subject to the general penalty as set forth in section 10-17 of the code book. The director of public works and the chief of police and/or their designee are authorized and directed to make inspections for the orderly compliance with this section and to issue citations for any violation of this section.
(d)
For the purposes of this section, only household garbage shall be placed in such garbage/receptacle container.
( Ord. of 4-5-2021(1) , § 1(Att.))
Sec. 8-81. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them:
Biomedical waste. All waste defined as biomedical waste by the Solid Waste Management Act, or by the rules and regulations promulgate by the Environmental Protection Division under the authority of that Act, it also includes wastes such as human tissues, organs, and body parts and fluids that are removed during surgery or autopsy, or other medical procedures and specimens of body fluids and their containers. The City of Chatsworth prohibits the pickup of this type of refuse collection.
Bulky waste. Such items as large household appliances (i.e., washing machines, clothes dryers, water heaters, stoves, refrigerators, and dishwashers), furniture, tree stumps, larger timer, large bodies of carpet waste, large packing containers, tanks, and other items whose volumes are not significantly reduced through normal compaction methods.
Business day. A calendar day other that Saturday, Sunday, or public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A § 1-4-1.
Collection of refuse from residential property. The term "refuse" is defined as follows: Refuse shall consist of non-household garbage and shall include but not be limited to tree limbs, yard trimmings, leaves and other yard debris: carpet related waste; metal and metal goods; white goods; and paint and paint-related products. Construction or demolition waste means all waste defined as construction or demolition waste by the Solid Waste Management Act; or by the rules and regulations promulgated by the Environmental Protection Division under the authority of that Act. Reference Ord. Soil and Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control, Using Best Management Practices, Sec. IV; A-(l).
Day. A calendar day, unless otherwise specified.
Disposal or dispose. The discharge, deposit, discard, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, throwing, or placing of any solid waste or hazardous waste into or on any land or body of water.
Disposal site. The location where the final deposition of solid waste occurs.
Dump. To throw, discard, place, deposit, discharge, bury, burn, or dispose, of a substance.
Environmental protection agency. The Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, including but not limited to its director, and any successor entity or entities.
Hazardous waste. All waste defined as hazardous waste by the Hazardous Waste Management Act, or by the rules and regulations promulgated by the Environmental Protection Division under the authority of that Act.
Hazardous Waste Management Act. The Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act, codified at O.C.G.A §§ 12-8-60 through 12-8-83, as the same has been heretofore or may be hereafter amended.
Household hazardous waste. Hazardous waste used or generated in the household or similar source or any item, product or material containing or contaminated by any household.
Municipal solid waste. Any solid waste derived from households, including garbage, trash, and sanitary waste from single family residences.
Other wastes. Animal, fowl and fish excrement, entrails, bones, carcasses in whole or part of dead animals. City of Chatsworth prohibits the dumping of this type of waste.
Putrescible waste. wastes that are capable of being quickly decomposed by microorganisms. Examples of putrescible wastes include, but are not necessarily limited to, kitchen waste, animal manure, offal, and garbage.
Recycling. The process by which reclaimed resources are transformed into new products in such a manner that the original products may lose their identity.
Refuse. Shall consist of non-household garbage and shall include but not be limited to tree limbs, scrub trimmings, leaves, and other yard debris, carpet related waste, and metal goods, appliances, and interior and exterior related products.
Solid waste. Putrescible and nonputrescible waste except water-carried body waste and materials destined for recycling, and shall include garbage, ashes, street refuse, dead animals, animal manures, commercial waste, and demolition waste, food processing waste, yard trimmings and any other waste material in a solid or semi-solid state not otherwise defined in the division.
Trash. Yard wastes such as weeds, grass, leaves, small brush, small limbs and similar objects.
Yard trimmings/refuse. Leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and small tree pruning's, discarded Christmas trees, nursey and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter, resulting from landscaping development and maintenance other than agricultural, and silvicultural operations.
( Ord. of 4-5-2021(1) , § 1(Att.))
Sec. 8-82. - Disposal of construction materials.
Contractors shall be responsible for disposing of any and all debris resulting from remodeling, roofing, repairing, demolition or construction of any type.
( Ord. of 4-5-2021(1) , § 1(Att.))
Sec. 8-83. - Garbage containers.
The city will not furnish any garbage container to commercial establishments and shall only empty garbage containers from residential property owners.
( Ord. of 4-5-2021(1) , § 1(Att.))
Sec. 8-84. - New residential garbage containers.
The city public works director shall assign each new resident with a numbered garbage container. The garbage container shall be issued to the address of the residential property. Garbage picked up by the city must be bagged and placed within the garbage containers.
( Ord. of 4-5-2021(1) , § 1(Att.))
Sec. 8-85. - Condo complex (garbage).
Units that have public street access, the city shall pickup single garbage containers with mechanical arm truck. Units located within the private street network of a condo complex, the homeowners association shall provide garbage service for the complex.
( Ord. of 4-5-2021(1) , § 1(Att.))
Sec. 8-86. - Occupants of business premises and multi-family residential.
Each business owner and multi-family establishments shall be responsible for trash service or the placement of a liter receptacle or private garbage container installed on such property, and such receptacle or garbage container shall be of self-contained or with openings that can be opened and closed. The City of Chatsworth shall not be responsible for picking up the self-contained receptacles or privately owned garbage containers.
( Ord. of 4-5-2021(1) , § 1(Att.))
Sec. 8-87. - Garbage or trash from outside the city.
It will be unlawful for anyone to bring garbage or trash from outside the city and deposit it into trash containers inside the city limits.
( Ord. of 4-5-2021(1) , § 1(Att.))
Sec. 8-88. - On-site burial of waste prohibited.
The burial on a construction site of construction and demolition waste, liter, tree trunks, logs, limbs, and tops is prohibited.
( Ord. of 4-5-2021(1) , § 1(Att.))
Sec. 8-89. - Collected items.
The public works department shall collect items of refuse upon the following conditions:
(1)
Refuse shall be collected from residential property wholly within the corporate limits.
(2)
The refuse shall be generated wholly by the residential property owner or his/her lessee.
(3)
Refuse shall be placed upon the residential property on the curbside where the property and the right-of-way meet and shall not be placed upon any city street, alley or right-of- way.
(4)
The maximum volume per collection pickup shall be one truck load per weekly pickup days per resident.
(5)
Tree limbs, yard trimmings, leaves and other refuse. Provided, however, tree limbs trunks, branches or cuttings shall not exceed eight feet or 200 pounds in weight in the units to be handled, and shall be stacked separately with the butts end parallel to the center line of the street.
(6)
Leaves, yard trimmings, limbs and other yard debris shall be separate into separate piles and placed curbside. Yearly, leave pickup routes will begin on October 1 and ending the second week in February.
(7)
Carpet-related waste, metal and appliances shall be separated from other effuse.
a.
Limitations. The public works department shall not collect the following items of refuse.
1.
Tires.
2.
Paint and paint-related products in liquid form.
3.
Construction debris, demolition debris that were not from the residential dwelling.
4.
Refuse generated from commercial activity.
5.
Brush, stumps, tree trunks, and rocks, concrete which result from ground clearing, grading and other activities involving the use of heavy equipment and machinery.
b.
Schedule. Refuse shall be collected from residents on weekly business days of Monday and Thursday, exceptions of holiday schedules.
( Ord. of 4-5-2021(1) , § 1(Att.))
Sec. 8-90. - Yard trimmings.
(a)
Yard trimmings disposal regulations. Definitions:
Commercial solid waste. All types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other non-manufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
Composting. The controlled biological decomposition of organic matter into a stable, odor-free humus.
Leachate collection system. A system at a landfill for collection of the leachate which may percolate through the waste and into the soils surrounding the landfill.
Municipal solid waste. Any solid waste derived from households, including garbage, trash and sanitary waste in septic tanks and includes solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day use recreation areas. The term includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste but does not include solid waste from mining, agricultural or silvacultural operations or industrial processes or operations.
Municipal solid waste disposal facility. Any facility or locations where the final deposition of any amount of municipal solid waste occurs, whether or not mixed with or including commercial or industrial solid waste, including but not limited to municipal solid waste landfills.
Municipal solid waste landfill. A disposal facility where any amount of municipal solid waste, whether or not mixed with or including commercial waste, industrial waste, nonhazardous sludges or small quantity generator hazardous waste, is disposed of by means of placing an approved cover thereon.
Yard trimmings. Leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree pruning's, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and green house vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance, other than miming, agricultural and silvacultural operations.
(b)
Placement and disposal of yard trimmings; prohibitions.
(1)
It shall be unlawful to place or mix yard trimmings and municipal solid waste within the city.
(2)
Yard trimmings shall not be disposed at any municipal solid waste disposal facility having a liner and leachate collection system or requiring vertical expansion owned in full or part by the city.
(c)
Sorting, storing, composting and collecting yard trimmings. Yard trimmings shall be sorted and stored in separate sections from household garbage.
( Ord. of 4-5-2021(1) , § 1(Att.))
Sec. 8-91—8-100. - Reserved.
