APPENDIX A-C. - ZONING PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS
RESOLUTION REPEALING IN ITS ENTIRETY THE ZONING PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF CHATSWORTH, GEORGIA, DATED MAY 7, 2001, AND ADOPTING HEREWITH AN ORDINANCE TO BE KNOWN AS,
ZONING PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS ORDINANCE CITY OF CHATSWORTH, GEORGIA
WHEREAS, The City of Chatsworth, Georgia last adopted The Zoning Procedures and Standards Ordinance of the City of Chatsworth, Georgia, dated May 7, 2001, and
WHEREAS, The Mayor and Council of the City of Chatsworth deems that, for the protection of the health, welfare, safety, and morals of the citizens of the City of Chatsworth, it shall be necessary to set forth certain standards and procedures for use by it when it shall exercise its zoning authority so as to insure that due process is afforded to the general public as required by the Constitution of the United States and of the State of Georgia;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that The Zoning Procedures and Standards Ordinance of the City of Chatsworth, Georgia, dated May 7, 2001 shall herewith be repealed in its entirety and replaced herewith by the adoption of a new ordinance, to be known as Zoning Procedures and Standards Ordinance, City of Chatsworth, Georgia, as follows:
ZONING PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS ORDINANCE
CITY OF CHATSWORTH, GEORGIA
An Ordinance of the City of Chatsworth, Georgia establishing minimum procedural regulations, notice of public hearings, conduct of public hearings, standards, and factors, governing the zoning power of the City of Chatsworth, Georgia, as of the effective date hereof; and for other purposes.

1.0 - Preamble and Enactment Clause.
For the purpose of insuring that due process is afforded to the general public when the City of Chatsworth, Georgia regulates the use of property through the exercise of zoning power, and pursuant to the authority and mandates of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1983, Article IX, Section II, Paragraph IV and Chapter Sixty-Six of Title Thirty-Six of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated (OCGA ยง36-66-1 et seq.), the City of Chatsworth, Georgia does hereby adopt, order, and enact into law this Ordinance.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
2.0 - Definitions.
When used in this Ordinance, the following terms shall have the definitions and meaning hereafter set forth, alphabetically:
Conditional Use (synonymous with Special Use). A use approved within a zone district, generally considered compatible with the other uses allowed in the district, only after due consideration of objective criteria as applicable to the proposed conditional use.
Planning Commission. The Chatsworth Planning Commission or any other agency hereafter designated by the governing authority of the City of Chatsworth which is authorized to investigate any proposal for a zoning decision properly coming before it, to conduct any public hearings necessary for the exercise of any zoning power, and to provide an advisory recommendation to the governing authority concerning the proposed zoning decision.
Territorial Boundaries. The incorporated areas of the City of Chatsworth, State of Georgia.
Zoning. The power of the City of Chatsworth to provide within its territorial boundaries for the zoning and districting of property for various uses and the prohibition of other or different uses within such zones or districts and for the regulation of development and the improvement of real estate within such zones or districts in accordance with the uses of property for which said zones or districts were established.
Zoning Decision. The final legislative action by the City of Chatsworth which results in:
a)
the adoption of a zoning ordinance;
b)
the adoption of an amendment to a zoning ordinance which changes the text of the zoning ordinance;
c)
the adoption of an amendment to a zoning ordinance which rezones property from one zoning classification to another;
d)
the adoption of an amendment to a zoning ordinance which zones property that is annexed to the territorial boundaries of the City of Chatsworth, State of Georgia; or
e)
the approval of a conditional use (special use) of property.
Zoning Ordinance. An Ordinance for the City of Chatsworth establishing procedures and zones or districts within its territorial boundaries, which regulate the uses and development standards of property within such zones or districts. The term also includes the Zoning Map (as hereinafter amended) adopted in conjunction with the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Chatsworth, which shows the zones and districts and zoning classification of property herein.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
3.0 - Amendment.
This Ordinance and the Zoning Ordinance of Chatsworth, Georgia may be amended from time to time subject to the following conditions:
3.1
No Amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been initiated by either the Mayor and Council of the City of Chatsworth, the Planning Commission, the property owner(s) or an individual who has the owner(s)' power of attorney authorizing such person to act, or a request signed by sixty (60) percent of the property owners who hold not less than sixty (60) percent of the affected land; or valid annexation procedures as defined by OCGA ยง36-36-1 et seq.
3.2
All proposed amendments or conditional use reviews shall be initiated by an application filed with the Zoning Administrator of Chatsworth upon forms provided by the City of Chatsworth. A standard fee to be set from time to time by the governing authority shall be paid with the application.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
4.0 - Public Notice.
Notice of the public hearing upon a proposed amendment to this Ordinance or for a proposed zoning decision shall be given as hereinafter set forth:
4.1
At least fifteen (15), but not more than forty-five (45) days prior to the date set for the public hearing, a written notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Chatsworth setting forth the time, place, and purpose of the hearing.
4.2
In addition to the requirements of subsection 4.1, if the proposed amendment calls for a zoning decision for the 1) rezoning of property; 2) annexation to the territorial boundaries of the City of Chatsworth; or 3) approval of a conditional (special) use permit, and the proposed amendment is initiated by a person other than the Mayor and Council of the City of Chatsworth:
4.2-1
The published notice shall include the location of the property and state the present zoning classification of the property (if applicable) and the proposed zoning classification of the property (if applicable); and the proposed use requiring a special use (conditional use) review (if applicable); and
4.2-2
A sign shall be placed in a conspicuous location on the property that is the subject of the zoning decision setting forth the time, place and purpose of the public hearing, the present zoning classification of the property, and the proposed zoning classification of the property (if applicable), and (if applicable) the proposed use requiring a special use (conditional use) review. Acts of vandalism or natural occurrences limiting the effectiveness of notice by a sign posted on the property shall not invalidate any proceedings or action taken on the proposed amendment.
4.2-3
The City of Chatsworth shall notify by regular mail all abutting property owners, including those that would abut if not separated by the width of a public street or railroad right-of-way, as to the date, time, and purpose of the proposed zoning decision, at least seven (7) working days prior to the date of the public hearing. Notification shall be sent to those property owners shown to be the owners by the Murray County Tax Records upon the date of the filing of the application for zoning decision. Failure of an abutting owner to receive timely notice shall not void the proceedings.
4.3
If the zoning decision is for property to be annexed into the City of Chatsworth, then:
4.3-1
The City of Chatsworth shall complete the procedures required by this chapter for such zoning, except for the final vote of the municipal governing authority, prior to adoption of the annexation ordinance or resolution or the effective date of any local Act but no sooner than the date the notice of the proposed annexation is provided to the governing authority of the county as required pursuant to OCGA ยง36-36-6;
4.3-2
In addition to the requirements of Section 4.3-1, the City of Chatsworth shall provide notice of the hearing as required under the provisions of Section 4.0, herein; and
4.3-3
The hearing required by Section 4.0 of this Ordinance shall be conducted prior to the annexation of the subject property into the City of Chatsworth;
4.3-4
The zoning classification approved by the City of Chatsworth following the hearing required herein, shall become effective on the later of a) the date the zoning is approved by the City of Chatsworth; or b) the date that the annexation becomes effective pursuant to OCGA ยง36-36-2.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
5.0 - Public Hearing.
A public hearing upon the adoption of or for any proposed amendment to this Ordinance or to the Zoning Ordinance of Chatsworth shall be held before the Planning Commission on behalf of the Mayor and Council of Chatsworth. A public hearing shall be conducted at the time and place specified by the Planning Commission and as set forth in the public notice described in Section 4.0 of this Article. The purpose of such hearing shall be to present to the public the proposed zoning amendment, and to receive comments thereon from the public. The Planning Commission shall consider the proceedings and comments of such hearing in making any zoning recommendation on the proposed zoning amendment. The Planning Commission shall prescribe the rules of order for its deliberations on matters with which it is charged under this Ordinance, and said rules of order shall be consistent with the general requirements and purposes set forth in this Ordinance and other laws of the State of Georgia concerning conduct of proceedings of public commissions, bodies, and governmental units.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
6.0 - Conduct of Hearings.
The following policies and procedures shall govern the conduct of public hearings under this Ordinance:
6.1
The Chairman of the Planning Commission or his/her delegate on the Commission shall open any hearing with an explanation of the purpose of the hearing and a description of the general rules for the conduct of the hearing. The Chairman or his/her delegate may describe the authority and role of the Planning Commission in any zoning decision. An individual requesting to be heard on a matter germane to the purpose of the hearing must be recognized by the Chairman or his/her delegate before addressing the Planning Commission. The Chairman or his/her delegate shall chair the hearing and shall determine germaneness of any proposed comment or presentation to the Planning Commission in the hearing and is authorized to rule any individual or a portion of any presentation out of order if not germane to the published purpose of the hearing. Any person requesting to address the Planning Commission upon being recognized by the Chairman or his/her delegate shall state his name and residence address before proceeding with any comment, remarks, or presentation. Any person addressing the Planning Commission shall respond to questions of the Chairman or any member of the Commission. The Chairman or his/her delegate may pre-determine the length of any hearing allotting equal time to proponents and opponents of any proposed zoning amendment to the extent that there are both proponents and opponents who desire to be heard. The Chairman or his/her delegate shall only be required to offer equal time to both proponents and opponents of any proposed zoning amendment and the fact that equal time is not in fact utilized by either position shall not invalidate any proceedings or action taken on the proposed amendment. The Chairman, however, shall allow a minimum time period to be no less than ten (10) minutes per side for the presentation of data, evidence, and opinion.
6.2
The Chairman or his/her delegate shall determine whether any application for zoning amendment is properly filed and the type of zoning decision for which the proposed amendment calls. The Chairman or his/her delegate shall confirm the giving of proper public notice of the hearing on the proposed zoning amendment in accordance with this Ordinance.
6.3
The Chairman or his/her delegate shall allow the person initiating the proposed zoning amendment or his/her/its designee to present a description of the proposed zoning amendment and the reason(s) for initiating the proposed zoning amendment. A failure of the applicant or his/her representative holding power-of-attorney to be present for the hearing shall result in automatic termination of any proceedings on the amendment and an adverse recommendation on the proposed amendment shall be forwarded to the Mayor and Council of the City of Chatsworth, unless the applicant can show just cause by reason of health emergency, in which case the application may be re-filed by the applicant for consideration at a later date.
6.4
The Chairman or his/her delegate shall enter into the record after the presentation of the applicant or his/her/its representative any written comment, petition, or similar written statement received by the Planning Commission prior to the hearing and the same shall be considered by the Mayor and Council with comments and proceedings of the hearing in making any zoning decision concerning the proposed zoning amendment.
6.5
The Chairman or his/her delegate shall give persons opposed to the proposed amendment the opportunity to address the Planning Commission.
6.6
The Chairman or his/her delegate may alternate the presentations of persons speaking in favor of and opposed to the proposed zoning amendment beginning with the presentation of the applicant or his/her/its representative, or the Chairman or his/her delegate may divide such presentations into blocks of time beginning with proponents of the proposed zoning amendment, and thereafter moving to the presentations of opponents of the proposed zoning amendment. Further, the Chairman or his/her delegate may direct that proponents and opponents designate one or more spokesperson(s) for representations of favorable and opposing views of the proposed zoning amendment. The Chairman or his/her delegate may poll the public assemblage at the hearing concerning their concurrence in the remarks of any speaker.
6.7
Any remark amounting to attack on the character or personal integrity of another individual, or comment not factually supportable, or comment in the form of an emotional outburst, shall be non-germane to the purpose of any hearing and may be ruled out of order.
6.8
Upon conclusion of the presentation of persons opposing the proposed zoning amendment, the Chairman or his/her delegate shall afford the person initiating the petition an allotted time to address the Planning Commission in rebuttal of any issue(s) raised by persons addressing the Planning Commission in opposition to the proposed zoning amendment. The Chairman or his/her delegate may rule out of order the raising of any new issue(s) in rebuttal unless he deems the raising of such new issues useful to the purposes of the hearing, in which case those persons present and opposing the proposed zoning amendment shall be allocated an equal amount of time through a spokesperson or otherwise to address such new issue(s).
6.9
When proponents and opponents of the proposed zoning amendment have been heard in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the Chairman or his/her delegate shall declare the public hearing closed. No further public hearing on the proposed zoning amendment shall be required prior to the final zoning decision.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
7.0 - Zoning Standards.
Exercise of the zoning power of the City of Chatsworth shall constitute an effort to balance the interest of the community in promoting the public health, safety, morality, or general welfare against the right of property owners to the unrestricted use of their property. The following standards are determined to be relevant in balancing the interest in promoting the public health, safety, morality, or general welfare against the right to unrestricted use of the property.
7.1
Standards:
7.1-1
Whether the proposed amendment would allow a use that is generally suitable for the site compared to other possible uses and the uses and zoning of adjacent and nearby properties;
7.1-2
Whether the proposed amendment would adversely affect the economic value or the uses of adjacent and nearby properties;
7.1-3
Whether the property to be affected by the proposed amendment can be used as currently zoned;
7.1-4
Whether the proposed amendment, if adopted, would result in a use which would or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, schools, sewers, water resources, police and fire protection, or other utilities;
7.1-5
Whether the subject property under the proposed amendment is in conformity with the policies and intent of the adopted Murray County, Chatsworth, and Eton Joint Comprehensive Plan, 2005-2025 or equivalent, as amended.
7.1-6
Whether there are other conditions or transitional patterns affecting the use and development of the subject property, if applicable, which give grounds for either approval or disapproval of the proposed amendment.
7.2
The City of Chatsworth shall consider any proposed zoning amendment properly initiated in light of the standards set forth in Section 7.1. In evaluating the standards set forth in Section 7.1 it shall be the policy of the City of Chatsworth to exercise its zoning power in conformity with the policy and intent of the Joint Comprehensive Plan for Murray County and the City of Chatsworth insofar as that plan is current in its application to the specific property that is the subject of the proposed amendment. It is further the policy of the City of Chatsworth to exercise the zoning power for purposes of assuring the compatibility of the use of adjacent and nearby properties and the preservation of the economic value of adjacent and nearby properties while enabling a reasonable use of all property.
7.3
Conditional Use (Special Use). The granting of a conditional use does not constitute a permanent change in zoning or use. The conditional use may be forfeited if it does not meet the review criteria. To ameliorate the impact of a conditional use upon surrounding property, no conditional use may be granted without special provisions for conditions, criteria, standards, and/or requirements as to the particular use. A permit for a conditional use (special use) shall be approved or denied, provided that due consideration is given to the following objective criteria as applicable to the specific use proposed at the specific site requested:
7.3-1
Whether the proposed use impacts negatively or positively the anticipated volume of traffic flow or pedestrian safety in the vicinity;
7.3-2
Whether the hours and manner of operation of the conditional use (special use) have no adverse effects on other properties/uses in the vicinity;
7.3-3
Whether refuse areas, parking, or loading/service areas on the property will be located or screened to protect other properties in the vicinity from noise, light, glare, or odors;
7.3-4
Whether the height, size, or location on the building or other structures on the property are compatible with the height, size, or location of buildings or other structures on neighboring properties;
7.3-5
Whether the size of the lot is sufficient for the proposed use, accounting for growth opportunity that will not infringe upon the requirements of the zoning ordinance nor infringe upon the relationship to surrounding land;
7.3-6
And satisfying the foregoing criteria, whether the benefits of and need for the proposed use are greater than any possible depreciating effects and damages to the neighboring properties.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
8.0 - Official Action.
Consideration of any proposed zoning decision properly initiated and subsequent to the public hearing shall be as follows:
8.1
The planning staff of the City of Chatsworth shall make a report of its investigation of the proposed zoning decision to the Planning Commission commenting on the advisability of adopting any proposed zoning amendment. The report of the planning staff shall be in writing addressed to the Planning Commission. Further, the planning staff's report shall provide an evaluation of each of the standards set forth in Section 7.1 (or Section 7.3, as applicable) and describe how the planning staff's advice is considered to be consistent with the exercise of zoning power set forth in Section 7.2. A summary of the proceedings of the public hearing shall accompany the Planning Commission's written recommendation to the Mayor and Council.
8.2
Upon conclusion of the public hearing, the Planning Commission may approve, disapprove, or table the proposed zoning decision. The Planning Commission may recommend and/or the Mayor and Council may amend an application prior to acting thereon: 1) to reduce the size of the area affected by the amendment; 2) to change the requested zone district to a less intensive or lower density district than the requested zone; 3) to specify conditions that are deemed relevant to the public interest regarding site plans, ingress/egress, buffers, and infrastructure related to drainage, utilities, traffic, and other matters. The foregoing powers are not in limitation of any other zoning powers accorded the City of Chatsworth under the laws of the State of Georgia. If the Planning Commission fails to recommend action on the zoning decision in writing within forty-five (45) days of the close of the public hearing and the applicant does not agree in writing to an extension of the time limit, the applicant may take the proposed zoning decision to the Mayor and Council without a Planning Commission recommendation.
If consideration of the proposed zoning amendment is tabled, it shall be reconsidered by the Planning Commission not later than its next regular monthly meeting. In any event, the Commission shall have forty-five (45) days from the date of the close of the public hearing before the Planning Commission to review and submit its written recommendation to the Mayor and Council of Chatsworth. Once an application for a zoning decision has been filed and the Planning Commission holds the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall make a recommendation on the proposed zoning decision and the Mayor and Council shall take a final action, regardless of whether or not the applicant withdraws his/her/its application for the proposed amendment.
8.3
The authority of the Planning Commission and planning staff in any zoning decision shall be advisory only. Any zoning decision shall be made by the Mayor and Council of the City of Chatsworth, who shall either approve or disapprove the proposed zoning amendment. Any approval of a proposed zoning decision may be subject to any and all lawful conditions determined by the governing authority that are attached to the ordinance approving the proposed zoning decision.
8.4
If the Mayor and Council of the City of Chatsworth shall take official action defeating a proposed zoning amendment which seeks to rezone property or approve a conditional (special) use, the same property may not be considered again for rezoning or conditional (special) use until the expiration of twelve (12) months from the date of the official action of the Mayor and Council.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
9.0 - Distribution.
Copies of this Zoning Procedures and Standards Ordinance, as amended, shall be printed and copies thereof made available for distribution to the general public in the offices of the City Clerk or Zoning Administrator of the City of Chatsworth, Georgia. Distribution to the general public shall be upon request of a member of the general public who shall be entitled to one copy. The Clerk of the City of Chatsworth, Georgia, is authorized to print copies of this Ordinance and any amendments thereto from time to time for purposes of meeting distribution requirements of The Zoning Procedures Law (Title 36, Chapter 66 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated).
( Ord. of 10-09 )
10.0 - Legal Status.
10.1
Separability. Should any section or provision of this Ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the Ordinance as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
10.2
Repeal of Conflicting Resolutions and Ordinances. All resolutions and Ordinances and parts of resolutions and Ordinances in conflict herewith are repealed.
10.3
Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect and be enforced from and after its adoption, the public welfare of the City of Chatsworth requiring it.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
