Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - City ordinance defined.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters, articles and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Chattahoochee Hills, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Ord. No. 07-12-01, art. 1, § 1, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Code, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. As consistent with the Charter, definitions shall be construed liberally in favor of the city.
Charter. The term "Charter" refers to the enabling legislation creating a municipal charter for the city enacted as SB 553 during the General Session of the 2007 General Assembly.
City. The term "city" refers to the City of Chattahoochee Hills, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means the Code of Ordinances of the City of Chattahoochee Hills, Georgia.
Council. The term "council" means the five councilmembers and the mayor.
Councilmember. The term "councilmember" refers to the individual members of the city council.
County. The term "county" means Fulton County, Georgia.
Fire department. The term "fire department" refers to the county fire department or the city fire department, whichever provides services to the city.
Gender. A word importing one gender shall extend and be applied to the other genders, except where inappropriate.
Keeper, proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons as the term "person" is defined herein, whether acting by themselves or through an agent or employee.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Number. A word importing only the singular number may extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing.
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation in all cases in which by law an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." refers to the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Officials. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of the City of Chattahoochee Hills" were added thereto.
Owner. The term "owner" applies to a building or land and shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or person in possession under a bond for title.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations, and bodies political and corporate, or any combination thereof, as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as herein defined.
Police. The term "police" refers to the police department or police chief of the county or of the city, whichever is serving as the police force for the city.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, shopping center, schoolyard, or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature, subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "the state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" means and includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, lane, viaduct, bridge, and the approaches thereto and area owned or dedicated as public right of way, within the city.
Tenant, occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," applied to a building or land, include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Title of officer or official. Whenever the title of an officer is given, it shall be construed as though the words "of the City of Chattahoochee Hills" were added.
Week. The term "week" means seven calendar days unless otherwise specified.
Written, in writing. The terms "written" and "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Ord. No. 07-12-01, art. 2, § 1, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 1-3. - Non-exclusivity.
Terms not defined by section 1-2 may be defined elsewhere in this Code.
(Ord. No. 07-12-01, art. 2, § 2, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 1-4. - General penalty.
(a)
Unless specified elsewhere in the Code, any violation of this Code shall be punishable up to a maximum penalty allowed by state law or the City Charter.
(b)
All fines shall be paid into the city treasury.
(c)
Community service may be substituted for the fine with the rate of hourly work set to that of the federal minimum wage.
(d)
If it is deemed by a court of competent jurisdiction that a punishment imposed under this section conflicts with the laws of the state, then state law applies to that particular punishment.
(e)
In addition to the penalties provided in subsection (a) of this section, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated by the city, as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Ord. No. 07-12-01, art. 3, § 1, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 1-5. - Exercise of powers.
The powers of the city may be exercised, as provided by the charter, by the city, and by the parties with whom the city contracts for municipal services.
(Ord. No. 07-12-01, art. 4, § 1, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 1-6. - Severability.
It is declared to be the intention of the council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this Code.
(Ord. No. 07-12-01, art. 4, § 2, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 1-7. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections and subsections of this Code are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections or subsections, nor as any part of the section or subsection, nor unless expressly so provided shall they be so deemed when any of such sections or subsections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Ord. No. 07-12-01, art. 4, § 3, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 1-8. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect.
(Ord. No. 07-12-01, art. 4, § 4, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 1-9. - Amendments to code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to the passage of the ordinances originally included herein, which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and added hereto. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section of The Code of the City of Chattahoochee Hills, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provision may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not theretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That The Code of the City of Chattahoochee Hills, Georgia is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which said section (or article or chapter) reads as follows:…." The new section (or article or chapter) may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters, or provisions desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Ord. No. 07-12-01, art. 4, § 5, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 1-10. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement. Charter amendments may be included in like manner.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ through _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code that embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but, in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Ord. No. 07-12-01, art. 4, § 6, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 1-11. - Provisions considered as continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are substantially the same as ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Ord. No. 07-12-01, art. 4, § 7, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 1-12. - Altering Code, ordinance or other public document.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, mutilate, or in any other manner alter any ordinance book or minute book, or any notice posted by the city for the benefit of the public, or any other document or record of the municipal government of the city.
(Ord. No. 07-12-01, art. 4, § 8, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 1-13. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any rates, fees or charges consistent with this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(3)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations, such as prescribing through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic or limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones;
(4)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code fixing salaries of, or providing policies and programs for, providing retirement, disability or death benefits for, officials, officers or employees of the city;
(5)
Any budget ordinance or appropriation ordinance; any ordinance levying any tax;
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution;
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening or vacating any street or public way in the city;
(8)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes for local improvements;
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city;
(11)
Any ordinance establishing or changing the boundary of the city;
(12)
Any zoning ordinance or any ordinance regulating subdivisions or any ordinance regulating signs or any ordinance regulating building design standards;
(13)
Any resolution of the city not in conflict with this Code.
All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Ord. No. 07-12-01, art. 4, § 9, 12-12-2007)
