Chapter 30 - TRAFFIC AND PUBLIC ROADWAYS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - Adoption of state and federal laws.
(a)
For the purpose of regulating vehicles and traffic in the city, there is hereby adopted the following federal regulations:
(1)
Parts 382, 383, 390, 391, 392, 393, 395, 396, and 397 of Title 49 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, "The Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1986;" and
(2)
The federal out of service criteria as amended from time to time.
These provisions are adopted as fully as if set out at length herein.
(b)
Adoption of state law by reference.
(1)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 40, chapter 6, O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-372 through 40-6-376, O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-1 through 40-6-395, known as the "Uniform Rules of the Road" and the definitions contained in O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1 are hereby adopted as and for the traffic regulations of this municipality with like effect as if recited herein.
(2)
Penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided for by law, every person convicted of any provision of this chapter shall be punished as provided by section 1-4.
(c)
Any ordinance and/or part of this chapter which specifically designates the speed limits on the public streets of the city and/or which designates one-way streets are not affected by the adoption of the "Uniform Rules of the Road."
(d)
City streets shall be divided into at least three categories. Speed limits for those designated categories shall be set forth in an appendix to this Code.
(e)
The police department is hereby empowered and authorized to enforce all provisions of this chapter upon all roads in the city.
(Ord. No. 08-05-36, art. 1, § 1, 5-6-2008)
Secs. 30-2—30-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TRAFFIC CONTROL

Sec. 30-21. - Temporary traffic regulations.
In cases where traffic upon the streets of the city may become congested upon occasions of parades, at theaters, and other public assemblages where large numbers of vehicles are assembled, the police may make temporary rules directing and regulating the traffic in these congested districts, and any person, who, after being warned of the temporary traffic regulations, shall violate them shall be liable for that violation as for other violations of this code.
(Ord. No. 08-05-36, art. 1, § 2, 5-6-2008)
Sec. 30-22. - Funeral processions.
(a)
The term "funeral procession" means a group of vehicles traveling from a funeral home or similar business to a cemetery or other proper burial site. Funeral processions shall be led by a funeral vehicle such as a hearse, and all cars in the procession shall burn regular headlights and stay in close formation.
(b)
Vehicles of a funeral procession shall have the right-of-way over all vehicles, except authorized emergency vehicles, provided such vehicles shall identify themselves by burning regular headlights and shall keep in close formation. When the lead vehicle in a funeral procession has entered an intersection on a green light, all other cars in the procession may proceed through the intersection, even though such signal may change to red.
(Ord. No. 08-05-36, art. 1, § 3, 5-6-2008)
Secs. 30-23—30-47. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TRUCK ROUTES

Sec. 30-48. - Enactment authority.
The mayor and city council, under the authority of article 9, section 2, paragraph II (Home Rule for Municipalities) and article 9, section 2, paragraph III (Supplementary Powers) of the 1983 Constitution of the State of Georgia, as amended, hereby ordain and enact into law this article.
(Ord. No. 08-05-36, art. 2, § 1, 5-6-2008)
Sec. 30-49. - Purpose.
The governing authority of the city is authorized to adopt ordinances for the governing and policing of areas within the city limits for the purpose of protecting the public health safety and welfare. Specifically, the governing authority may provide for the regulation and control of motorized vehicles on the streets of the city; plan, designate, improve, manage, control and maintain an adequate city roadway system; and determine the maximum load, weight and vehicle dimensions which can be safely transported over each bridge on the city roadway system. Accordingly, the mayor and city council hereby enact the following provisions in an effort to regulate and control motorized vehicles within the city limits for the purpose of protecting and preserving the public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens; to thereby curb the usage of certain residential streets in the city by trucks as cut through routes, and to discourage the parking of such vehicles on these streets and public rights-of-way.
(Ord. No. 08-05-36, art. 2, § 2, 5-6-2008)
Sec. 30-50. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bimodal semitrailer means a detachable load-carrying unit designed to be attached to a coupling on the rear of a truck by which it is partially supported during movement over the highway and designed either with retractable flanged wheels or to attach to a detachable flanged wheel assembly for movement on the rails.
Driver means every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
Governing authority means the mayor and city council and, where delegated by the mayor and council, the city police department and/or any other city personnel.
Gross weight means the weight of a vehicle without load plus the weight of any load thereon.
Motor vehicle means every vehicle that is self-propelled.
Operator means any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a motor vehicle.
Owner means a person, other than a lienholder or security interest holder, having the property in or title to a vehicle. The term "owner" includes a person entitled to the use and possession of a vehicle subject to a security interest in or lien by another person but excludes a lessee under a lease not intended as security except as otherwise specifically provided in this title.
Person means every natural person, firm, copartnership, association, or corporation.
Pneumatic tire means every tire in which compressed air is designed to support the load. A vehicle shall be considered equipped with pneumatic tires when pneumatic tires are used on all wheels.
Pole trailer means every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach or pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
Police office means every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
Private road or driveway means every way or place in private ownership and used for vehicular traffic by the owner and those having express or implied permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
Public or private property means the right-of-way of any road or highway; any body of water or watercourse or the shores thereof; any park, playground, building, refuge or conservation or recreation area, and residential or farm properties, timberland or forest.
Roadway means that portion of a street, road, or highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" shall refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all such roadways collectively.
Semitrailer means a detachable load-carrying unit designed to be attached to a coupling on the rear of a truck by which it is partially supported.
Sidewalk means that portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines of a railway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by pedestrians.
Stand orstanding means the halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or discharging passengers.
Stop orstopping:
(1)
When required, means complete cessation from movement; or
(2)
When prohibited, means any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign or signal.
Tractor means any self-propelled vehicle designed for use as a traveling power plant or for drawing other vehicles but having no provision for carrying loads independently.
Trailer means every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
Truck means any motor vehicle having a gross weight of 18,000 pounds or over which is designed and used for the transportation of merchandise or freight.
Truck camper means any structure designed, used or maintained primarily to be loaded on or affixed to a motor vehicle to provide a mobile dwelling, sleeping place, office or commercial space.
(Ord. No. 08-05-36, art. 2, § 3, 5-6-2008)
Sec. 30-51. - Restrictive vehicles required to use truck routes; exceptions.
All trucks are prohibited from using roadways within the city limits, except those roadways authorized by this article as truck routes, including any amendments hereof, or as may be further designated by the governing authority as truck routes, except when:
(1)
The terminal, parking lot, repair garage, or headquarters of the restricted motor vehicle is not a designated truck route, ingress to and egress from those places shall be made by the most direct route available between the terminal, parking lot, repair garage or headquarters and nearest designated truck route;
(2)
A delivery or pickup is to be made at a location which is not on a designated truck route; ingress to and egress from that location shall be made by the most direct route available between that location and the nearest designated truck route.
(Ord. No. 08-05-36, art. 2, § 4, 5-6-2008)
Sec. 30-52. - Truck routes; posted regulatory signs.
A list and map of approved truck routes shall be kept on file with the city police department and the city clerk. The list of truck routes may be revised as deemed necessary by the city police department with the approval of the governing authority, with the entire list requiring renewal by the governing authority biannually. All listed routes will be further identified by posted regulatory signs.
(1)
Vehicles meeting the restriction shall be permitted to utilize Georgia Highway 154, as a means to travel through the city limits and shall be considered a truck route.
(2)
In the case that a designated truck route does not provide sufficient access through the city, a written petition describing why the designated truck route is insufficient and suggesting proposed additional or alternative truck routes may be submitted along with a certified traffic study for both the existing truck route and the proposed alternative truck routes to the city manager requesting a designation of alternative truck routes. Upon receipt of such petition, the city council may consider such request and designate alternative truck routes if it is found necessary and proper.
(3)
The city council may develop such alternative routes if the city council makes a finding on the city's own accord that such alternative routing is necessary and proper.
(4)
This article shall not apply to any police, fire, ambulance or other public safety vehicle; vehicles owned or operated by the city; or vehicles owned or operated by designated representatives or contractors of the city actively engaged in the repair, maintenance or construction of city streets, street improvements or utilities within the city's rights-of-way.
(Ord. No. 08-05-36, art. 2, § 5, 5-6-2008)
Sec. 30-53. - Use of temporary truck routes by restricted vehicles.
If a designated truck route, or any portion thereof, shall be under repair or otherwise temporarily out of use, restricted vehicles, as defined in this article, shall use other temporary truck routes as may be designated by the governing authority and further identified by the posting of the regulatory traffic control sign.
(Ord. No. 08-05-36, art. 2, § 6, 5-6-2008)
Sec. 30-54. - Evidence required for restricted vehicle to be off truck route.
When upon roadways other than those designated as truck routes, any person driving or in charge or control of any of the motor vehicles restricted by this article shall be prepared to present for inspection of police officers his log book, weight slips, delivery slips or other written evidence of his destination and point of origin to justify the presence of the restricted vehicle on a roadway other than a designated truck route.
(Ord. No. 08-05-36, art. 2, § 7, 5-6-2008)
Sec. 30-55. - Weight of vehicle and loads.
No vehicle shall be operated on any roadway within the city limits designated as a truck route, with a total gross weight in excess of 56,000 pounds unless the vehicle is making a pickup or delivery on such road. The maximum gross weight of any vehicle operating on any roadway within the city limits shall not exceed 80,000 pounds.
(Ord. No. 08-05-36, art. 2, § 8, 5-6-2008)
Sec. 30-56. - Weight limitations on streets, bridges and culverts.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle on any street within the city limits where the weight of such motor vehicle, with or without load, is in excess of the weight as limited by this article and where signs indicating such limitations are posted. Further, it shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle over a bridge or culvert within the city limits over the weight capacity shown on said bridge and/or culvert.
(b)
The driver and/or owner shall be liable to the city for any and all damages caused by driving an overweight motor vehicle over any street, bridge and/or culvert with a posted sign. These damages are in addition to any fine or punishment that may be assessed for violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 08-05-36, art. 2, § 9, 5-6-2008)
Sec. 30-57. - Enforcement of weight and load limitations.
(a)
Any person who violates the load limitations provisions of this article shall be conclusively presumed to have damaged the public roads, including bridges within the city limits by reason of such overloading and shall, in addition to any other penalty at law, recompense the city for such damages in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 32-6-27, as same may be amended.
(b)
Any owner or operator of a vehicle which is operated on the public roads within the city limits in violation of the weight limits provided in this article shall be required, in addition to paying the monies provided in subsection (a) of this section, to unload all gross weight in excess of 6,000 pounds over the legal weight limit before being allowed to move the vehicle.
(c)
Any person authorized by state law and this article to enforce this article may seize the offending vehicle of an owner who fails or whose operator has failed to pay the monies proscribed in subsection (a) of O.C.G.A. § 32-6-27 and hold such vehicle until the proscribed monies are paid. Any authorized person seizing such vehicle under this subsection or subsection (b) of this section may, when necessary, store the vehicle, and the owner thereof shall be responsible for all reasonable storage charges thereon. When any vehicle is seized, held, unloaded or partially unloaded under this section, the load or any part thereof shall be removed or cared for by the owner or operator of the vehicle without any liability on the part of the authorized person or the city because of damage to or loss of such load or any part thereof.
(Ord. No. 08-05-36, art. 2, § 10, 5-6-2008)
Sec. 30-58. - Parking of trucks and trailers.
It shall be unlawful to park any truck or any trailer which is designated by the department of public safety for a license tag in a weight category heavier than 6,000 pounds on the right-of-way of any residential street or upon residential zoned property, unless said vehicle is making a delivery to said residential property. School buses shall not fall under this section. This section shall not apply to construction vehicles, trailers, or equipment temporarily located within a construction area, provided such vehicles, trailers or equipment are used in connection with dwelling units under construction within such construction area. This section shall not apply to trucks or trailers parked at the residence of the registered driver of said truck or trailer during such time as the driver is off duty and on the premises of the residence.
(Ord. No. 08-05-36, art. 2, § 11, 5-6-2008)
Sec. 30-59. - Parking or storage of unlicensed, inoperable vehicles, trailers or equipment.
Vehicles and trailers of any kind without current license plates, or vehicles, trailers or equipment permitted to remain in an inoperable condition for more than 30 days shall not be parked or stored on orabout any property within a residential zoned district; provided, however, this section shall not apply to vehicles, trailers or equipment stored in an enclosed structure or appropriately covered and located in the rear yard area.
(Ord. No. 08-05-36, art. 2, § 12, 5-6-2008)
Sec. 30-60. - Penalties; enforcement generally.
(a)
Any person who violates this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not more than $1,000.00 or no more than 60 days in jail, or both, for each occurrence; and each occurrence shall be deemed a separate offense.
(b)
Unless otherwise specifically provided by resolution of the mayor and city council, the enforcement of this article shall be within the jurisdiction of the city's police department and any other city officer authorized by the state to make misdemeanor criminal arrests. Persons designated by the governing authority are hereby authorized to issue citations or summons or both, charging violations under this article, returnable to a court or courts having jurisdiction over state traffic offenses or other courts having jurisdiction over violations of city ordinances.
(c)
For purposes of enforcing the provisions of this article, any city court or courts having jurisdiction over state traffic offenses or other courts having jurisdiction over violations of city ordinances shall be entitled to take such action to ensure compliance, and the person convicted shall reimburse the city for any cost or expense associated with such compliance efforts, and the city shall be entitled to place a lien on the property or require a bond from the person to secure payment and reimbursement for these expenses.
(Ord. No. 08-05-36, art. 2, § 13, 5-6-2008)
Appendix A
(a)
All law enforcement personnel of the City of Chattahoochee Hill Country who are certified in the use of speed detection devices are authorized to use such devices, in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, in the following locations as approved by the Georgia Department of Transportation and the Georgia Department of Public Safety:
The locations on the list attached hereto as Exhibit "A" and incorporated by reference as if set forth here in full.
(b)
The City of Chattahoochee Hill Country may add to or amend the list of locations as outlined in section 4 from time to time pursuant to the statutes and regulations governing applications for permits to use speed-detection devices in Georgia.
(Ord. No. 08-05-36, § 4 (exh. A), 5-6-2008)
