ARTICLE IV. - ZONING DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES

Section A. - Establishment of Districts:
In order to carry out the intent and purpose of this ordinance, Chatsworth is hereby divided into the following districts:
R-A Residential Agriculture: This district encourages a compatible relationship between low density residential development and limited mixed uses in fringe areas of the city where development is generally sparse and the growth pattern is not yet well established. Historical land patterns include larger than average lots and limited livestock, along with small-scale agricultural and horticultural practices. Multiple buildings may occur per lot/parcel depending on the lot/parcel size.
R-E Residential Estate: This district encourages a low density estate environment for single family detached homes where the minimum square footage per home is larger than any other zone district in Chatsworth. Homes in this district shall maintain a roof pitch not less than four (4) feet to twelve (12) feet. Only one principal building is allowed per lot, along with customary accessory uses.
R-1 Low Density Residential: A district designed to protect single family detached dwellings, developed at a moderate density, from unrelated and incompatible uses. The lots are characterized by one principal building per lot with customary accessory uses allowed.
R-2 Medium Density Residential: A medium density zone district allowing a mix of single family detached homes, multi-family dwellings, and other related compatible uses at an approximate maximum density of six (6) dwelling units per acre. The intensity of the multi-family uses is limited to not more than four (4) dwelling units per building and the district design limits the allowed permitted uses to one principal building per lot.
R-3 High Density Residential: A high density zone district allowing typical residential dwelling types, all multi-family developments, and other uses compatible with such residential character. Multiple buildings per lot are allowed and the maximum density is twelve (12) dwelling units per acre. As such, the provision of both public water and sewer is required to serve the uses allowed in this zone district.
O-R Office Residential: A district generally characterized by low-traffic commercial uses oriented to busy streets where limited residential uses are transitioning to commercial function. A mix of residential and commercial uses is allowed but the commercial uses are generally less intensive and of smaller scale than the use found in general commercial zones. Residential conversions to commercial function are common so parking in the side yard or rear yard is desirable.
MHP Manufactured Home Park: A district designed to encourage the placement of multiple manufactured homes on a large lot. A manufactured home park, based upon allowed density, is similar to a multi-family development, thus issues related to ingress/egress, internal streets, infrastructure, waste collection, recreation, and other support facilities are a consideration, as well as the relationship with other surrounding land uses.
C-1 Neighborhood Commercial: A district catering to retail and service businesses often beneficial to the short distance needs of neighborhoods. The district can serve as a small-scale transition area between residential areas and more intense commercial areas, but the district is characterized by distinct commercial uses and does not mix residential uses, except loft-living. The district can be suitable to locations at intersections where local streets join collector streets.
C-2 General Commercial: A district offering the broadest and most intense mix of commercial uses in the community, including professional offices, retail and service businesses, institutional uses, light wholesaling, and shopping centers, all oriented to major streets. The district combines large and small tracts with multiple buildings allowed per lot to create maximum shopping and service opportunities for local residents. Cross-access easements for access between uses are desirable to improve traffic safety.
C-3 Commercial Parkway District: A district allowing a broad and intense mix of commercial uses, but excluding some institutional uses and wholesaling activities. Major streets, often collectors or arterial in nature, characterize this district and lots are conventional in design with multiple buildings allowed per lot. Cross-access easements for access between uses are desirable to improve traffic safety.
CBD Central Business District: The central business district is the traditional center for commercial retail and service uses, financial, office, government, and limited residential uses of the city. The district is characterized by shared parking and loading, and buildings typically occupy the full area of the lot, sharing common walls with adjacent buildings. The CBD is the core activity center around which the city has historically developed and remains central to the development success of the entire community and trade area as a whole.
M-1 Light Industry: This district provides a mix of commercial and light industrial uses that typically create a minimum of environmental pollution in the form of traffic, noise, odors, smoke, fumes, glare, or heat. Tract sizes can be larger than a general commercial area, helping to minimize impacts on adjacent properties. Multiple buildings are allowed per tract.
M-2 Heavy Industry: This district allows the heaviest, most intense industrial uses. Characterized by large tracts of land occupied by large buildings or multiple buildings per tract, the district is dedicated to full manufacturing, processing, assembly of raw materials, fabrication, or warehousing. Some operations occur continuously, around the clock and delivery by truck or rail may be a necessary by-product of the uses allowed in this district. Some uses in this district can be considered incompatible to residential uses, and those that emit any noise, odors, smoke, dust, fumes, or other incompatibilities shall meet general environmental requirements of the local, State, or Federal governments.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
Section B. - Zoning District Map:
The boundaries of zoning districts are shown upon the map designated as the "Zoning District Map." The Zoning District Map and all notations, references, and other information shown thereon are a part of this ordinance and have the same force and effect as if the Zoning District Map and all the notations, references, and other information shown thereon were fully set forth and described herein, which Zoning District Map is properly attested and is on file with the City Clerk of Chatsworth, Georgia.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
Section C. - District Boundaries:
The district boundaries shown on the Zoning District Map age generally intended to follow streets, alleys, or lot lines; where the districts designated on said map are bounded by such street, alley or lot line, the centerline of the street or alley or the lot line shall be the boundary of the district unless such boundary is otherwise indicated on the map. In all other cases, the district boundary line shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the Zoning District Map.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
