ARTICLE I. - SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE

Section A. - Short Title.
This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as "The Zoning Ordinance of the City of Chatsworth, Georgia."
( Ord. of 10-09 )
Section B. - Purpose and Intent.
The purpose of this Ordinance is to establish minimum standards for the use of land and improvements thereon in the incorporated area of the City of Chatsworth, Georgia. The Ordinance will serve as a tool to promote health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity or the general welfare of the present and future residents of the City of Chatsworth; to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population, to provide adequate transportation, water, sewerage, parks and open spaces and other public requirements; to protect properties against blight and depreciation; to promote desirable living conditions; to sustain the stability of neighborhoods and the value of buildings; to encourage the most appropriate use of land, buildings and other structures throughout the City; to protect and conserve irreplaceable natural resources; to secure economy in government expenditures; to minimize visual blight and enhance scenic characteristics and for other purposes, all in accordance with the adopted comprehensive plan of the City of Chatsworth, or equivalent.
Authority: The Mayor and Council of the City of Chatsworth, Georgia does hereby ordain and enact into law the following Articles, Sections and Maps of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Chatsworth in accordance with the authority contained in Article IX, Section II, Paragraph IV of the 1983 Constitution of the State of Georgia, as amended.
The requirements of these regulations are minimum permissible standards; and it is expected that developers and the Chatsworth Planning Commission will routinely strive for quality development which will exceed these minimum requirements.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
