Chapter 11 - PERSONNEL
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 11-1—11-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SOCIAL SECURITY

Sec. 11-20. - Election of coverages.
It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to extend at the earliest date possible under the agreement entered into by the state and the federal social security administration, to the employees and officials thereof, and its instrumentalities, not excluded by law or by this article, the benefits of the system of old-age and survivors insurance as authorized by the federal social security act, the state enabling act, and amendments thereto. In pursuance of such policy, and for that purpose, the city shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Ord. of 6-6-60, § 1; Ord. No. 8-1-77, § 1)
Sec. 11-21. - Execution of agreements.
The mayor, or other chief executive officer of the city, is hereby authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with employees' retirement system of the state for coverage of such employees and officials as provided in section 11-20, including firemen, that are in positions covered by a public retirement system, in the manner by such law provided.
(Ord. of 6-6-60, § 2; Ord. of 8-1-77, § 2)
Sec. 11-22. - Withholdings.
Withholdings from salaries and wages of employees and officials for the purpose provided for in section 11-20 hereof are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state agency.
(Ord. of 6-6-60, § 3; Ord. of 8-1-77, § 3)
Sec. 11-23. - Contributions.
There shall be appropriated from general funds such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations for employer's contributions, and administrative expenses, and such funds shall be paid over to the employees' retirement system of the state in accordance with regulations established by such agency.
(Ord. of 6-6-60, § 4; Ord. of 8-1-77, § 4)
Sec. 11-24. - Records and reports.
The city shall keep such records and make such reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Ord. of 6-6-60, § 5; Ord. of 8-1-77, § 5)
Sec. 11-25. - Unauthorized persons excluded.
There is hereby excluded from this article any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position, or any employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Ord. of 6-6-60, § 6; Ord. of 8-1-77, § 6)
Sec. 11-26. - Amendment to plan—Release of escrow deposits.
The mayor, or other designated official of the city, is hereby authorized and directed to execute an agreement amending the original plan and agreement with the employees' retirement system of the state, in substantially the form attached to the ordinance from which this section is derived, as Exhibit ``A,'' providing for the release of social security escrow deposits.
(Ord. of 3-2-81, § 1)
Sec. 11-27. - Same—Abiding by rules.
The city agrees to abide by the rules and regulations of the employees' retirement system of the state, hereinafter called the state agency, in regard to collections from city employees in making reports and payments to the state agency.
(Ord. of 3-2-81, § 2)
Sec. 11-28. - Same—Pledging amounts by city.
The city hereby pledges an amount which it would receive in state grant funds as security for assurance that it will make collections from its employees, submit required reports, and remit payments to the state agency as agreed to in its plan of coverage of employees for social security benefits. The city further agrees that if the amount of state grant funds which it is entitled to receive in a calendar year is less than its annual payment to the state agency, as may be determined by the state agency, then, the city shall deposit in escrow, when so notified in writing by the state agency and in accordance with its rules and regulations, an amount which, when added to the city's state great funds, would total an amount sufficient to meet its obligations of reporting and remitting collections to the state agency.
(Ord. of 3-2-81, § 3)
Secs. 11-29—11-39. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - RETIREMENT PLAN

Sec. 11-40. - Adopted by reference.
A retirement plan for the employees of the City of Chatsworth, Georgia, the joint trust agreement and the contract for the administration of said plan by the city and the Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System as provided by O.C.G.A. section 47-5-1 et seq., is adopted by reference herein as if fully set out.
(Ord. of 9-10-90(2), § 1)
