Chapter 14 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2008-O-004, §§ 1.1—9.11, adopted Nov. 4, 2008, amended ch. 14, arts. II—IV in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former ch. 14, arts. II—IV, §§ 14-26—14-64, pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 93-1, §§ 1, 3, adopted Feb. 26, 1993; Ord. No. 99-O-1, adopted Jan. 12, 1999; and Ord. No. 2001-011, §§ 1—9, adopted Aug. 14, 2001.
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; businesses, ch. 18; cable communications, ch. 22; environment, ch. 26; floods, ch. 30; solid waste, ch. 46; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 50; taxation, ch. 54; utilities, ch. 62; zoning, ch. 70.
State Law reference— Authority of city or county to provide codes, including building, housing, plumbing and electrical codes, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(12); adoption and continuation of state minimum standard codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-21; statewide application of minimum standard codes, codes requiring adoption by municipality or county, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26; providing of fire escapes by building owners, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50; access to and use of public facilities by physically handicapped persons, O.C.G.A. § 30-3-1 et seq.; authority to repair, close or demolish unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Technical building and construction codes adopted.
(a)
It is the intent of the board of commissioners to enforce the latest editions of the following State of Georgia Minimum Standard Codes, as adopted and amended by the State of Georgia from time to time. The following codes are hereby adopted for enforcement by reference as though they were copied fully herein:
(1)
International Building Code;
a.
The county further adopts Section 101 through Section 112 and Section 114 through Section 116 of Chapter 1 of such International Building Code for administration of such Code.
(2)
International Mechanical Code;
a.
The county further adopts Section 101 through Section 108 and Section 110 of Chapter 1 of such International Mechanical Code for administration of such Code.
(3)
International Fuel Gas Code;
a.
The county further adopts Section 101 through Section 108 and Section 110 of Chapter 1 of such International Fuel Gas Code for administration of such Code.
(4)
International Plumbing Code;
a.
The county further adopts Section 101 through Section 108 and Section 110 of Chapter 1 of such International Plumbing Code for administration of such Code.
(5)
National Electrical Code;
a.
The county further adopts Section 101 through Section 112 and Section 114 through Section 116 of Chapter 1 of the International Building Code for administration of the Electrical Code.
(6)
International Residential Code with Georgia Amendments;
a.
The county further adopts Section 101 through Section 111 and Section 113 through Section 114 of Chapter 1 of such International Residential Code for administration of such Code.
b.
The county further adopts Appendix S of the 2018 Georgia State Amendments to the International Residential Code for One and Two Family Dwellings.
(7)
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code;
a.
The county further adopts Section 101 through Section 107 of Chapter 1 of such International Swimming Pool and Spa Code for administration of such Code.
(8)
International Energy Conservation Code is hereby adopted as the energy code of the county.
(b)
There shall be not less than one copy of the aforementioned codes, regulations, and standards filed in the office of the director of building development services, and the codes, regulations, and standards referenced hereto are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out completely in this article.
(c)
Within such aforementioned codes when reference is made to the duties of certain officials named therein, that designated official of the county who has duties corresponding to those of the named official in such code shall be deemed to be the responsible official insofar as enforcing the provisions of such code are concerned.
(d)
Should any provision of the above adopted codes conflict with any provision of the Code of Ordinances of Cherokee County, Georgia, that provision of the Code of Ordinances of Cherokee County, Georgia shall prevail.
(e)
Any person who violates any provision of this Ordinance shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a violation of such ordinance and shall be punished in accordance with section 1-12 and as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. No. 91-19, §§ 1, 8, 10-8-91; Ord. No. 94-18, §§ 1, 2, 10-28-94; Ord. No. 95-O-17, 11-14-95; Ord. No. 2018-O-007, § 1, 8-21-18)
Sec. 14-2. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2018-O-007, § 1, adopted August 21, 2018, repealed § 14-2 in its entirety. Former § 14-2 pertained to appendices hereby repealed, and derived from Ord. No. 2004-O-003, adopted April 6, 2004.
Secs. 14-3—14-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 14-31. - Title.
The title of this article shall be the "Cherokee County Property Maintenance Ordinance".
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 1.1, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-32. - Findings and determination of necessity.
(a)
The board of commissioners finds that there are a number of residential and nonresidential properties in Cherokee County that are poorly maintained and neglected by their owners. These properties adversely affect citizens who own or occupy nearby buildings and dwellings by lowering property values and rental values.
(b)
These adverse effects also increase the incidence of vandalism and fire. The board of commissioners finds that the elimination and prevention of these conditions is necessary and is in the best interest of the county and its citizens.
(c)
Additionally, the board of commissioners finds that in Cherokee County there is the existence or occupancy of dwellings or other buildings or structures which are unfit for human habitation, or for commercial, industrial, or business occupancy or use, and are inimical to the welfare and are dangerous and injurious to the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Cherokee County. The board of commissioners finds that it is necessary and in the best interest of the county and its citizens to utilize the authority granted to the county by O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7, et seq., to repair, close or demolish unfit dwellings or structures.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 1.2, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-33. - Scope and applicability.
This article shall apply to all commercial, office, industrial, multifamily and single-family residential structures and properties, and any person owning, occupying, managing or controlling any such property in Cherokee County. This article shall constitute the minimum requirements and standards for existing structures and property, as well as any future construction.
(1)
Every property (including unimproved lots) and every building, dwelling or structure in the unincorporated area of the county, whether occupied or vacant, shall conform to the requirements of this article, regardless of when such building, dwelling or structure may have been constructed, altered or repaired. When a building, dwelling or structure is vacant, the owner, immediately upon vacating, shall ensure the interior has been cleaned of trash, rubbish and debris, secure the building, dwelling or structure in a closed and inaccessible manner until occupied, and continue maintaining the exterior of the property in compliance with this article.
(2)
The provisions of this article shall not be mandatory for existing buildings, dwellings or structures designated by the state or the county as historic buildings when such buildings, dwellings or structures are judged by the marshal to be safe and in the public interest of health, safety and welfare.
(3)
Where parking in open areas is used jointly for the benefit of two or more owners or tenants, the responsibility for maintaining these parking areas in compliance with this article shall be the joint and several responsibility of the owners and tenants.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 1.3, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-34. - Penalties.
(a)
The marshal and his/her designee is hereby authorized and directed to administer and enforce all the provisions of this article. Failure to comply with any requirement of this article shall constitute a violation subject to citation and penalty as provided herein.
(b)
Upon the first violation of any of the provisions of this article, a warning citation shall be issued by the marshal. Upon the second violation of any of the provisions of this article, a citation shall be issued and the individual shall go before the Cherokee County Magistrate Court. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the marshal may, in his discretion, issue a citation, without warning, upon a first violation of the litter control provisions of division 5 of this article. Upon conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction, the offending person will be guilty of a criminal misdemeanor and shall be subject to criminal penalties not to exceed $1,000.00. For purposes of sentencing, the first citation before the magistrate court shall be deemed the "first offense," however, consideration may be given by the court to the previous warning citation.
(c)
Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to preclude Cherokee County from pursuing any and all other remedies provided by law, including, but not limited to, pursuit of a restraining order, injunction, abatement, or other appropriate legal action, or proceeding through a court of competent jurisdiction to prevent, restrain, or abate the unlawful use or activity.
(d)
Each violation of this article shall constitute a separate offence. Additionally, each day of noncompliance with the terms of this article is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 1.4, 11-4-08; Ord. No. 2009-O-006, § IIA, 10-20-09)
Sec. 14-35. - Definitions.
Terms not defined herein shall have their meaning as defined in the Cherokee County Zoning Ordinance, the development regulations, building codes and any other applicable portion of the Cherokee County Code of Ordinances, or in the absence of such definition, words shall have their common dictionary meaning. Whenever the words "dwelling unit", "dwelling room", "property", "building", "rooming house", "rooming unit", or "story" are stated in this article, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the words "or any part thereof". The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrator means the chief marshal or designee authorized by the board of commissioners and charged with the responsibility for administering the provisions of this article. This term is also synonymous with "public officer" for purposes of this article.
Authorized litter receptacle means a litter storage and/or collection receptacle as defined or required by this article.
Building means any structure upon a property, presently or formerly used or intended to be used in whole or in part for residential uses or the purpose of commerce, trade, manufacture, business, government, worship, education, office, medical, storage or any other purpose.
Business building shall mean any structure, whether public or private, that is adapted for occupancy, for transaction of business, for rendering professional service, for amusement, for the display, sale, or storage of goods, wares, or merchandise, or for the performance of work or labor, including hotels, apartment buildings, rooming houses, office buildings, public buildings, stores, theatres, markets, restaurants, grain elevators, abattoirs, warehouses, workshops, factories, and all outhouses, sheds, barns, and other structures on property used for business purposes.
Certified mail means that class or type of mail designated by the U.S. Postal Service as "certified mail" and also includes the class or type of mail designated as "registered mail" and "registered mail, return receipt requested".
Collector car means a car or light truck more than 20 years old that is in good operating and cosmetic condition or in the process of being restored to good condition.
Commercial, industrial, or heavy vehicle or equipment means any of the following:
(1)
Any vehicle with more than two axles; or
(2)
Any vehicle exceeding a gross vehicle weight rating of 20,000 pounds; or
(3)
Any bulldozer, tractor/backhoe, or similar heavy construction equipment.
(4)
This definition shall not apply to school buses as that term is defined herein.
Compost pile means plant debris, soil and other putrescible wastes stacked so as to encourage rapid decomposition for the ultimate use as plant fertilizer.
County means Cherokee County, Georgia.
Court means a court of competent jurisdiction.
Demolish means to destroy a building and to remove all debris and waste materials from the lot on which the building stood.
Deteriorate means to decay, decompose, degenerate, disintegrate or weaken to an extent that an object's intended use is compromised.
Deterioration or deteriorated means the fact or process of decay or degeneration which has progressed to the point where it has resulted in or will soon result in making an object or mechanism unsafe, unsanitary, inoperable, unusable or unsuitable for its intended use, including, but not limited to the advanced stage of rot, rust, mold, vermin ingestion, infestation or destruction.
Drop box means a container for the disposal of litter of a capacity of at least ten cubic yards and not more than 30 cubic yards.
Dumpster means a bulk container used for the collection of garbage, refuse, trash and litter. The use of this term is generic and does not refer to a bulk container manufactured by a specific manufacturer.
Dumpster monitor means the marshal or his/her designee.
Dwelling means a building that contains one or more dwelling units, intended or designed to be used, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied for living purposes, including single-family, duplex and multifamily residential buildings, rooming and boarding houses, fraternities, sororities, dormitories, manufactured homes and industrialized home, but not including, hotels and motels.
Dwelling unit means a single unit providing complete independent living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation, designed for the exclusive use of a family maintaining a household.
Emergency means a condition which is a violation of this article and which constitutes an imminent danger calling for immediate action in order to avoid death, injury or illness to a human or the destruction or severe damaging of real or personal property.
Exterior property means open space on the property and on any adjoining property under the control of owners or operators of such property.
Extermination means the control or eradication of insects, rodents or other pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating, trapping, or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods.
Family. An individual, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption or guardianship, or a group of not more than four unrelated persons, occupying a single dwelling unit; provided however that domestic servants employed on the premises may be housed on the premises without being counted as a separate family or families. The term "family" does not include any organization or institutional group.
Garbage means any spoiled or discarded animal or vegetative material resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking or consumption of food for humans or animals, as well as other organic waste material subject to rapid decomposition, including trash to which such material has adhered.
Garbage bag means a plastic, or other similar nonporous materials, bag or sack designed specifically to contain garbage or household trash in a secure, airtight manner. Such bags shall also include suitable means of closure to ensure that the material contained therein is not exposed to the outside air.
Graffiti means images or letters scratched, scrawled, painted or marked in any manner on property, which is unsightly and unwanted by the property's owner or occupant.
Handbill means any printed or written matter any sample, device, dodger, circular, leaflet, sampler, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet, or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copy of any matter of literature, political or nonpolitical, for profit or nonprofit, for commercial or noncommercial purposes not included in the definitions of "newspaper" except the word "handbill" shall not include any notice or any document relating to legal proceedings, court proceedings, or action of any government agency including Cherokee County.
Hazardous means a condition which is a violation of this article and which the marshal has determined to be likely to result in the death, injury or illness of a human or in severe damage to real or personal property.
Hazardous refuse means materials such as poison, acids, caustics, chemicals, infected materials, offal, fecal matter and explosives.
Heavy vehicle or equipment. See "commercial, industrial or heavy vehicles or equipment", defined herein.
Household trash means every waste accumulation of paper, sweepings, dust, rags, bottles, cans, or other matter of any kind, other than garbage, which is usually attendant to housekeeping.
Industrial waste means all waste, including solids, semisolids, sludges and liquids, created by factories, processing plants or other manufacturing enterprises.
Infestation means the presence of insects, rodents, vermin or other pests within or contiguous to a structure or property.
Inoperable vehicle means any automobile, vehicle, trailer of any type, or any parts thereof, which is an inoperative or junk condition by reason of its having been wrecked, dismantled, abandoned, discarded, or which does not have a valid license plate where required and it is incapable of movement by its own power, or it remains in place for a period of more than seven days.
Inspector means any employee of Cherokee County whose responsibilities include enforcement of the provisions of this article.
Intended means: (a) the purpose, operation and/or arrangement for which something has been designed or built; or (b) the purpose, operation and/or arrangement for which something is currently safely and legally being used.
Interested parties means: (1) owner; (2) those parties having an interest in the property as revealed by a certification of title to the property conducted in accordance with the title standards of the State Bar of Georgia; (3) those parties having filed a notice in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-3-9; (4) any other party having an interest in the property whose identity and address are reasonably ascertainable from the records of the petitioner or records maintained in the county courthouse or by the clerk of the court. Interested parties shall not include the holder of the benefit or burden of an easement or right-of-way whose interest is properly recorded which interest shall remain unaffected; and (5) persons in possession of said property and premises.
Junk vehicle means any vehicle which either does not have lawfully affixed on it an unexpired license plate or tax stamp, or which vehicle is wrecked, dismantled, or partially dismantled to the extent it may not be lawfully driven on the public roads.
Junkyard includes land on which two or more junk vehicles are parked, standing or allowed to remain.
Litter means all garbage, refuse, waste materials, sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, tin cans, trash, debris, dead animals or any other discarded, used, or unconsumed substance which is not handled in accordance with the provisions of this article.
Litter receptacle means a container for the disposal of litter of not more than 60-gallon capacity; provided that garbage containers or other waste containers serving single-family or multifamily residences are not included in this definition.
Marshal means the Cherokee County Marshal or his/her designee. This term is synonymous with "administrator" and "public officer" for purposes of this article.
Medium-duty truck or equipment means a truck or trailer with a gross vehicle weight rating between 10,000 and 20,000 pounds, or equipment of the nature of a standard farm or landscaping tractor or skid steer or inloader.
Multiple dwelling means any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
Newspaper means any newspaper of general circulation, any newspaper duly entered with the U. S. Postal Service Department of the United States in accordance with federal statute or regulation, and, in addition thereto, means and includes any periodical or magazine regularly published with not less than four issues per year and sold or distributed to the public.
Nonresidential means any structure or portion of a structure occupied or intended to be occupied, in whole or in part, for a use other than a dwelling, home, residing place, living space or sleeping space for one or more human beings, either permanently or transiently.
Occupant means any person, over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking, eating or having actual possession of a dwelling unit.
Operator means any person who has charge, care or control of a dwelling, building, or structure, or part thereof, in which dwelling units are let.
Owner means any person, firm, corporation or entity who, alone or jointly or severally with others:
(1)
Has legal title to any property, dwelling, dwelling unit, building, or structure, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
(2)
Has charge, care or control of any property, dwelling, dwelling unit, building, or structure, as owner or agent of the owner, prime tenant, real estate agent, mortgagor, bank, or as executor, executrix, administrator, administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any such person thus representing the actual owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this article to the same extent as the owner.
Park means a park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center, or any other public area in Cherokee County, owned or used by Cherokee County, and devoted to active or passive recreation.
Property means any lot, unit or parcel of land inclusive of any dwelling, building, structure or improvements located thereon. This also includes vacant lots that do not have any dwelling, building, structure or improvement located thereon.
Public authority means any member of a governing authority, any housing authority officer, or any officer who is in charge of any department or branch of the government of the county or state relating to health, fire, or building regulations or to other activities concerning dwellings, buildings or structures in the county.
Public officer shall mean the officer or officers who are authorized by law to exercise the powers prescribed by this article. This term shall be synonymous with "administrator" and "marshal" for purposes of this article.
Public record shall mean deeds, mortgages and other instruments of record relating to land titles.
Rat control shall mean block sanitation, distribution of rat poison, and/or the setting of rat traps or such other methods recommended by a licensed pest control operator, as may be approved to control the rat, rodent and/or vermin population.
Rat harborage means any condition under which rats, rodents and/or vermin may find shelter or protection, and shall include any construction or condition which permits the entrances of rats into any business building.
Rat-proofing shall mean collectively a form of rat-proofing, rodent-proofing, and vermin-proofing which will prevent the ingress of rats into business buildings through the exterior walls, ground, or first floors, basements, roofs, sidewalk gratings, sidewalk openings, foundations, and other places that may be reached and entered by rats climbing, burrowing, or otherwise. The material to be used for rat-proofing shall include cement concrete, brick masonry laid in cement concrete mortar, sheet metal, 24 or 26-gauge wire cloth of not less than 19-gauge having a mesh not larger than three-eighths of an inch. All material for rat-proofing shall be of such strength and thickness as to be impervious to rat gnawing. Windows and other openings for light or ventilation that may be reached or entered by rats shall be covered with wire cloth screen incorporated in a metal frame conforming to the above gauge and dimensions. All exterior doors shall be protected against the gnawing of rats by the use of materials prescribed above. When closed, all exterior doors shall have a maximum clearance between doors, door sills and jambs of not exceeding three-eighths of an inch.
Recreational vehicle means any vehicular-type unit designed primarily as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use that either has its own motorized power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle. This shall include, but not be limited to, travel trailers, camping trailers, truck campers, and motor homes. This shall also include boats, personal watercraft, wave runners, all-terrain vehicles, trailers of any type, or school buses. Recreational vehicles are not permitted to have attachments such as stairs, steps, handrails, porches, decks and the like.
Refuse means all putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes except body wastes, including garbage, rubbish, ashes, residue from street cleaning and solid market and industrial wastes.
Regular mail means that class of mail designed by the U.S. Postal Service as "first class" mail. Regular mail shall also include post cards and postal cards.
Residential means any structure or portion of a structure occupied or intended to be occupied, in whole or in part, for a dwelling, home, residing place, living space or sleeping space for one or more human beings, either permanently or transiently.
Residential district or residential property or residential-zoned property means property approved for residential use according to the Cherokee County Zoning Ordinance, as it may be amended from time to time.
Responsible person means an owner, operator, and/or a person or persons designated in this article as being responsible for meeting the standards of this article.
Road or street shall be mutually inclusive, and shall likewise be deemed to include any alley, lane, court, and other thoroughfare, however described or designated.
Rooming house shall mean any dwelling or that part of any dwelling containing one or more rooming units in which space is let by the owner or occupant to three or more persons who are not related by genetics, adoption or marriage.
Rooming unit shall mean any room or group of rooms within a dwelling used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or eating purposes.
Rubbish means combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage, and the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, and other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches or trunks, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass, crockery and dust or other similar materials.
Safe means a condition that is not likely to do harm to humans or to real or personal property.
Sanitary means the absence of a condition that is conducive to the spreading of disease or illness, or conducive to harboring insects, rodents or other pests.
Scavenge or scavenging means any unauthorized or uncontrolled retrieval of discarded refuse materials.
School bus means any school bus owned or operated by the Cherokee County School System or other public school system, or any school bus owned or operated by any private educational facility doing business in Cherokee County.
Signature means the handwritten name of a person or a facsimile thereof.
Structure means anything constructed or placed upon a property which is supported by the ground or which is supported by any other structure, including but not limited to, garages, sheds and racks, but not including a currently operable licensed vehicle, trailer or recreational vehicle.
Structural alterations shall mean any change in the supporting members of a building such as hearings, walls, columns, beams, or gutters, except repair or replacement of supporting members.
Trash means waste materials and items which are not in good repair or are discarded and which are of little or no value, including, but not limited to, plaster, paper, wrappings, plant cuttings, household furnishings, used or salvaged building materials, packing and clothing, appliances, equipment, machinery or parts thereof, scrap metal, scrap lumber, masonry blocks, disassembled vehicle parts or dismantled portions of vehicles.
Unfit for human habitation means designation of dwellings or dwelling units as so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, or vermin-infested that such create a serious hazard to the health or safety or which lack illumination, ventilation, or sanitation facilities adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or the public. This term shall specifically include, but not be limited to, dwellings or dwelling units that lack basic sanitation such as connection to public water and sewer or septic necessary for supply of potable water.
Unsafe means a condition that is reasonably likely to do harm to humans or property if not corrected or stopped.
Vehicle means any means of conveyance, whether self-propelled or not, that is designed to travel on the ground or on water or in the air, including, but not limited to, automobiles, buses, motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf carts, campers, recreational vehicles, boats, airplanes, train cars, and any means of conveyance which are designed to be pulled by motorized vehicles upon the roadway such as boat trailers, wagons, balers, motorcycle trailers, auto transport trailers, and any other trailer designed to haul specific items attached to vehicles on the roadway.
Vermin means rodents, birds and insects that are destructive of real or personal property or injurious to health.
Weeds means vegetative growth including, but not limited to, kudzu, poison ivy, jimsonweed, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, dandelion, plants of obnoxious odors, or other similar unsightly vegetative growths. This term shall not include cultivated flowers, fruits and vegetables and gardens.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass, clippings, shrubs, and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance other than mining, agricultural and silvicultural operations.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 2.1, 11-4-08; Ord. No. 2009-O-006, § IIA, 10-20-09)
Secs. 14-36—14-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS

Sec. 14-61. - Property maintenance required.
All property regulated by this division, whether occupied or unoccupied, shall meet or exceed the standards of this division. All property shall be maintained in a manner so as to ensure that the property is not unsafe, uninhabitable, or a nuisance.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 3.1, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-62. - Unoccupied structure security.
A dwelling, building or structure that is not physically occupied by a person, or any such part thereof, shall be kept secured by the owner against unauthorized entry and water damage.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 3.2, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-63. - Swimming pools.
Stagnant water in swimming pools conducive to the breeding or harboring of mosquitoes or other insects shall not be permitted or maintained on any property. All swimming pools shall have a five-foot continuous barrier around the pool in accordance with the requirements of Appendix G of the International Residential Code as adopted by Cherokee County Resolution 2005-R-069, July 5, 2005, for single-family residential pools and the Cherokee County Board of Health Swimming Pool Regulations for Community and Commercial Pools, all as such may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 3.3, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-64. - Outdoor storage.
There shall not be maintained on a property for more than 15 calendar days any used or damaged lumber, junk, trash, garbage, debris, scrap metal, concrete, sand, asphalt, cans, bottles, tires, salvage materials, boxes, containers, bins, and abandoned, discarded, inoperative or unusable furniture, stove, refrigerator, freezer, sink, toilet, cabinet or other household fixtures, yard waste or equipment stored so as to be visible from any public road or from an adjoining property, unless appropriate permits have been obtained from the county. Nothing herein shall preclude the storage of stacked firewood for use on the property. This section shall not apply to construction sites for which all applicable permits have been issued by the county and such storage is compliant with all other applicable rules and regulations.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 3.4, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-65. - Trees and shrubs.
No tree, shrub or other vegetation shall block safe vision on a sidewalk, drive or road. No dead tree, dead parts thereof, fallen trees, or fallen parts thereof that threaten adjacent structures, people, property, or public roads shall be permitted on any property regulated by this division.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 3.5, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-66. - Grass, underbrush or weeds.
No grass, underbrush or weeds shall be permitted or allowed to grow to a height greater than 12 inches above ground level; however, this does not apply to agriculturally zoned property, property used for agricultural purposes, county-designated green space of residentially zoned property, or areas of residentially zoned property existing in their natural, undisturbed state.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 3.6, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-67. - Health and sanitation.
All exterior property shall be sanitary and free of trash and garbage. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the composting of vegetative materials is allowed provided that it does not create odors, health hazards or nuisances.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 3.7, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-68. - Graffiti.
Any person who causes graffiti to appear on property shall be subject to penalty under this article, as well as all other applicable criminal laws. The owner of the property on which the graffiti appears shall be responsible for removal of the graffiti, whether by cleaning the graffiti off, painting over the graffiti, or otherwise. Failure by the property owner to remove the graffiti within 30 days of written notice to do so by the marshal shall constitute a violation of this article by the property owner.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 3.8, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-69. - Tenant responsibility for maintenance.
A tenant, in addition to the owner, shall be responsible for complying with the standards of this division on that portion of the property controlled exclusively by the tenant.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 3.9, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-70. - Owner responsibility for maintenance.
The owner of a property shall be responsible for complying with the standards set forth in this division, except as otherwise stated in this article.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 3.10, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-71. - Maintenance of real property after casualty damage.
All buildings or structures not being presently and physically occupied, which have been rendered hazardous by fire or other acts of nature, shall immediately be made secure by the owner and/or operator to prevent unauthorized access to the hazardous property. If the property remains physically unoccupied and hazardous to public health and safety 90 days after the casualty damage occurred, the owner and/or operator shall be subject to the enforcement provisions of this article, including, division 7 of this article for abatement of a nuisance.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, art. 4, 11-4-08)
Secs. 14-72—14-95. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - RAT INFESTATION CONTROL

Sec. 14-96. - Business buildings.
(a)
The owners of all business buildings shall have such buildings rat-proofed, and kept rat-proofed in accordance with this division.
(b)
Whenever conditions inside or under any such business buildings or on any property on which a business building is located provide harborage for rats such that the marshal deems it necessary that such harborage be eliminated, the marshal shall order the owner to take such steps toward the elimination of the harborage as the marshal, in his/her discretion, deems essential. Failure to obey an order of the marshal after a given date for compliance shall constitute a violation of the division.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 5.1, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-97. - Duties of occupants of business buildings.
The occupants in charge of any business buildings or property on which a business building is located in Cherokee County shall at all times comply with the following regulations:
(1)
Store all garbage in a rat-proof metal container or other type approved by the marshal, pending removal of such garbage;
(2)
Keep business buildings and property on which a business building is located free of trash, debris, rubbish, salvage or similar materials which provide nesting places and harborage for rats; and
(3)
Maintain such buildings and/or property on which a business building is located in a rat-free condition by pursuing a program of rat.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 5.2, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-98. - Duties of owners and occupants of dwellings.
Owners and occupants of dwellings in Cherokee County shall at all times comply with the following regulations:
(1)
Every owner of a dwelling containing two dwelling units shall maintain in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or public area of the dwelling and the property on which the dwelling is located.
(2)
Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall maintain in a condition not conducive to rat infestation those parts of the dwelling, dwelling unit, and property thereof that he occupies and controls.
(3)
Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall store and dispose of all his/her rubbish in a clean, sanitary and safe manner.
(4)
Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall store and dispose of all his/her garbage, refuse, and any other organic waste which might provide food for insects and/or rodents in a clean, sanitary and safe manner. All garbage cans and refuse containers shall be rat-proofed, insect-proofed, watertight, structurally strong to withstand handling stress, easily filled, emptied and cleaned; shall be provided with tight-fitting covers or similar closures; and shall be maintained at all times in a clean sanitary condition. Plastic bags may be used as garbage and refuse container liners, but shall not be used without the container for on-site storage of garbage or refuse. Other types of containers meeting the requirements of this article may be specifically approved by the marshal.
(5)
Bulk storage containers which are used for the storage of garbage, refuse, and/or other putrescible waste shall be placed on concrete platforms which are constructed to minimize spillage onto the adjacent areas.
(6)
The total capacity of all provided garbage and/or refuse cans and bulk storage containers shall be sufficient to meet the needs of the occupants of the dwelling.
(7)
Every owner of a dwelling containing three or more dwelling units shall supply facilities or refuse containers for the sanitary and safe storage and/or disposal of rubbish and garbage. In the case of single- or two-family dwellings, it shall be the responsibility of each occupant to furnish such facilities or refuse containers.
(8)
Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall be responsible for the extermination of rats on the property, and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such extermination whenever his dwelling unit is the only one infested. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subsection, whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a rat-proof condition, extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units in any dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of the owner.
(9)
No occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall accumulate rubbish, boxes, lumber, scrap metal, or any other materials in such a manner that may provide a rat harborage in or about any dwelling or dwelling unit. Stored materials, if any, must be stacked neatly at least 18 inches above the ground.
(10)
No owner of a dwelling containing three or more dwelling units shall accumulate or permit the accumulation of rubbish, boxes, lumber, scrap metal, or any other materials in such a manner that may provide a rat harborage in or about the shared or public areas of a dwelling or its property. Materials stored by the owner shall be stacked neatly at least 18 inches above the ground.
(11)
No owner or occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall store, place, or allow to accumulate any materials which may serve as food for rats in a site accessible to rats.
(12)
Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all supplied fixtures and facilities therein in a clean, sanitary, and operable condition and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 5.3, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-99. - Maintenance of rat-proofing.
(a)
The occupants of all rat-proofed buildings are required to maintain the property in a rat-proofed condition and to repair all breaks that may occur in the rat-proofing, unless such breaks develop as the result of natural deterioration of the building.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for the occupant, owner, contractor, public utility company, plumber, or other person to remove the rat-proofing from any building for any purpose and fail to restore same in satisfactory condition or to make any new openings that are not closed or sealed against the entrance of rats.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 5.4, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-100. - Performance of rat-proofing.
The owner of any business building in complying with the provisions hereof relative to rat-proofing, and the occupant of any business building in pursuing a program of rat control may do the work himself; or may engage a contractor to do the work, or may have the work performed by the employment of such labor and the purchase of material as may be necessary.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 5.5, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-101. - Inspections.
The marshal is hereby authorized to make inspection of all buildings and property in Cherokee County for the purpose of determining the conditions as to rat-proofing and rat infestation where there is reasonable cause for the marshal to believe that rat, rodent, or vermin infestation or harborage exists. All owners and occupants of buildings and property shall permit such inspection when requested by the marshal.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 5.6, 11-4-08)
Secs. 14-102—14-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - UNFIT DWELLINGS OR BUILDINGS

Sec. 14-121. - Unfit dwellings and buildings defined.
Any dwelling or building which has any or all of the following defects shall be deemed unfit for human habitation:
(1)
Any dwelling or building whose walls or vertical members list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line suspended from the top edge of such member shall fall outside of a distance from the edge equal to one-third of the thickness of such members.
(2)
Any dwelling or building which has support member or members which have deteriorated to such an extent as to be unable to safely support the applied loads or which have 40 percent damage or deterioration of the nonsupporting, enclosed, or outside walls or covering.
(3)
Any dwelling or building which has improperly distributed loads upon the floors or roofs or in which the same are overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
(4)
Any dwelling or building which has been damaged by fire, wind, or other causes so as to have become dangerous to life, safety, morals, or the general health and welfare of the occupants.
(5)
Any dwelling or building which has parts thereof which are so attached that they may fall and injure persons or property.
(6)
Any dwelling or building which does not have an unobstructed means of egress leading to an open space at ground level, whether such unobstructed egress is at ground level or via steps to ground level.
(7)
Any dwelling or building which has wiring that is dangerous due to lack of insulation, improper fuses, inadequate grounding, lack of capacity of wires or other dangerous condition.
(8)
Any dwelling or building which does not have an installed kitchen sink in each dwelling unit properly connected to the hot and cold water supply pipes and the sewer system, and which connection is actively providing a potable water supply.
(9)
Any dwelling or building which does not have an installed tub or shower and lavatory properly connected to hot and cold water supply pipes and sewer system, and which connection is actively providing a potable water supply.
(10)
Any dwelling or building which does not have a flush-type water closet located in a room affording privacy and properly connected to the water supply pipes and sewer system, and which connection is actively receiving a water supply so as to allow a toilet to be flushed.
(11)
Any dwelling or building which does not have installed and operational (i.e., electricity running through the lines) electric lighting facilities installed and functioning in accordance with the minimum requirements of the National Electric Code.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 6.1, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-122. - Renting an unfit dwelling or building.
It shall be unlawful for any owner or any party in interest of a dwelling or of a building to rent or offer for rent any dwelling or building or rooming unit which is unfit for human habitation for any reason set out in this article, due to the dilapidation, leaking water lines, leaking gas lines, electrical defects increasing hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities, lack of ventilation, light or sanitary facilities, or due to other conditions rendering such dwelling or building or rooming unit unsafe or unsanitary or dangerous. Any person shall have 72 hours or three business days (in the case of office closure) after execution of said lease to rescind it by providing said notice in writing to the landlord that the dwelling or building has been discovered to be unfit as described in this division.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 6.2, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-123. - Persons occupying dwellings or buildings.
The number of persons occupying any dwelling unit, notwithstanding the definition of "dwelling unit" set forth in this article, shall be limited by the following additional requirements: The total of all habitable rooms in a dwelling or building shall be such as to provide at least 390 square feet of total building square footage (as determined and maintained in the records of the Cherokee County Tax Assessor) per each adult occupant thereof. Any floor space under a ceiling less than five feet high shall not be counted.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 6.3, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-124. - Rooming houses.
No person shall operate a rooming house or shall let to another for occupancy any room, unless such rooming house or room complies with the following requirements:
(1)
Each rooming house and room shall be in compliance with the minimum standards set forth in section 14-121, subsections (1) through (7), and (11), and section 14-123 of this article.
(2)
Each rooming house shall be equipped with at least one flush water closet, one lavatory, an installed tub or shower for each five persons or fraction thereof within the rooming house, including members of the family, if they are to share the use of the facilities. All such facilities shall be properly connected to the water supply and sewer system as required by section 14-121.
(3)
Each flush water closet, lavatory, tub, or shower required above, shall be located within the rooming house, in a room, or rooms, which:
a.
Affords privacy.
b.
Is accessible by a common hall without going outside the rooming house.
c.
Is accessible by a common hall without going through sleeping quarters of others.
d.
Is not more than one story removed from the room of an occupant intended to share the facilities.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 6.4, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-125. - Residency in a recreational vehicle.
(a)
No recreational vehicle shall be permanently occupied. For the purposes of this section, any recreational vehicle shall be deemed permanently occupied if:
(1)
The recreational vehicle is occupied for 30 or more consecutive days;
(2)
The recreational vehicle is occupied for 30 or more non-consecutive days during a 90 day period; or
(3)
The recreational vehicle is connected to metered water or electrical power at a unique mailing address.
( Ord. No. 2022-O-002 , § 1, 2-1-22)
Secs. 14-126—14-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - LITTER CONTROL

Sec. 14-141. - Prohibited conduct.
(a)
Deposit in public places. No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any road, sidewalk, or other public place within Cherokee County, except in litter receptacles or in official county transfer stations.
(b)
Deposit on private property. No person shall throw or deposit litter on any private property within Cherokee County, whether owned by such person or not, except that the owner or person in control of the private property may maintain private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be reasonably prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements onto any road, sidewalk, or other public place or onto any other private property.
(c)
Deposit in parks. No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within Cherokee County, except in litter receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be reasonably prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements onto any part of the park or onto any street or other public place.
Where litter receptacles are not provided, all such litter shall be carried away and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided in this division.
(d)
Deposit in water. No person shall throw or deposit litter in any fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay or any other body of water in a park or elsewhere within Cherokee County.
(e)
Throwing from vehicles. No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit litter upon any road, sidewalk, or other public place or upon private property within Cherokee County.
(f)
Litter from vehicle. No person shall drive or move any vehicle within the county unless such vehicles are so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, contents or litter contained therein from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or other public place. Additionally, no person shall drive or move any loaded or unloaded vehicle that is a commercial vehicle and/or vehicle for hire while picking-up, delivering, or upon leaving any solid waste disposal facility or site operated within the county unless such vehicle and the load therein is covered by canvas or other material providing complete coverage, properly secured, so as to prevent any load, contents or litter from becoming loose, detached or blown from the vehicle, or from dropping or escaping from the vehicle during the movement thereof. Thirty percent of fines collected from a violation of this subsection shall be distributed to Keep Cherokee Beautiful, Inc. for the purpose of litter control and the beautification of Cherokee County.
(g)
Litter from construction sites.
(1)
No individual or person in charge of a construction site or any other real property in Cherokee County shall cause or allow any litter from the site or other real property to be deposited by the elements or otherwise upon any adjacent public or private property. During such time as the construction site or other real property is not actually being used, all litter shall be stored or deposited in containers or receptacles in such a manner as to prevent the litter from being deposited upon adjacent property by the elements or otherwise.
(2)
No individual or person in charge of any construction site or any other real property in Cherokee County shall cause or allow any mud, dirt, sticky substance, road surfacing materials, or other litter from said construction site or other real property to be deposited by any vehicles, the wheels or tires of any vehicles, the elements, or otherwise upon any road, alley, or other public place; provided however, if a construction site or other real property and adjacent public roads and sidewalks are maintained under a cleanup program approved by the department of public works, then this subsection shall not apply.
(h)
Sweeping into gutters. No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, stormwater drain, street, or other public place within Cherokee County, an accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying any real property within the county shall keep the sidewalk in front of or adjacent to said property free of litter.
(i)
Dropping litter or handbills from aircraft. No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within Cherokee County any litter, handbill, or any other object.
(j)
Handbills; prohibited placement.
(1)
Depositing in public. No person shall throw, deposit, or post any handbill in or upon any sidewalk, road, or other public place within Cherokee County; provided, however, this section shall not prohibit the posting of commercial or noncommercial bills on posting boards designated for such purposes; and provided further, this section shall not apply to political signs or handbills as permitted.
(2)
Placing on vehicles. No person shall throw or deposit any handbill in or upon any vehicle without the permission of the owner of such vehicle; provided, however, that it is not unlawful in any public place for a person to hand out or distribute a handbill without charge to the receiver thereof.
(3)
Deposit on vacant property. No person shall throw, deposit, post, or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any private property which is temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant.
(4)
Distribution on posted property. No person shall throw, deposit, post, or distribute any handbill upon any private property if requested by the owner or person in control of such property to refrain from doing so if there is placed on the property in a conspicuous position near the entrance thereof a sign bearing the words: "No Trespassing," "No Peddlers or Agents," "No Advertisement," or any similar notice, indicating in any manner, that the occupants of the property do not desire to have any such handbills left upon such property, in case of inhabited private property; unless requested by anyone upon such property not to do so, such person may place or deposit any such handbill in or upon such inhabited private property, in such a manner as to prevent such handbill from being flown or drifted about such property or sidewalks, roads or other public places; and except that mailboxes may not be used when so prohibited by federal postal law or regulations; provided further that this article shall not be construed to permit solicitation.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 7.1, 11-4-08; Ord. No. 2019-O-002, 1-15-19; Ord. No. 2021-O-001 , § 1, 2-2-21)
Sec. 14-142. - Property owner's duty to keep property litter-free.
The owner, occupant or person in control of any private property or public place shall at all times maintain the property free of litter; provided, however, that this section shall not prohibit: the storage of litter in private litter receptacles for collection of disposal; the maintenance of compost piles contained within a physical structure; and the temporary storage of building, construction, landscaping, and similar materials, except as prohibited expressly by this division.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 7.2, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-143. - Placement in litter receptacles.
Persons placing litter in litter receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to reasonably prevent it from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any road, sidewalk or other public place or upon private property.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 7.3, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-144. - Placement in dumpsters and drop boxes; dumpster standards.
(a)
Persons placing litter in dumpsters or drop boxes shall do so in such a manner as to prevent the litter from being carried or deposited by the elements onto any road, sidewalk, or other public property or onto any other private property.
(b)
No person shall deposit litter in any dumpster or drop box designated for the sole use by a business or multifamily residence unless that person or individual is licensed to do so by that business or multifamily residence.
(c)
All dumpsters are to be equipped with a lid to secure the contents and to prevent the entrance of dogs or other animals.
(d)
Lids shall remain closed at all times, unless other means of protection are provided to prevent the contents from being scattered by animals or the elements.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 7.4, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-145. - Newspapers.
Hand-delivered newspapers shall be placed only on private property.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 7.5, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-146. - Responsibility to procure and place receptacles.
Any person owning or operating any property, on which litter receptacles are required by this article, shall procure, place and maintain such receptacles on the property at his/her/its own expense in accordance with the provisions of this division.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 7.6, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-147. - Authorized litter receptacles; minimum standards.
Litter receptacles procured and placed in public places as required by this division shall meet the following minimum standards:
(1)
General specifications.
a.
The body of each litter receptacle shall be constructed of a minimum of 24-gauge galvanized steel or other material of equivalent strength that will, with normal wear and tear, reasonably resist corrosion and acts of vandalism.
b.
All outside edges of each litter receptacle shall be rounded.
c.
Openings in covered litter receptacles shall be readily identifiable and readily accessible for the deposit of litter.
d.
Construction and general configuration of litter receptacles shall be in conformance with all pertinent laws, ordinances, resolutions, or regulations pertaining to fire, safety, public health or welfare.
(2)
Color and marking. No commercial advertisement shall be placed on any litter receptacle. However, the person owning any receptacle may place a single line on the receptacles identifying the ownership, and a single credit line designating any donor of the litter receptacle other than the owner may also be placed on the receptacle, provided that the lettering does not exceed four inches in height.
(3)
Maintenance. Compliance with the minimum standards set forth in this section shall include the proper upkeep, maintenance repair, or replacement of litter receptacles sufficient to permit such receptacles to serve the functions for which they were designed and to prevent the appearance of such receptacles from becoming unsightly.
(4)
All litter receptacles are to be braced or supported in such a manner that dogs or other animals cannot enter or tip or tilt the same or empty any of the contents thereof, and each such receptacle shall have overlapping close-fitting lids designed in such a way as to remain closed when not in actual use.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 7.7, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-148. - Receptacles; placement required.
(a)
Litter receptacles meeting the standards established by this division shall be placed in the following public and private places in the county:
(1)
Parks;
(2)
Campgrounds;
(3)
Trailer park facilities for transient habitation;
(4)
Drive-in restaurants;
(5)
Gasoline service stations;
(6)
Tavern parking lots;
(7)
Shopping centers;
(8)
Grocery store parking lots;
(9)
Marinas;
(10)
Boat launching areas;
(11)
Boat moorage and fueling stations;
(12)
Public and private piers;
(13)
Beaches and bathing areas;
(14)
Outdoor parking lots, other than those specifically designated in this section, having a capacity of more than 50 automobiles;
(15)
Fairgrounds;
(16)
School grounds;
(17)
Racetracks;
(18)
Sporting event sites;
(19)
Sites for carnivals, festivals, circuses, shows or events of any kind to which the public is invited.
(b)
Litter receptacles need only be placed in the places designated in subsection (a) of this section during times that such places are open to the public.
(c)
Placement of litter receptacles shall be in conformance with laws, ordinances, resolutions, and regulations pertaining to fire, safety, public health or welfare.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 7.8, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-149. - Receptacle; number required.
The minimum number of receptacles meeting the standards established by this division and required in public places listed are as follows:
(1)
Parks, campgrounds and trailer park facilities for transient habitation: One receptacle at each public restroom facility, and one receptacle at each established trailhead giving access by foot, motorcycle, bicycle, or similar trail for excursion or exploration out or away from the central activity area. This requirement does not apply to private walking or riding trails in a subdivision or elsewhere that are not open to the general public.
(2)
Gasoline service stations: One receptacle per gasoline pump island.
(3)
Drive-in restaurants, tavern parking lots, shopping center, grocery store parking lots and outdoor parking lots having a capacity of 25 automobiles: One receptacle for the first 25 spaces, plus one additional receptacle for each additional 100 parking spaces.
(4)
Marinas, boat launching areas, boating moorage, and fueling stations and public and private piers: One receptacle at each main pier, at each float and at each boat launching ramp.
(5)
Beaches and bathing areas: One receptacle at each public restroom facility and one receptacle at each access point officially designated as such by the county.
(6)
School grounds: One receptacle at each school ground bus loading zone.
(7)
Sporting event sites: One litter receptacle at each entrance to the sporting event. Sporting event sites with seating capacity of more than 100 spectators: One litter receptacle at each seating area, plus an additional receptacle in each seating area for each additional 500 seats.
(8)
Fairgrounds and sites for carnivals, festivals, circuses, shows,or events of any kind to which the public is invited: One receptacle at the entrance of each ride, and one receptacle at each end of walk-through exhibit buildings.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 7.9, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-150. - Litter receptacles; prohibited acts.
(a)
No person shall damage, deface, abuse or misuse any litter receptacle now owned by such person, to interfere with its proper function, or to detract from its proper appearance.
(b)
No person shall deposit leaves, clippings, pruning or gardening refuse in any litter receptacle not owned by such person.
(c)
No person shall deposit household garbage in any litter receptacle that is not owned by that person. This subsection shall not be construed to mean that wastes of food consumed on the property at any public place may not be deposited in litter receptacles on that property.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 7.10, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-151. - Presumption of responsibility.
(a)
Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane, or other conveyance in violation of this division, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of the conveyance has violated this article.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided in subsection (a), a person is presumed to be responsible for illegally depositing litter by the discovery of one or more pieces of litter within such illegally deposited litter, which are identifiable to such person by means of a name, address or other mark of identification contained on such items.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 7.11, 11-4-08)
Secs. 14-152—14-175. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - STANDARDS FOR VEHICLES

Sec. 14-176. - Unregistered and unlicensed motor vehicles.
No person shall park or permit any other person to park any motor vehicle, except a motor vehicle parked within a carport or enclosed building, on any property in a residential district, if the vehicle:
(1)
Is unregistered; or
(2)
Has expired registration; or
(3)
Does not have a lawful license plate or lawful temporary tag, which plate or tag is currently registered to that vehicle displayed thereon.
(4)
Notwithstanding the above, up to three collector cars may be stored outside if under fitted car covers of neutral color and in good condition, with no rips or holes. Such collector cars must not be parked within 20 feet of the front or rear property line or within ten feet of the side property lines.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 8.1, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-177. - Inoperable vehicles.
(a)
No owner or occupant of any property shall park any inoperable vehicle or permit any other person to park any inoperable vehicle on the owner's or occupant's property for more than 14 days, unless the inoperable vehicle is parked within a carport or enclosed structure. This section does not apply to property for which the zoning code permits the storage of junk vehicles outside an enclosed building in connection with some commercial enterprise.
(b)
No person shall park any inoperable vehicle upon any public or private road or other public property.
(c)
Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, up to three collector cars may be stored outside on the owner's or occupant's property, if concealed under fitted car covers of neutral color and in good condition, with no rips or holes. Such collector cars must not be parked within 20 feet of the front or rear property line or within ten feet of the side property lines.
(d)
This section shall not apply to an inoperable vehicle that is used for instruction at an educational institution licensed under state school laws.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 8.2, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-178. - Abandonment prohibited.
It shall be unlawful to abandon any motor vehicle as provided in O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1 et seq. Any motor vehicle abandoned within the county shall be disposed of by the proper authorities as provided in O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1 et seq.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 8.3, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-179. - Junk vehicles prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain and/or keep any junk vehicle on any property adjoining or abutting any public or private road, street or other public or private property within the unincorporated portions of the county, and visible from such public or private road, street, way, or other public or private property, unless the junk vehicle is parked within a carport or enclosed structure. This section does not apply to property for which the zoning code permits the storage of junk vehicles outside an enclosed building in connection with some commercial enterprise.
(b)
No person shall park a junk vehicle upon any private or public road or other public property.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 8.4, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-180. - Major overhaul.
(a)
No person shall perform a major overhaul of any vehicle or permit any other person to perform a major overhaul of any vehicle on property in a residential zone, unless:
(1)
The person performing the overhaul is the occupant of the property;
(2)
The person performing the overhaul is the owner of the vehicle; and
(3)
The work is done inside a garage or enclosed structure, or if the major overhaul of such a vehicle on property in a residential zone must be completed outside of a garage or enclosed structure, it must be completed within 30 days.
(b)
No person shall perform a major overhaul of any vehicle or permit any other person to perform a major overhaul of any vehicle on any property in a business, commercial or industrial district, unless the overhaul is performed at an approved licensed and properly zoned establishment.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 8.5, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-181. - Recreational vehicles and school buses.
(a)
In residential districts, recreational vehicles and school buses may be parked or stored in an enclosed garage or carport. It shall be unlawful to park recreational vehicles and school buses in the front yard of any residential district, unless such recreational vehicle and/or school bus is parked more than 20 feet from the road right-of-way, and provided that no more than a total of two recreational vehicles or two school buses, or a combination of one recreational vehicle and one school bus may be parked in the front yard.
(b)
Additionally, in residential districts, recreational vehicles and school buses may be parked to the rear and sides of a dwelling.
(c)
No such permitted recreational vehicle shall have attachments such as stairs, steps, handrails, porches, decks and the like.
(d)
In residential districts, no more than a total of two recreational vehicles or two school buses, or a combination of one recreational vehicle and one school bus may be parked on a vacant and/or unimproved lot, and in such case, any such permitted vehicle may only be parked if a minimum of 20 feet from the road right-of-way.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 8.6, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-182. - Storage of medium-duty trucks and equipment.
(a)
On any residentially zoned property, no more than one each of the following may be stored other than in an approved enclosed garage or carport: (1) a medium-duty truck; (2) a medium-duty trailer; and/or (3) a medium-duty piece of equipment.
(b)
Such medium-duty items must remain more than 20 feet from the public road right-of-way.
(c)
This section shall not apply to farm equipment reasonably needed and exclusively used for agricultural operations on the property on which it is stored.
(d)
This section shall not apply to such medium-duty trucks and equipment that are being used in construction of structures or dwellings so long as such medium-duty trucks and equipment are not stored on the property for more than 15 days.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 8.7, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-183. - Commercial, industrial or heavy vehicles and equipment.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to park or, caused to be parked, any commercial, industrial, or heavy vehicles or equipment on residentially zoned property. On agricultural-zoned property, storage of such commercial, industrial, or heavy vehicles or equipment is limited to one each of the following: (1) truck; (2) trailer; and (3) piece of equipment.
(b)
Subsection (a) shall not apply to any vehicle that is temporarily parked or left standing clearly for the purpose of loading or unloading, provided that the vision of traffic is not obstructed.
For the purposes of this subsection, a reasonable amount of time shall be allowed for loading and unloading, the amount of which is to be determined according to the nature and extent of the loading and unloading operation.
(c)
Subsection (a) shall not apply to any vehicle or equipment that is reasonably needed and exclusively used for an approved agricultural purpose on the agricultural-zoned parcel on which it is stored, provided that such vehicles and equipment are not within 20 feet of a public road right-of-way.
(d)
Subsection (a) shall not apply to a single roll-off bin or a single dumpster when used in conjunction with the construction, remodeling or demolition of a structure. Such use, however, must be temporary and closely correspond to the construction, remodeling or demolition schedule. Such use shall be expressly for the collection of construction debris, and at no time shall sanitary waste be dumped into said container.
(e)
Subsection (a) does not apply to school buses, provided that the parking of school buses is done in accordance with section 14-181 of this division.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 8.8, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-184. - Mobile and manufactured houses.
Mobile homes, manufactured homes, rail cars, tractor trailers, and the like shall not be utilized as an accessory storage structure, regardless of the zoning district on which it is located.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 8.9, 11-4-08)
Secs. 14-185—14-210. - Reserved.
DIVISION 7. - ABATEMENT OF A NUISANCE PROPERTY

Sec. 14-211. - Application and interest.
This division is intended to provide additional enforcement authority to the county in accordance with the abatement of nuisance provisions set forth in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-1, et seq. The remedies provided in division 7 are in addition to those remedies available to the county for violations of the article under section 14-34. It is intended that violations of this division shall be addressed according to section 14-34 as a general matter, and that only those properties that fail to come into compliance and which constitute a nuisance as such is defined by state law and under the terms of this division will require resort to the enforcement remedies provided in division 7.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 9.1, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-212. - Purpose and authority.
(a)
The county intends that this division shall comport with, and be susceptible to enforcement under, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7, et seq. Pursuant thereto, it is found and declared that there is the existence or occupancy of dwellings or other buildings or structures which are unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business occupancy or use and are inimical to the welfare and are dangerous and injurious to the health, safety, and welfare of the people of this county; and that a public necessity exists for the repair, closing, or demolition of such dwellings, buildings or structures. It is further found and declared that where there is in existence a condition or use of property which renders adjacent property unsafe or inimical to safe human habitation, such use is dangerous and injurious to the health, safety, and welfare of the people of this county and a public necessity exists for the repair of such condition or the cessation of such use which renders the adjacent property unsafe or inimical to safe human habitation.
(b)
Such dwellings, buildings, and property may be deemed unfit due to the following reasons; dilapidation and not in compliance with applicable codes; defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, or other calamities; lack of adequate ventilation, light or sanitary facilities; properties that have an accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth, and/or other unsanitary or unsafe conditions which create a public health hazard or a general nuisance to those persons residing in the vicinity; other conditions resulting in a violation of this article which renders such dwellings, buildings, or property unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous or detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare, or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the county; or vacant, dilapidated dwellings or buildings in which drug crimes are being committed.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 9.2, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-213. - Complaint relating to unfit dwellings or structures.
(a)
Whenever a request is filed with the marshal by a public authority or by at least five residents of the county charging that any dwelling or building is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; or is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the marshal shall make an investigation or inspection of the specific dwelling, building, structure, or property.
(b)
If the marshal's investigation or inspection identifies that any dwelling, building, structure, or property is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as the result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the marshal may issue a complaint in rem against the lot, tract, or parcel of real property on which such dwelling, building, or structure is situated or where such public health hazard or general nuisance exists and shall cause summons and a copy of the complaint to be served on the interested parties for such dwelling, building or structure.
(c)
The complaint shall identify the subject real property by appropriate street address and official tax map reference; identify the interested parties; state with particularity the factual basis for the action; and contain a statement of the actions sought by the marshal to abate the nuisance. The summons shall notify the interested parties that a hearing will be held before the magistrate court at a date and time certain and at a place within the county where the property is located. Such hearing shall be held not less than 15 days, nor more than 45 days after the filing of said complaint in the magistrate court. The interested parties shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person or by attorney and offer testimony at the time and place fixed for the hearing.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 9.3, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-214. - Service of complaints.
(a)
Complaints issued by the marshal pursuant to this division shall be served in the following manner. At least 14 days prior to the date of the hearing, the marshal shall mail copies of the complaint by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, to all interested parties whose identities and addresses are reasonably ascertainable.
Copies of the complaint shall also be mailed by First Class Mail to the property address to the attention of the occupants of the property, if any, and shall be posted on the property within three business days of filing the complaint and at least 14 days prior to the date of the hearing.
(b)
For interested parties whose mailing address is unknown, a notice stating the date, time and place of the hearing shall be published in a newspaper in which the sheriff's advertisements appear in Cherokee County once a week for two consecutive weeks prior to the hearing.
(c)
A notice of lis pendens shall be filed in the Office of the Clerk of Superior Court in Cherokee County at the time of filing the complaint in the magistrate court. Such notice shall have the same force and effect as other lis pendens notices provided by law.
(d)
Orders and other filings made subsequent to service of the initial complaint shall be served in the manner provided in this section on any interested party who answers the complaint or appears at the hearing. Any interested party who fails to answer or appear at the hearing shall be deemed to have waived all further notice in the proceedings.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 9.4, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-215. - Order of the court.
If, after notice and hearing as provided above, the magistrate court determines that the dwelling or building under consideration is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use; or is vacant, and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the court shall issue an order that states in writing its findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the interested parties that have answered the complaint or appeared at the hearing, an order as follows:
(1)
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the said dwelling, building, or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter or improve such dwelling, building, or structure so as to bring it into full compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violation, and, if applicable, to secure the structure so that it cannot be used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or
(2)
If the repair, alteration or improvement of the said dwelling, building or structure cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to demolish and remove such dwelling, building or structure and all debris from the property.
(3)
For purposes of this section, the court shall make its determination of "reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building or structure" without consideration of the value of the land on which the structure is situated; provided, however, that costs of the preparation necessary to repair, alter, or improve a structure may be considered. Income and financial status of the owner shall not be a factor in the court's determination.
The present value of the structure and the costs of repair, alteration, or improvement may be established by affidavits of real estate appraisers with a Georgia Appraiser classification as provided in O.C.G.A. tit. 43, ch. 39A, qualified building contractors, or qualified building inspectors without actual testimony presented. Costs of repair, alternation, or improvement of the structure shall be the costs necessary to bring the structure into compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violations enforced in the jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 9.5, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-216. - Failure to comply with order of the court.
If the owner fails to comply with an order of the court to repair, alter, improve, remove, close, or demolish the dwelling, building or structure, the marshal may cause such dwelling, building or structure to be repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed or demolished. Such abatement action shall commence within 270 days after the expiration of time specified in the order for abatement by the owner. Any time during which such action is prohibited by a court order issued pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 41-2-13 or any other equitable relief granted by a court of competent jurisdiction shall not be counted toward the 270 days in which such abatement action must commence. The marshal shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the dwelling, building or structure a placard with the following words: "This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business use and does not comply with the applicable codes or has been ordered secured to prevent its use in connection with drug crimes or constitutes an endangerment to public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions. The use or occupation of this dwelling, building or structure is prohibited and unlawful".
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 9.6, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-217. - Salvage of reusable materials.
If the marshal has the structure demolished, reasonable effort shall be made to salvage reusable materials for credit against the cost of demolition. The proceeds of any money shall be used or applied against the cost of the demolition and removal of the structure, and proper records shall be kept showing application of sales proceeds. Any such sale of salvaged materials may be made without the necessity of public advertisement and bid, according to O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9(a)(6). The marshal and board of commissioners are relieved of any and all liability resulting from, or occasioned by, the sale of any such salvaged materials, including, without limitation, defects in such salvaged materials consistent with O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9(a)(6).
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 9.7, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-218. - Lien on property.
(a)
The cost of repairing, altering, improving, removing, closing or demolishing the dwelling, building or structure incurred by the marshal in accordance with exercising his/her authority as described in this division 7, including all court costs, appraisal fees, administrative costs incurred by the county tax commissioner, and all other costs necessarily associated with the abatement action, including restoration to grade of the real property after demolition, shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred. Said lien shall attach to the real property upon the filing of a certified copy of the order requiring repair, closure or demolition in the Office of the Clerk of Superior Court of Cherokee County and shall relate back to the date of the filing of the list pendens notice required in this article. The clerk of superior court shall record and index such certified copy of the order in the deed records of the county and enter the lien on the general execution docket. The lien shall be superior to all other liens on the property, except liens for taxes to which the lien shall be inferior, and shall continue in force until paid.
(b)
Upon final determination of costs, fees and expenses incurred in accordance with this section, the marshal shall transmit to the county tax commissioner a statement of the total amount due and secured by said lien, together with copies of all notices provided to interested parties. The statement of the marshal shall be transmitted within 90 days of completion of the repairs, demolition or closure. It shall be the duty of the county tax commissioner to collect the amount of the lien using all methods available for collecting real property ad valorem taxes, including, specifically, O.C.G.A. tit. 48, ch. 4; provided, however, that the limitation of O.C.G.A. § 48-4-78 which requires 12 months of delinquency before commencing a tax foreclosure, shall not apply. The county tax commissioner shall remit the amount collected to the board of commissioners.
(c)
Enforcement of liens pursuant to this section may be initiated at any time following receipt by the county tax commissioner of the final determination of costs. The unpaid lien amount shall bear interest and penalties from and after the date of final determination of costs in the same amount as applicable to interest and penalties on unpaid real property ad valorem taxes. An enforcement proceeding pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-4-78 for delinquent ad valorem taxes may include all amounts due under this section.
(d)
The redemption amount in any enforcement proceeding pursuant to this article shall be the full amount of the costs as finally determined in accordance with this section, together with interest, penalties, and costs incurred by the county and the county tax commissioner in the enforcement of such lien. Redemption of property from the lien may be in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-4-80 and § 48-4-81.
(e)
This section is intended to adopt and be consistent with O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9(b).
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 9.8, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-219. - Waiver of lien.
The county may waive and release any lien imposed on property if the owner of such property enters into a contract with the county agreeing to a timetable for rehabilitation of the real property or the dwelling, building or structure on the property and demonstrating the financial means to accomplish such rehabilitation.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 9.9, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-220. - Appellate review.
Review of the magistrate court's order requiring the repair, alteration, improvement, or demolition of a dwelling, building or structure shall be by direct appeal to the Cherokee County Superior Court according to O.C.G.A. § 5-3-29.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 9.10, 11-4-08)
Sec. 14-221. - Summary proceedings.
Nothing in this division 7 shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the county to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise when, upon a majority vote of the board of commissioners, the county determines that a nuisance exists and the repair, alteration, improvement, removal, closing or demolition will not exceed $1,000.00.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-004, § 9.11, 11-4-08)
