DIVISION 9. - AMBULANCE FRANCHISES

Sec. 18-361. - Definitions.
As used in this division the following words and phrases will have the following meaning unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Ambulance means a vehicle which travels on the ground and is equipped with facilities intended for the transportation of ill or injured persons.
County means the Board of Commissioners of Cherokee County or their designee.
Emergency medical technician (EMT) must be certified by the State of Georgia and the Department of Human Resources.
Paramedic means any person certified by the state and the department of human resources to perform emergency medical service in accordance with state law and in accordance with regulations of the state board of health. A paramedic includes persons assigned to work in an ambulance and persons assigned to work with mobile equipment that is not contained in an ambulance.
(Ord. No. 95-O-6, § 1, 4-28-95)
Sec. 18-362. - Franchise required.
No person, firm or corporation shall operate any ambulance service, or any paramedic service on the streets of the county without first obtaining a franchise for such service. This section shall not prevent ambulance service located outside of the county from picking up a patient outside of the county and bringing the patient into the county. This division will not prevent any ambulance service located outside the county from occasionally responding to an emergency call in the county if no ambulance service franchised by the county is able to make a prompt response to the emergency call. This division will not prevent any ambulance service located outside the county from picking up a patient in the county for transfer to a location outside the county either as an emergency or as a nonemergency transfer. The franchise shall be for not more than three years.
(Ord. No. 95-O-6, § 2, 4-28-95)
Sec. 18-363. - Penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this division shall be fined not less than $25.00 nor more than $500.00 dollars for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. No. 95-O-6, § 3, 4-28-95)
Sec. 18-364. - Nonexclusive franchise.
Each franchise granted under this division will be a nonexclusive franchise. The county does not agree to restrict the number of franchises in all or any part of the county for any person, firm or corporation in the same business, a competing business or any related business.
(Ord. No. 95-O-6, § 4, 4-28-95)
Sec. 18-365. - Quality of service required.
All of the service to be provided by the company will be provided in a careful and prudent manner so as to avoid any injury or damage to any person and so as to minimize the possibility of any property damage. The company will be responsible for the acts of all its officers and employees. If the company prevents or permits repeated violations of this section, the county will cancel the franchise in accordance with the provisions of the section entitled "inspections" of this division.
(Ord. No. 95-O-6, § 5, 4-28-95)
Sec. 18-366. - Promptness of response.
In determining priorities for response for calls, the company will divide all calls into three categories: life-threatening emergencies, nonlife-threatening emergencies, and nonemergency transfers. In making a decision as to which category applies to a call, the company will consider information available to the company at the time and the company is not required to obtain any professional advice. Emergencies will include all injuries and all serious illnesses when the patient is not in a location where adequate treatment may be obtained, unless the attending physician orally states that the situation is not an emergency. All other patient transfers such as transfer of a patient from one institution to another for tests or treatment will be considered nonemergency transportation. In responding to calls, the company will respond promptly to each call, provided that enough vehicles will be kept available and in reserve to respond to anticipated emergency and life-threatening calls. The company will respond to life-threatening calls first, then to other emergencies and last to nonemergency transportation. The company will provide a report once a month to the county indicating average times and the maximum times of response during the past month for life-threatening emergencies, other emergencies and nonemergency calls.
(Ord. No. 95-O-6, § 6, 4-28-95)
Sec. 18-367. - Termination or suspension of franchise.
The franchise granted by this division may be suspended temporarily for a period not to exceed 30 days at a time, if the company fails to comply with the terms of this division and if the failure to comply results in dangers to patients due to inadequate response to calls, due to inadequate equipment and care, or due to any other cause. This franchise may be terminated 30 days after notice to the company for repeated violations by the company of provisions of this franchise. A notice of termination will not automatically result in a suspension but the county may suspend a company's rights under this franchise while a termination is pending, if under the provisions of this section the suspension is justified or required. The company may request a hearing under the provisions of the section dealing with "hearings" of this division on any suspension or termination. The hearing or request for a hearing will not render any suspension ineffective. If the company files a written request for a hearing on a termination with the county manager at least 15 days before the effective date of termination, the termination will not go into effect until after a hearing is held on the question of termination.
(Ord. No. 95-O-6, § 7, 4-28-95)
Sec. 18-368. - Inspection.
The county may at any time during reasonable business hours inspect the financial records of the company and inspect the time records of the company to determine whether the company is complying with the terms of this division. The company may keep records using account numbers or patient numbers rather than names and addresses. At the request in writing of any patient who has ridden in an ambulance, the company will provide the account number or patient number applying to that patient and the company will compile or furnish to the county all of its records relating to that patient. The county may copy at the county's expense, any company records that the county has a right to inspect. The county will not remove any records from the company's office without the consent of the company.
(Ord. No. 95-O-6, § 8, 4-28-95)
Sec. 18-369. - Franchise fee.
The company will pay to the county a franchise fee to help defer the costs to the county of administering this division. The franchise fee will be $1,500.00 per year.
(Ord. No. 95-O-6, § 9, 4-28-95)
Sec. 18-370. - Hearings.
All hearings under this division will be held as public hearings before the Board of Commissioners of Cherokee County. All persons desiring to be heard will be heard and any person appearing at the hearing may be represented by an attorney. The hearing may be adjourned to a later date for completion of debate and all action of the board of commissioners relating to this hearing will be open to the public.
(Ord. No. 95-O-6, § 10, 4-28-95)
Sec. 18-371. - Term and renewal of franchise.
The franchise will be in full force and effect from the _____ day of ________ 19___, to the _____ day of ________, 19___. This franchise may be renewed in its present form or under revised conditions at any time before or after its expiration. The county will not agree to renew this franchise until after the county has publicly announced that proposals will be received from any person, firm or corporation desiring to obtain an ambulance franchise in the county and a deadline has been set for receiving such proposals at least two weeks after the first announcement about the proposal.
(Ord. No. 95-O-6, § 11, 4-28-95)
Sec. 18-372. - Nonexclusive franchise.
This is a nonexclusive franchise. The county does not agree to restrict the number of franchises to be issued covering any or part of the county for any person, firm or corporation in the same business, a competing business or any related business.
(Ord. No. 95-O-6, § 12, 4-28-95)
Sec. 18-373. - Minimum requirements.
All ambulance services operating within Cherokee County shall be subject to the following minimum requirements:
(1)
All operating ambulances will be staffed and equipped to provide advanced life support as described in Chapter 290-5-30 of the Rules of the Department of Human Resources Public Health. Additionally, each ambulance operating must be staffed by one Georgia certified emergency medical technician (EMT), one Georgia licensed paramedic and have the capability to provide external cardiovascutaneous cardiac pacing.
(2)
All vehicles operated must be Georgia licensed ambulance vehicles. No vehicles shall be over 60 months old at any time during operation. This refers to the original date that the chassis was manufactured into an ambulance.
(3)
Insurance for the following limits must be in force at all times during operation.
a.
General liability—$1,500,000.00.
b.
Professional liability—$1,500,000.00.
c.
Auto liability—$1,500,000.00.
d.
Workman's comp—Georgia statutory limits.
e.
Employers liability—$100,000.00, $500,000.00, $100,000.00.
(Ord. No. 95-O-6, § 13, 4-28-95)
Sec. 18-374. - Existing ambulance services.
All existing ambulance services operating within Cherokee County on the date of the adoption of this division shall be required to comply with this division within 90 days of its adoption.
(Ord. No. 95-O-6, § 14, 4-28-95)
