ARTICLE XIV. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 1401. - Conflict with other laws.
Whenever the regulations of this ordinance require a greater lot width or depth or size or yard or impose other more restrictive standards than are required in or under any other ordinance, statute or covenants, the requirements of this ordinance shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other ordinance, statute, or covenants require more restrictive standards than those of this ordinance, the provisions of such other ordinance, statutes or covenants shall govern.
Sec. 1402. - Severability clause.
Should any section or provision of this zoning ordinance be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the zoning ordinance as a whole, or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid. The mayor and city council hereby declares that it would have adopted the remaining parts of the zoning ordinance if it had known that such part or parts thereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
Sec. 1403. - Repeal of conflicting ordinances.
All resolutions and ordinances and parts of resolutions and ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed; provided however, that nothing herein shall be construed as repealing or modifying the conditions of operation or conditions of sight development accompanying those zoning approvals or use permits issued under previous zoning ordinances or resolutions, provided however, modification or repeal of such past conditions of approval may be accomplished as provided by this ordinance.
All variances and exceptions heretofore granted by the mayor and city council shall remain in full force and effect and all terms, conditions, and obligations imposed by the mayor and city council with respect thereto shall remain in effect and be binding. Prior ordinances shall remain in effect insofar as required for the initiation of any proceedings against such violations and for the prosecution of any violations and for the prosecution of any violations heretofore commended.
Sec. 1404. - Effective date.
This ordinance shall take effect and shall be in force from and after the date of its adoption [April 23, 2007], the public welfare demanding it.
