Chapter 7.5 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 168, adopted Oct. 1, 1991, amended this Code by creating a new Ch. 10.5 pertaining to emergency management. This chapter was redesignated by the editor as Ch. 7.5 to preserve the alphabetical order of chapters in the Code.
State Law reference— Emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 7.5-1. - Definition.
As used in this chapter, the term emergency management shall mean the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions other than those functions for which military forces or state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions may include, without limitation, fire fighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, protection against the effects of radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection, shelter, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian population, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out the foregoing functions.
(Ord. No. 168, 10-1-91)
Sec. 7.5-2. - Office of the DeKalb County Emergency Management Director.
It is the desire and intent of the governing officials of the city that the city be a part of the DeKalb County Emergency Management Unit. The chief executive officer of the county shall nominate for appointment, by the governor, a director of emergency management for the entire county. When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the city on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
To assist city officials in organizing city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
To develop, in conjunction with city and county departments, the DeKalb County Emergency and Disaster Operations Plan emergency functions set forth in section 7.5-1 of this chapter. The plan will be in consonance with the Georgia Natural Disaster Operations Plan and Nuclear Emergency Operations Plan, and shall be submitted to the governing officials of DeKalb County and the cities therein for approval, and thence to the Georgia Emergency Management Agency for approval.
(4)
To maintain the emergency management office and carry out the day-to-day administration of the DeKalb County Emergency Management Program, including the submission of required reports, to the Georgia Emergency Management Agency.
(5)
To submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.
(6)
To obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the DeKalb County Emergency Operating Center.
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the DeKalb County Emergency Operating Center staff during periods of an emergency, and under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Ord. No. 168, 10-1-91)
Sec. 7.5-3. - DeKalb County Emergency Management Office.
The DeKalb County Emergency Management Office shall be established around existing city and county departments and the emergency functions described in section 7.5-1 above are assigned as follows:
CEO, county commissioners, mayor
Direction and control
Police department, sheriff department
Communications and warning
Police services
Evacuation
Emergency management office
Public information
State military support
Training
Preliminary damage assessment and reporting
Public property assistance
Attack preparedness
Specific hazards
Fire department
Search, rescue and recovery
Fire services
Hazardous materials
Radiological protection
Public works
Engineering
Petroleum and solid fuel services
Utilities
DeKalb school system
Transportation services
Food services
Board of health
Health and medical services
Department of family and children services
Social services
Shelter and temporary housing
(Ord. No. 168, 10-1-91)
Sec. 7.5-4. - Powers during an emergency or disaster.
In the event of a manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of Clarkston, the mayor separately, or jointly with the CEO, county commissioners, or in their absences, their legally appointed successors, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues the following powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources;
(2)
To seize or take for temporary use, any private property for the protection of the public;
(3)
To sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies;
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Ord. No. 168, 10-1-91)
Sec. 7.5-5. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as city officers and employees.
(Ord. No. 168, 10-1-91)
Sec. 7.5-6. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable for committing a misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 168, 10-1-91)
