ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— It should be noted that § 5 of Ord. No. 2005-40, adopted April 19, 2005 provided for an effective date of June 1, 2005.
Cross reference— Building Code, § 18-26 et seq.

Sec. 22-1. - Registration of name of contractor for building and repair services.
(a)
All persons, firms, partnerships, corporations or other entities who shall undertake, transact, engage in, pursue, or carry on any business in whole or in part within the unincorporated areas of the county, consisting of or relating to building, constructing, repairing, renovating or making improvements to real property, including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixture attached thereto shall be required to register the name of the business with the Clayton County Department of Community Development, Business License Division, and shall pay a fee for such registration as provided in subsection (d).
(b)
Each separate business trade name and each separate business location shall be subject to the provisions of this section.
(c)
The registration shall include providing the name of such business, the name of the proprietor(s), the business address and the mailing address of the proprietor(s), telephone numbers, and a description of the business activities of the registrant, as well as the location(s) at which said business activities are conducted. If the registrant is other than a natural person, the registrant shall provide the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the principal officers, partners, or associates which are part of the business, rather than the information for the proprietor(s).
(d)
The annual fee for such registration is $35.00. Said fee is separate and distinct from, and in addition to, any occupational tax, regulatory fees, or administrative costs due and payable to Clayton County, Georgia, or to any other local, county, state, or federal government or governmental agency.
(e)
Failure or refusal to register the name of the business or to provide the information which is provided for in the registration, as provided herein, shall be unlawful. The penalty for such a violation shall be that provided for in section 1-12, general penalty.
(Ord. No. 2005-40, §§ 1, 2, 4-19-05)
Secs. 22-2—22-25. - Reserved.
