Sec. 4.92 - Plans Required.
A.
Attend a pre-application meeting. This meeting shall be attended by the applicant, Community Development Director, Community Development Director or their designees and other reviewing agencies. Prior to the issuance of any land development permit, building permit, or sign permit, the applicant shall submit a conceptual design package and final design package to the Community Development Director. The Community Development Director shall provide a copy of the submittals to the related district commissioner and the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners for review and comment. The final design package must include full architectural and landscape architectural plans and specifications. The submitted plans must include a site plan, architectural elevations and sections; renderings depicting the building design including elevations and architectural details of proposed buildings, exterior materials and colors, landscape plans and any shared parking agreements, all of which shall demonstrate that the proposed design is in compliance with all the requirements of this division and the underlying zoning classification.
B.
Multimodal access plans required. Each new application for a land development permit in the District shall be accompanied by a multimodal access plan prepared at a scale not greater than one (1) inch equals one hundred (100) feet. The multimodal access plan shall cover the full extent of the proposed development along with public rights-of-way of adjoining streets and any other property lying between the subject property and the nearest public streets on all sides. The purpose of the multimodal access plan is to demonstrate a unified plan of continuous access to and between all buildings in the proposed development and adjacent properties. Connections to available transportation modes, such as driveways, sidewalks, and bike paths shall be shown along adjacent streets and those entering adjoining properties. Safe and convenient pedestrian ways shall be provided from sidewalks along streets to each building entrance, including pedestrian access routes across parking lots and between adjacent buildings within the same development. Where an existing or planned public transportation station or stop is within one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) feet along travel routes from any boundary of the subject property, the access plan shall show how pedestrians and bicycle access may safely travel from such station or stop to the subject property.
C.
Attend technical review committee meeting(s). The applicant/agent is required to attend a Technical Committee Meeting, which will be set by the Community Development Department. The conceptual design package shall be accompanied by an application and payment of a fee in an amount determined by the Clayton County Board of Commissioners.
D.
Conceptual plan package review.
1.
The conceptual plan package shall be composed of the following:
(A)
A narrative addressing the proposed development explaining how it meets the purpose, intent, and standards of this division of the Code. The narrative shall include a tabulation of the approximate number of acres in each land use, the approximate number of dwelling units by type, the approximate gross residential density, the approximate commercial density, the approximate publicly accessible open space acreage, the anticipated number, type and size of recreational facilities and other public amenities; the legal mechanism for protecting and maintaining publicly accessible open space, as required by the applicable provisions of this Code.
(B)
A site location map showing the proposed development, abutting property, the relationship of the proposed development to surrounding and existing development, and transitional buffer zones, if required.
(C)
A multimodal access plan meeting the requirements of this division.
2.
The conceptual plan package shall contain a site plan that contains all of the following information:
(A)
Seven (7) copies of the site plan drawn to a designated scale of not less than one (1) inch equals one hundred (100) feet, certified by a professional engineer or land surveyor licensed by the state, presented on a sheet having a maximum size of twenty-four (24) inches by thirty-six (36) inches, and one eight-and one-half-inch reduction of the plan. If presented on more than one (1) sheet, match lines shall clearly indicate where the sheets join. The plan shall contain the following information:
(1)
Boundaries of the entire property proposed to be included in the development with bearings and distances of the perimeter property lines.
(2)
Scale and north arrow with north, to the extent feasible, oriented to the top of the plat and on all supporting graphics.
(3)
Location and approximate dimensions in length and width for landscape strips and required transitional buffers, if any.
(4)
Existing topography with a maximum contour interval of five (5) feet and a statement indicating whether it is an air survey or field run.
(5)
Approximate delineation of any floodplain designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, United States Geological Survey, or Clayton County.
(6)
The delineation of any jurisdictional wetlands as defined by section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act.
(7)
Approximate delineation of any significant historic or archaeological feature, grave, object or structure marking a place of burial, if known, and a statement indicating how the proposed development will impact it.
(8)
A delineation of all existing structures and whether they will be retained or demolished.
(9)
General location, in conceptual form, of proposed uses, lots, buildings, building types and building entrances.
(10)
Height and setback of all buildings and structures.
(11)
Approximate areas and development density for each type of proposed use.
(12)
Location, size and number of all on-street and off-street parking spaces, including a shared parking analysis, if shared parking is proposed.
(13)
Identification of site access points and layout, width of right-of-way and paved sections of all internal streets.
(14)
Conceptual plans for drainage with approximate location and estimated size of all proposed storm water management facilities and a statement as to the type of facility proposed.
(15)
Development density and lot sizes for each type of use.
(16)
Areas to be held in joint ownership, common ownership or control.
(17)
Location of proposed sidewalks and bicycle facilities, trails, recreation areas, parks, and other public or community uses, facilities, or structures on the site.
(18)
Conceptual layout of utilities and location of all existing or proposed utility easements having a width of twenty-five (25) feet or more.
(19)
Standard details of signs, sidewalks, streetlights, driveways, medians, curbs and gutters, landscaped areas, fencing, grating, street furniture, bicycle lanes, streets, alleys, and other public improvements demonstrating compliance with the District Design Guidelines.
(20)
Conceptual layout of building designs including elevations showing architectural details of proposed buildings, exterior materials, all of which shall demonstrate that the proposed design is in compliance with all of the requirements of this division.
(21)
All proposed signage shall be included in the Conceptual Plans and are subject to approval by the Director of Community Development.
(22)
Seal and signature of professional preparing the site plan.
E.
Final design package review and approval process.
1.
Review and approval of final design package. Upon receiving comments on the conceptual design package, the applicant will submit the final design package for review and approval. The final design package must include full architectural and landscape architectural plans and specifications. The submitted plans must include a site plan, architectural elevations and sections; renderings depicting the building design including elevations and architectural details of proposed buildings, exterior materials and colors, plans and elevations of all hardscape, landscape and signage and any shared parking agreements, all of which shall demonstrate that the proposed design is in compliance with all requirements of this division and the underlying zoning classification. The final design package must be signed and sealed by a professional engineer/architect. The final design package must contain all plans, elevations, sections and specifications necessary for obtaining development and building permits. The applicant may submit the final design package simultaneously with the submission for permitting.
2.
Review. The Community Development Director or designee shall review each application for compliance with all requirements of the district and the underlying zoning classification. Prior to approval by the Community Development Director or designee and issuance of any land development or building permit, the conceptual design package and final design package shall be submitted to and approved by the Community Development Director or designee after consultation with the district commissioner and the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners, consistent with the requirements of this section. Where the Community Development Director determines that said plans comply with the requirements of the Overlay District, a certificate of compliance shall be issued in the form of the director, or his/her designee signing the plans and drawings after which the applicant shall then apply for land disturbance, building or signs permits. Where the Community Development Director determines that said plans do not comply with the requirements of this Code, then the director shall provide the applicant with comments and redlined plans and drawings identifying where said applicant fails to comply with such requirements. All applications shall be considered and decided by the Community Development Director within thirty (30) days of receipt of a complete application. Any appeal of the Community Development Director's decision in this regard shall be to the zoning board of appeals.
3.
Innovative design. By enacting this division, the board of commissioners authorizes the Community Development Director to approve proposed developments that provide for unique site features and innovative designs that comply with the District Design Guidelines and comply with the requirements and standards set forth in this division.
(Ord. No. 2018-125, ยง 1, 12-18-18)
