ARTICLE II. - ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 4-81. - Investigations incident to disciplinary action.
The city council shall have the right to make such inquiry or investigation as it may find to be reasonably necessary to determine the licensee's compliance or non-compliance with this chapter. Such investigation may consist, among other actions, of calling licensees for examination under oath, obtaining evidence under oath from other persons, the procurement of documents and records including records of the licensee, and inspection and examination of records and documents from whatever source obtainable.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-82. - Suspension and revocation.
(a)
Grounds. The following shall be grounds for the suspension or revocation of a license to manufacture and distribute alcoholic beverages, and the existence of such grounds exists shall be determined by the city council in its sole discretion:
(1)
The violation by the license holder or an employee of any state or federal law or regulation, or any ordinance of this city other than minor traffic violations; provided that the determination of whether any such violation has occurred shall be made by the mayor and city council and an actual conviction in a court for such offense shall not be necessary.
(2)
The failure of the license holder or an employee to report promptly to the police department any violation of the law or a municipal ordinance, breach of peace, disturbance or altercation resulting in violation occurring inside the premise.
(3)
Any conduct on the part of the license holder or an employee contrary to the public welfare, safety, health and morals.
(4)
Operating or conducting the business in a manner contrary to the public welfare, safety, health or morals, or in such manner as to constitute a nuisance.
(5)
The violation of any state law, city ordinance or regulation pertaining to alcoholic beverages.
(6)
The failure to submit timely reports as required in this chapter.
(7)
The revocation of the licensee's state license.
(b)
Hearing.
(1)
When, in the opinion of the mayor and city council, city manager or the city clerk grounds for the suspension or revocation of the license may exist, the licensee shall be served by the chief of police.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Secs. 4-83—4-108. - Reserved.
