Sec. 4.90 - Sign Regulations.
Master Signage Plans are required for all land development within the Overlay District, as described in Article 4.11. Signs shall be required as in Article 8, Sign Regulations, of this Zoning Ordinance. All signs in the District shall comply with all applicable provisions of the Code as follows:
A.
Signs shall be designed in compliance with the applicable requirements in this overlay district.
1.
Ground/monument signs are only considered with conceptual plan review to determine if appropriate for the development site. All ground signs shall be a monument-style sign with a base and support members made of brick, stucco or stone consistent with the materials of the primary business or structure compliant with the requirements of Article 8 - Sign Code
2.
All building's front façade facing a public or private street, or private drive shall have the address numbers visible from the street or drive, and the individual numbers shall not exceed eight (8) inches in height unless incorporated in sign face design. Address numbers less than eight (8) inches in height shall be excluded from the maximum allowed sign area.
3.
Signage located on buildings shall be designed to be integrated into the building and overall façade.
4.
Each separate business front façade with an external public entrance may have a maximum of one (1) wall sign which shall not exceed an area of five (5) percent of the area of the façade of the ground floor of the building or seventy-five (75) square feet, whichever is less. Interior tenant space within a business of at least 50,000 square feet may have an additional wall sign area not to exceed a total of five (5) percent of the area of the façade of the ground floor of the building or one hundred (100) square feet, whichever is less.
5.
Signs may be externally or internally illuminated. Monument signs when permitted shall only be externally illuminated with ground lights at the base of the monument sign.
6.
No Window Signs other than payment methods, days and hours of operation. Temporary decals, placards, posters and advertisements are prohibited from being placed on the face of exterior walls or windows where it may be seen from the exterior.
7.
Wall mounted sign shall be channel cut letters applied directly to the building façade.
8.
Attached Canopy and Awning sign area shall be deducted from the permitted wall sign area.
B.
Prohibited signs:
1.
Motorist Distractions. Signs that incorporate flashing lights or beacons, highly reflective materials, rotating graphics, motion, smoke or visible matter, noise or changeable copy, that is copy that changes at intervals of more than once every six seconds, are prohibited.
2.
Roof signs. Signs that are placed on or above roofs, penthouses, mechanical equipment screens, and other like structures and any signs that extend above the building parapet or roof fascia line.
3.
Signs that are placed on vehicles or trailers that are not in regular use and are visible from a public right-of-way or major internal private drive.
4.
Pole signs and other signs with exposed structural supports that are more than three (3) feet in height and have post supports larger than two (2) inches in diameter or a total of four (4) square inches in cross-section area.
5.
Vacuum-molded or pre-manufactured signs. LED lighted signs or features
6.
Temporary Signs. Banners, streamers, pennants, flags, wind banners, air/gas filled balloons, portable signs, string lights, laser lights and search lights except as approved as a part of a permitted temporary festival or event.
7.
Flashing, animated, marquee, sound emitting, fluorescent, rotating or otherwise moving signs are prohibited.
(Ord. No. 2018-125, § 1, 12-18-18)
