ARTICLE VI. - RETAIL PACKAGE SALES OF DISTILLED SPIRITS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— License requirements, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-47.

Sec. 4-202. - Type of retail establishment where permitted.
No distilled spirits shall be sold at retail except in establishments maintaining at least 90 percent of the floor space and storage area in a manner which is devoted principally to the retail sale of products that are alcoholic and located in zoning districts that are permitted for such use. This section shall not be applicable to locations that are distilleries or micro-distilleries.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-203. - Hours and days of sale.
(a)
Retail package licensees shall not engage in the sale of distilled spirits except between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight Monday through Saturday
(b)
Retail package distilled spirits shall not be sold at any time in violation of any state law, local ordinance or regulation.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-204. - Use of tags or labels to indicate prices.
Retailers shall indicate plainly by tags or labels on the bottles or containers or on the shelf immediately below where the containers are placed the prices of all distilled spirits exposed or offered for sale.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-205. - Investigative and administrative costs.
Each application for a license under this article shall be accompanied by a certified check for the full amount of the license fee, together with a separate certified check or cash in the amount of $250.00 to defray investigative and administrative costs. If the application is denied and the license refused, or if the applicant withdraws his application prior to its being issued, the license fee shall be refunded; those costs associated with investigation and administration shall be retained. However, any person applying for more than one license shall pay only one fee to defray investigative and administrative expenses, which fee shall be the largest of the investigative and administrative fees authorized under this chapter shall be retained. As to any applicant for a license under this article who has in existence at the time of making the new application an existing license under this article, there shall be no investigative and administrative fee.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Secs. 4-206—4-231. - Reserved.
