ARTICLE 2. - ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED

Sec. 2.1 - Establishment of Standard Districts.
For the purpose of this Ordinance, the planning jurisdiction is divided into the following zoning districts for the general uses as stated. These districts shall be indicated on the Official Zoning Map and labeled using the codes noted below. Each of the zoning districts stands alone and is not part of a hierarchy-system of zoning. Only those uses and development standards which are expressly permitted and noted for each district apply to that district.
AG — Agriculture:
This district is established primarily for agricultural uses. The intent of this district is to promote and protect agricultural uses while providing limited low density rural residential development and related commercial activity.
ER — Estate Residential District:
This district is established to preserve the large lot, estate type residential character of land which presently serves as a transition between rural land and lands becoming more urban in character.
RS — 180 Residential District:
This district is established to provide for the low density development of large single-family detached homes on medium-sized lots.
RS — 110 Residential District:
This district is established to provide for the medium density development of medium-sized single-family detached homes on medium-sized lots.
RG — 75 Residential District:
This district is established to provide for the high density development of medium to small-sized single-family detached and two-family homes on small-sized lots.
RM — Multiple Family Residential:
This district is established to provide for the development of multiple family residential units, including apartments, townhomes, fee simple townhomes, condominiums, and structures containing three or more dwelling units.
RMTSF — Residential Multi-Family to Single Family
The district is established to provide existing Single Family Detached dwellings in Multi-Family Districts the ability to develop, replace, repair, and expand existing structures and not be considered non-conforming as it currently exists.
RMH — Manufactured Home Park:
This district is established to provide for the development of lease-lot residential parks which provide dwelling sites for mobile and type III manufactured homes.
OI — Office Institutional:
This district is established to provide a land use category for appropriate office, institutional, and public uses that are non-conflicting with residential uses.
GB — General Business District:
This district accommodates a wide variety of retail, service, and entertainment uses and generates an intense commercial district.
MCD — Medical Center District:
This district focuses on medical services to the exclusion of uses that do not complement the delivery of those services and are not supportive of those services. This district includes residences for the elderly and others needing convenient access to medical services.
MXI — Mixed Use Commercial-Industrial District:
This district allows a mixture of office, commercial, and light industrial uses as well as recreational uses. Industrial uses shall be oriented towards producing value added products rather than extracting materials.
UV — Urban Village District:
The UV District is established to foster compact urban settings accommodating a mix of office, hospitality, and service uses. Such settings are intended as gathering places for convenience shopping and employment, and recreation and to enhance urban living. An emphasis on public art and open space linked by walkable and multimodal urban settings in which a comingling of uses is designed to create a diverse community. The district promotes unique settings through cutting edge architecture and site design. Public improvements such as multimodal trails and public parking will promote establishment of the urban village.
CS — Conservation Subdivision District:
The district is intended to provide a non-farm residential development option that supports sustainable development, protects open space and natural resources, and retains the predominantly rural character of areas outside the urbanized areas.
Lake Marina District:
The district is established to accommodate a limited spectrum of uses associated with boating and serving the recreational and consumer needs of the boating public. These encompass outfitter shops, small cafes and grills, bait and tackle shops and boat fuel sales. As the marina is open to the public, temporary parking for private vehicles will be provided. In order to maintain the quiet character of the lake and to limit the scale of the marina, such facilities as are common to larger marinas such as boat storage and boat repairs are not contemplated by the Marina District.
MX — Mixed Use District:
The Mixed Use District is intended to capitalize on the market demand for reduced commuting times and an environment that offers a wide range of services, activities, and housing options. A full range of urban housing, employment, retail and entertainment options is accommodated by the Mixed Use District.
LI — Light Industrial:
This district is established to provide a land use category for assembly, warehousing, wholesale activities, and other light industrial operations.
HI — Heavy Industrial:
This district is established to provide a land use category for manufacturing, assembling, and fabrication activities including large scale or specialized industrial operations.
WH — Warehouse:
This district is established for the express purpose of allowing warehousing and related uses.
(Ord. No. 2017-41, § 2, 5-30-17; Ord. No. 2019-38, § 1, 3-19-19; Ord. No. 2021-248, Pt. I(§ 1), 11-16-21)
Sec. 2.2 - Standard District Land Uses.
Specific land uses are either Permitted, Non-Permitted or a Conditional Use in each Zoning District. Clayton County's permitted and Conditional Uses for each district are noted in the Permitted Use and Conditional Use columns in Article 3 of this Ordinance.
Sec. 2.3 - Establishment of Planned Unit Development District.
This Ordinance allows for land in all zoning districts to be rezoned for the creation of a planned unit development. All planned unit developments shall be consistent with the requirements found in Article 7, Planned Unit Development, of this Ordinance. Planned unit developments shall be indicated on the Official Zoning Map using the three-digit PUD code.
