ARTICLE XII. - SHORT TERM RENTAL UNITS

Sec. 22-900. - Short-term rental unit.
For the purposes of this chapter, a short-term rental unit is defined as any nonsubsidized house, apartment, condominium, room or lodging accommodation on any property within the county that is rented to the same tenant/or a period of less than 30 days. A short-term rental unit shall be located inside or adjacent to its owner's occupied dwelling located on the same property. The definitions and regulations in this chapter shall be cumulative to those found in section 1.5 of the county's zoning ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2019-22, § 1, 2-5-19)
Sec. 22-901. - Short-term rental unit permitted.
(a)
Short-term rental units may only be operated in the county pursuant to this article.
(b)
The owner, platform or manager operating a short-term rental unit shall hold a valid county business license. The business license number shall be included in any advertisement of the short-term rental unit.
(c)
Each individual short-term rental unit shall be permitted with the county. Prior to issuance of a permit for a short-term rental unit, each property containing a short-term rental unit shall be inspected for compliance with all building and fire codes. A short-term rental unit permit is valid for one year from the date of issuance.
(d)
All parking for short-term rental units shall be accommodated on the same lot as the short-term rental unit.
(e)
Prior to rental of the unit, all owners or hosts shall post the county's noise ordinance in a visible location in the short-term rental unit.
(f)
The county may request that the owner, hosting platform and/or manager of multiple short-term rental units submit, in an electronic comma-delimited format or similar format such as MS Excel, the following information:
(1)
The address of each short-term rental unit owned, managed or offered on the operator's hosting platform for occupancy for short-term rental use and was occupied for that use during that quarterly reporting period;
(2)
The total number of nights that the short-term rental unit was occupied for short-term rental use;
(3)
The amounts paid for the occupancy of that short-term rental unit including taxes paid; and
(4)
The name(s) of the person(s) responsible for each short-term rental unit listed.
(Ord. No. 2019-22, § 1, 2-5-19)
Sec. 22-902. - Denial, suspension and revocation.
(a)
Notwithstanding the grounds for revocation set forth in section 22-34(a) of this chapter, a permit may be revoked by the county at any time, due to the failure of the permit holder to comply with any requirements of this article. Notice of revocation shall be made in writing to the permit holder. Any person aggrieved by such notice may appeal the revocation pursuant to this chapter.
(b)
An advertisement promoting the availability of property containing short-term rental units in violation of this chapter shall be prima facie evidence of a violation, and may be grounds for denial, suspension or revocation of a license.
(Ord. No. 2019-22, § 1, 2-5-19)
Sec. 22-903. - Cease and desist notice; injunctions.
(a)
In addition to the other remedies under this article, upon request by the chief of police or the director of the community development department, the county attorney may send notice to the owner, platform or manager operating a short-term rental unit in violation of this article to cease and desist activity that is in violation of this article. The notice shall be sent to the owner, platform or manager via certified mail, return receipt requested. Notices shall be deemed effective (i) when delivered if personally delivered; (ii) by the date indicated on the receipt if sent by overnight mail; or, (iii) three days after deposit in the United States Mail or the date indicated on the return receipt as a delivery date, whichever is earlier, if mailed by certified or registered mail.
(b)
The county attorney may file an injunction against any owner, platform or manager operating a short-term rental unit without a valid county business license issued by the Clayton County Department of Community Development.
(Ord. No. 2019-102, § 1, 8-20-19)
Secs. 22-904—22-950. - Reserved.
