ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 1-1. - Burial of paupers and unclaimed remains.
(a)
Findings. The intent of the board of commissioners in enacting this article is to more clearly define and/or delineate the county's Junction in reference to pauper and/or indigent burials. The authority from which this article derives is governed by O.C.G.A. § 36-12-5 of the Official Code of Georgia Code. If any portion of this article is in derogation of the above code section, the state law will prevail. The county is responsible under O.C.G.A. § 36-12-5 for providing an indigent decedent either a decent interment or cremation at the discretion of the county governing authority.
(b)
Temporary storage of human remains under the jurisdiction of the medical examiner.
(1)
When next of kin have been located.
a.
In those cases where the deceased's estate or next of kin have not taken custody of the remains, the medical examiner's office shall provide for the safe storage of human remains returned from the state or otherwise unclaimed. The remains shall be stored in the morgue.
b.
Once the next of kin have been notified of the death, it is expected that they shall promptly arrange for a funeral home to take custody of the remains for proper burial or cremation. The medical examiner 's office shall hold the body at no cost for no more than two days after the estate, next of kin or legal representative has been notified. After the second day, the medical examiner's office shall charge a daily storage fee for each day the body is unclaimed until the 15 th day. After 15 days, the remains shall be handled as unclaimed remains as provided for in this article.
(2)
When next of kin have not been located or are otherwise unknown. If the next of kin cannot be located within 15 days, the remains shall be handled as unclaimed remains as provided for in this article.
(c)
Cremation of unclaimed remains.
(1)
After the required time has expired and the human remains have not been claimed by the estate or next of kin, the medical examiner shall cause an ad to run in the legal ad section of the legal organ of the county once a week for two consecutive weeks. Said ad shall notify any family and/or relatives that they should notify the medical examiner's office immediately if they wish to claim the body to give the decedent a decent interment or cremation. The medical examiner's office shall charge a daily storage fee for each day the body is unclaimed until the body is cremated pursuant to subsection (2) below.
(2)
After the ad has run and no one has claimed the remains, the medical examiner or designee shall cause the remains to be cremated for the health and safety of staff and the public. The cremated remains shall be safely stored by the office of the medical examiner for 12 months.
(3)
Anyone claiming the remains for burial shall reimburse the County for the cost of the storage of the remains and the cost of the cremation.
(4)
After the 12-month period has expired, the cremated remains shall be interred at the discretion of the medical examiner or designee.
(Ga. Laws 1992, p. 7080, § 1; Ord. No. 2022-247, § 1, 11-1-22)
Sec. 1-2. - Indigent burial amount.
(a)
The funds paid for cremation or decent internment of indigent decedents shall not exceed the contracted amount per body.
(b)
Payment shall be made following the cremation or burial of an indigent decedent based upon receipt of a proper invoice submitted to the Finance Department or as otherwise specified in any contract for services.
(c)
Any payment made by the county to a funeral home is conditioned upon the receipt of no additional payments from any other source for the cremation or decent internment of an indigent decedent.
(Ord. No. 2022-247, § 1, 11-1-22)
