Chapter 28 - OFFENSES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Crimes generally, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; maximum penalties that may be imposed by municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-35-6, 36-32-1, 36-32-5; additional penalties and bond in certain criminal and traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5; powers of municipal court judges in criminal cases, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-3; jurisdiction of municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-6 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 28-1. - Tampering with public property.
No person in the city shall tamper with, injure, deface, destroy, or remove any sign, notice, marker, fire alarm box, fire-plug, topographical survey monument or any other personal property erected or placed by the city.
State Law reference— Damaging municipal property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.
Sec. 28-2. - Posting bills; defacing property.
No person shall post any bills, advertisements or other notices of any kind on any public or private building, property or grounds in the city, nor write, paint, draw, carve, or cut any letters, words or devices on any such property in this city without the owner's consent.
State Law reference— Damaging municipal property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25; placement of posters, signs, and advertisements on public or private property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-58.
Sec. 28-3. - Unnecessary noise.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made or continued any excessive or unusually loud noise or any noise which either annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others, within the limits of the city.
Sec. 28-4. - Use of skates and skateboards restricted.
It is unlawful for any person to use skates or skateboards on city streets, sidewalks, and public parks, or on private property without the permission of the owner of the property.
Sec. 28-5. - Littering streets and sidewalks.
Any person charged with the offense of throwing trash, beverage cans or other litter on the streets or sidewalks of the city shall be charged with the offense of disorderly conduct.
State Law reference— Littering, O.C.G.A. §§ 16-7-40 et seq., 40-6-249; Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.
Sec. 28-6. - Hazardous excavations.
No person shall leave any well, hole or pit in the ground uncovered or insecurely covered on any unenclosed premises in this city, or leave such well, pit or hole in the ground in such condition as to be dangerous to any persons or domestic animals.
Sec. 28-7. - Unlawful assembly; failure to disperse.
It shall be unlawful for any two or more persons, after having assembled on private property of any other person within the corporate limits of the city in the absence of, and without first having obtained the permission of, the owner, tenant in possession, or person in charge of such private property to assemble thereon, or to fail to disperse and cease such assembly upon being directed to do so by any police officer of the city.
(Code 1999, § 42-1; Ord. No. 91-2, § 1, 2-12-1991)
State Law reference— Unlawful assembly, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-33; inciting to riot, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-31.
Sec. 28-8. - Trespass on business property during prohibited hours.
(a)
Signposting. Any private property owner or operator of a business establishment or person managing a business establishment who desires to have his property to come under the provision of this section shall place a sign upon his private property plainly visible to the public from the adjacent street, highway or alley, which sign shall be in print and shall state the hours the property is closed to the general public and that persons are forbidden to enter thereon during such hours. Such property is protected by the city private property security ordinance.
(b)
Written permission required; penalty for violation of section. It is unlawful for any person other than the owner or person having management and control over the private property thus brought under the city private property security ordinance to enter upon the private property without written permission in his possession from the owner or other person having control over such private property during prohibited hours and as posted on the sign. A person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of disorderly conduct.
(c)
Enforcement. The police officers of the city are hereby directed to enforce the provisions of this section.
(d)
Exceptions. Members of an emergency organization such as the fire department, rescue squad, civil defense and law enforcement officers while and at such times they are actively engaged in protection of persons and property or law enforcement shall not be guilty of a violation of the terms of this section.
(Code 1999, § 42-2; Ord. of 10-14-1980)
Sec. 28-9. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the city to violate any of the following provisions of this section:
(1)
Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any person is placed in fear of safety of his life, limb or health.
(2)
Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged.
(3)
Any person who shall cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct as so to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another.
(4)
Any person who shall assemble or congregate with one or more persons for the purpose or with the intent of gaming.
(5)
Any person who shall frequent any public place with intent to obtain money from other persons by illegal and fraudulent schemes, artifices or devises.
(6)
Any person who assembles for the purpose of engaging in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any place or from any person in the city or who shall aid or abet therein.
(7)
Any person who shall accost or force his company upon any person.
(8)
Any person who frequents any place where gaming or the illegal sale or possession of alcoholic beverages, narcotics or dangerous drugs is practiced, allowed or tolerated.
(9)
Any person who shall use fighting words directed towards any person who becomes outraged and thus creates a turmoil.
(10)
Any person who shall by acts of violence interfere with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation.
(11)
Any person who shall congregate with one or more persons in or on any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and who refuses to clear such public way when ordered by the city police or other lawful authority.
(12)
Any person who shall disrupt, by excessive noise or disorderly actions, the undisturbed activities of any institution of learning, house of worship or any hospital.
(13)
Any person who shall throw any bottle, paper, can, glass, stick, stone, missile or any other debris on public property.
(14)
Any person who shall commit an act of public indecency tending to debauch the morals of any person.
(15)
Any person who shall be found in a state of drunkenness or intoxication upon the public rights-of-way, city or other publicly owned property or any public park.
(16)
Any person who commits any act against public safety, morality and decency, or who exhibits any other conduct that is manifestly disorderly that tends to disturb other persons anywhere in the city.
(Code 1999, § 42-3)
State Law reference— Reckless conduct, O.C.G.A. § 16-5-60; riot, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-30; fighting, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-32; loitering, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-36; profanity, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-39.
Sec. 28-10. - Creating a hazardous condition.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the City of Clayton to act in such a manner, in his/her own person, in the operation of a motor vehicle or other transportation device, or through the placement or construction of any movable or permanent fixture to create a hazardous condition detrimental to the public welfare and safety.
(Ord. of 5-16-2017(1) )
Sec. 28-11. - Alcoholic beverages in outdoor public spaces; prohibitions and exceptions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or publicly exhibit any opened vinous, malt, or distilled alcoholic beverage while upon any street sidewalk, alleyway, parking lot, or other public area located within the incorporated area of the city; no distinction shall be made if beverage is contained in original or alternate container.
(b)
Businesses located within the incorporated area that possess proper alcohol licensure, may allow patrons to consume alcoholic beverages in outdoor dining areas provided that patrons do not exit the curtilage of the outdoor dining area.
(c)
Alcoholic beverages may be consumed in public areas at events, celebrations, ceremonies, or festivals that are approved by the city, and only within the areas specified by permit.
(Ord. of 6-19-2018 )
Secs. 28-12—28-36. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MINORS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 28-37—28-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CURFEW

Sec. 28-61. - Applicability; exceptions.
It is unlawful for any minor 17 years of age or younger to loiter, wander, stroll or play in or upon or be upon public streets, sidewalks, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places, public buildings, places of amusement, eating places, vacant lots or any place unsupervised by an adult over the age of 18 years having lawful parental authority over such minor or an adult who is the lawful guardian of such minor, between the hours of 12:00 midnight on any day and 5:00 a.m. of the following day; and provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply in the following instances:
(1)
When a minor is accompanied by his parent, guardian or other adult person having the lawful care and custody of the minor;
(2)
When the minor is upon an emergency errand directed by his parent or guardian or other adult person having the lawful care and custody of such minor;
(3)
When the minor is returning directly home from a school activity or entertainment, and school sponsored or school related events, including recreational activities or dances;
(4)
When the minor is returning directly home from lawful employment that makes it necessary to be in the above-referenced places during the prescribed period of time;
(5)
When the minor is attending or traveling directly to or from an activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of speech, freedom of assembly or free exercise of religion;
(6)
When the minor is in a motor vehicle with parental consent or the consent of the lawful guardian for normal travel with interstate travel through the city excepted in all cases from the curfew; and
(7)
When the minor is on the property of the building in which he resides.
Sec. 28-62. - Parental responsibility for compliance; penalties.
It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other person having custody or control of any child 17 years of age or younger to permit or by insufficient control to allow such child to be in violation of this division. Upon conviction of this section for the first time, a person shall be given a warning by the court. Such warning shall be entered on the court records for filing. Second and subsequent violations shall be subject to penalties as provided in section 1-13.
