ARTICLE IX. - ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 94.

Sec. 14-221. - Health of the animal.
No animal shall be permitted to pull any carriage unless the animal is in good health and meets at least the following requirements:
(1)
All draft animals must weigh at least 1,000 pounds.
(2)
The animal must have no major open sores or wounds and not be lame or have any other ailment, unless a veterinarian states in writing that the animal shall not be affected unduly by the proposed work.
(3)
The hooves of the animal must be properly shod and trimmed.
(4)
The animal must be groomed daily and not have fungus, dandruff or a poor or dirty coat.
(5)
The animals must have adequate flesh and muscle tone.
(Code 1973, § 2-5-90)
Sec. 14-222. - Animal working conditions.
(a)
No animal shall be worked under any of the following conditions:
(1)
No animal shall be permitted to draw a carriage equipped with ball bearing wheels which hauls more than 12 people (including the driver) or a carriage equipped with bushing wheels which hauls more than nine people (including the driver).
(2)
Total hours worked may not exceed eight in any 24-hour period with 15-minute rest periods between each trip, if the animal is used to haul people or goods.
(3)
Between the dates of June 1 and August 31, total hours worked by any animal shall not exceed six in a 24-hour period with a 15-minute rest for every hour worked.
(4)
The animal pulling a carriage shall not move at a speed faster than a slow trot.
(5)
No animal shall work with equipment causing an impairment of vision, other than normal blinders.
(6)
No animal shall be subject to any conditions which will impair the good health and physical condition of the animal.
(b)
The animal control unit may order the temporary suspension of the operation of any animal-drawn vehicle upon a determination that special circumstances exist which jeopardize the safety of the animal, such as bad weather or other environmental problems.
(Code 1973, § 2-5-91)
Sec. 14-223. - Equipment and facilities.
Equipment and facilities with respect to animal-drawn vehicles must meet the following minimum standards:
(1)
The harness and bit shall be of standard construction and appropriate for the animal. It shall be properly fitted, padded and maintained, and kept free of makeshift wire, sisal rope and chain. The harness must be oiled and cleaned so as to be soft at all times.
(2)
Carriages must be properly lubricated and wheels must spin freely.
(3)
No driver may whip any animal with more than a light touch by a light whip.
(4)
Adequate water shall be provided in the working area and stables at all times.
(5)
Drivers of animal-drawn vehicles shall maintain stands in a sanitary condition at all times.
(6)
Stalls and stables must comply with the following:
a.
Ceilings in the stalls and stables must be at least ten feet high from bedding and flooring. Bedding therein must be at least six inches deep and dry enough so as not to show wetness under the pressure of the animal's hoofs. Sharp surfaces shall not be permitted in any area or building where they may come in contact with the animals.
b.
Roofs must be kept free of leaks.
c.
Each animal must have a stall large enough for the animal to turn around.
d.
Food must be kept free of contamination.
e.
Animal areas must be treated to exterminate and repel insects.
f.
Ventilation must be provided in hot weather.
(Code 1973, § 2-5-92)
Sec. 14-224. - Inspections.
The animal control unit shall be permitted to inspect all animals, carriages, stalls and stables at any reasonable time to ensure compliance with all provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1973, § 2-5-93)
Secs. 14-225—14-245. - Reserved.
