ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE[8]
Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
State Law reference— Municipal finance generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; adoption of budget articles and resolutions, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; political subdivision audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-7; accounting for public funds, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-1; limitations on use of purchasing and contract procedures, O.C.G.A. § 34-4-3.1; municipal bonds, O.C.G.A. § 36-38-1; standards for city and county audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-8; officer responsible for political subdivision investments, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-4; public works bidding, O.C.G.A. § 36-91-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-405. - Temporary loans.
The mayor and council may obtain short term loans in the name of the city when approved by the council. Any such indebtedness shall be payable solely from the proceeds of a duly authorized bond issue or from a specified designated source, unless there is a prior appropriation out of which such indebtedness could be paid.
(Comp. Ords. 1970, § 3-103)
Secs. 2-406—2-423. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BUDGET

Sec. 2-424. - Fiscal year.
The city shall operate on a fiscal year which shall begin on July 1 and end on June 30.
(Comp. Ords. 1970, § 5-301)
State Law reference— Fiscal year required to be established by ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3.
Sec. 2-425. - Proposed budget.
The city's budget shall be prepared, reviewed, and approved annually pursuant to the procedure provided by the city Charter and general law.
(Comp. Ords. 1970, § 5-302)
State Law reference— Annual budget generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3 et seq.; adoption of budget, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-6.
Sec. 2-426. - Financial statement.
The mayor and council shall cause to be published, within six months after the close of each fiscal year and in accordance with state law, a general balance sheet and statement of revenues and expenditures showing all municipal accounts as of the close of such preceding fiscal year.
(Comp. Ords. 1970, § 5-303)
Secs. 2-427—2-450. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PURCHASES[9]

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; multiple-year contracts and leases, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-13; public works contracts, O.C.G.A. § 36-84-1 et seq.; municipal purchases through state department of administrative services, O.C.G.A. § 50-5-100 et seq.

Sec. 2-451. - Purchasing procedures.
(a)
No officer or employee of the city shall purchase for or on behalf of the city or his office any materials, supplies, goods, wares, merchandise or equipment of any kind or character except through the approval of the mayor and council except purchases by the mayor and city council and emergency purchases as provided in this division. No voucher check or other method of payment shall be honored if this method is not followed.
(b)
It shall be considered a breach of duty on the part of any officer or employee of the city to make any purchase or aid and abet the making of any purchase by any other manner than through the mayor and city council, except as otherwise specifically provided herein.
(c)
Purchases of up to $1,000.00 may be made by authorized personnel without approval from the mayor and council or their designee provided that the purchase is a budgeted item. Any purchase over $1,000.00 shall require the approval of the mayor and council.
(d)
The officer or employee desiring to make a purchase shall first submit to the mayor and council a requisition form, to be provided by the city clerk, which shall identify the officer or employee seeking the purchase, the department for which the purchase is sought, at least three bids on the item to be purchased or explanation as to why bids were not obtained, the quantity of items sought to be purchased, the purchase price of each unit and the total price and any other information required by the mayor and council or their designee. Upon approval of the requisition, the mayor and council or the clerk, at his direction, shall issue the purchase order.
(e)
All invoices shall be turned in on a daily basis and shall be attached to the purchase orders. All such invoices shall be submitted to the mayor and council or their designee.
Sec. 2-452. - Purchase orders.
(a)
No officer or employee of the city shall request any merchant, dealer or other vendor to deliver goods to the city or any department or officer or employee thereof except on a regular purchase order approved by the mayor and council or their designee, except as provided for emergencies.
(b)
All purchase orders must be executed by the mayor and council or their designee.
(c)
Any purchases made without obtaining a purchase order in advance shall be disallowed and payment refused. No purchase order will be issued after the fact. Vendors, merchants and dealers will be deemed to have dealt with any employee or officer who does not have a purchase order at their own risk.
Sec. 2-453. - Emergency purchases.
(a)
In all cases where there is immediate need for any materials, supplies, goods, wares or merchandise by any department, such department must advise the mayor and council or, if they cannot be located, a member of the city council. If none of the above can be reached and the purchase of the item is absolutely necessary, such purchase must be reported to the mayor and council or their designee within 24 hours of such purchase.
(b)
For the purposes of this section, the term "emergency" means a situation where immediate action is absolutely necessary and delay would adversely affect the life, health or safety of the citizens of the city or the property of the city.
Sec. 2-454. - Substitution of items of equal quality.
In all purchases where quality as well as price and service are involved, the city administrator, at his direction, shall exercise discretion in making the purchase. In all cases where patented items or special purpose items are requested, the city administrator, at his direction, has the discretionary authority to decide whether similar products of equal quality and at a lower price shall be ordered in lieu of items requested.
Sec. 2-455. - Competitive bids and exceptions.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided by the city council, the city shall make all purchases in excess of $20,000.00 by competitive bid except for those relating to the following:
(1)
Repair to existing equipment and motor vehicles;
(2)
Emergency purchases;
(3)
Gasoline, fuel and oil;
(4)
Routine building and maintenance repairs;
(5)
Materials and services, when available from only one source;
(6)
Professional services rendered at the direction of council;
(7)
Purchases from state or federal agencies.
(b)
All bids for goods and materials purchased by the city shall be kept on file at the office of the city clerk and shall be subject to inspection at any time.
Sec. 2-456. - Depreciation of city property.
Any property purchased by the city having a value of $5,000.00 or more shall be considered a depreciable asset.
Sec. 2-457. - Sale of city property.
(a)
No property belonging to the city shall be sold except after approval of the city council.
(b)
When any property owned by the city has become surplus, unserviceable or useless, the head of the department in charge of the property shall certify to the city council that such property is no longer useful and should be disposed of.
(c)
Any property to be sold shall be sold at public sale either by sealed bid or public outcry to the highest bidder for cash, provided that nothing in this section shall prevent the city from donating or exchanging such surplus property with other governmental units or quasi-governmental units.
State Law reference— Sale of municipal property, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-6.
Sec. 2-458. - Violation grounds for discharge.
Violation of any provision of this division shall be determined a violation of the city personnel policy and shall be deemed sufficient grounds for discharge.
Secs. 2-459—2-484. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - PUBLC WORKS CONTRACTS

Sec. 2-485. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
City contract means any contract for construction for the city or negotiated by the city for the benefit of the public or an individual, firm or corporation, regardless of whether or not the city is a party to the contract.
Construction means improvements or repairs the objective of which are to build, install, repair or improve a permanent structure, location, system or device with lumber, masonry, concrete, asphalt, rock, gravel, metal, plastic, glass or other similar material, to include necessary machinery, appliances or other fixtures and devices necessary for proper completion of such improvement or repairs.
Longterm or substantial means any contract of a duration exceeding 12 months or involving the payment by the city of more than $50,000.00 for any goods, services, equipment or materials.
Permanent means having a useful life of five years or more.
Sec. 2-486. - Contracting procedures.
(a)
No longterm or substantial contract with the city shall be binding on the city unless it is:
(1)
In writing;
(2)
Drawn by or submitted and reviewed by the city attorney, and, as a matter of course, signed by the city attorney to indicate such drafting or review; and
(3)
Made or authorized by the city council, such approval being entered in the city council minutes of proceedings.
(b)
The city shall follow the requirements of state law with regard to any public works construction projects as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-91-1 et seq., or other such applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted, in giving notice, receiving bids, requiring performance and payment bonds, and entering into contracts for such projects.
Sec. 2-487. - Bids required.
Every city construction contract in the amount of $20,000.00 and over shall require competitive bidding.
Sec. 2-488. - Application of state law.
The provisions of O.C.G.A. § 13-10-1, as the same may hereafter be amended, shall apply to all city construction contracts within limits specified therein.
State Law reference— Bonds for public works contracts, O.C.G.A. § 13-10-1.
Sec. 2-489. - Invitation to bid; advertisement.
No city construction contract within the regulation of this article shall be entered into until an invitation to bid has been published at least two times one week apart in the official legal organ of the city. The invitation will state the nature of the work to be performed, the project description, if applicable, and the location where specifications for the work, bid documents and bid requirements may be obtained.
Sec. 2-490. - Bid bonds or other security.
(a)
In every instance where the city is seeking a contract subject to this article, the city may require a bid bond with good and sufficient surety approved by the city clerk for the faithful acceptance of the contract, payable to the city and for the protection of the city and the person for which the city seeks to contract. Any bid bond required by the city under this section shall be in the amount of not less than five percent of the total payable by the terms of the contract.
(b)
In lieu of the bid bond provided for in subsection (a) of this section, a cashier's check, certified check or cash may be accepted by the city upon approval by the city council in such amount payable and for the protection aforesaid.
Sec. 2-491. - Performance bond; payment bond.
(a)
Every contractor subject to the provisions of this division shall furnish a performance bond with good and sufficient surety payable to, in favor of, and for the protection of the city and/or the person for whom the work is to be done. The performance bond shall be in the amount of at least the total amount payable by the terms of the contract.
(b)
Every contractor subject to provisions of this division shall furnish a payment bond with good and sufficient surety payable to the city and/or the person for whom the work is to be done and for the use and protection of all subcontractors and all persons supplying labor, materials, machinery, and equipment in the prosecution of the work provided for in the contract.
(c)
In lieu of either or both of the bonds provided for in subsections (a) or (b) of this section, the city may accept a cashier's check, certified check or cash in the amount of either or both of the otherwise required bonds for the usage and protection aforesaid.
Sec. 2-492. - Workers compensation insurance required.
All contractors performing work subject to this division shall have workers' compensation insurance within limits required by the laws of the state.
Sec. 2-493. - Vehicle liability insurance required.
All contractors performing work subject to this division shall have vehicle liability insurance on each vehicle used in the work, with limits not less than $100,000.00 per person and $300,000.00 per incident for personal injuries and $50,000.00 property damage.
Sec. 2-494. - Public liability insurance required.
All contractors performing work subject to this division shall have public liability insurance with limits not less than $100,000.00 personal injury and $50,000.00 property damage.
Sec. 2-495. - Period of insurance coverage; additional insured; copies.
Insurance required by this division shall be effective for the time required to complete the city contract. With the exception of workers' compensation insurance, the city and/or the party for whom the city has arranged the work shall be listed as an additional insured. Copies of insurance policies evidencing compliance with this division must be furnished to city prior to commencing contract performance.
Sec. 2-496. - Bonds; acceptability.
All bonds required by this division shall be obtained from companies holding certificates of authority as acceptable sureties currently listed as such in federal publications.
Secs. 2-497—2-515. - Reserved.
