ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority of council to bind subsequent council, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-3; council members incompetent to hold other municipal office, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-4; effect of residence in annexed territory as qualification for office, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-5; voting when personally interested, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-6; method of calling election in the event all seats in municipal governing authority are vacant, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-13; initial terms of office of members of governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-31-9.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-21. - Members; authority.
The city is governed by the city council, consisting of the mayor and four council members who are vested with all corporate, legislative and other powers of the city as permitted by the city Charter and by law. The council shall be the final judge of the election and qualifications of its members, also of the amount and manner of compensating them for their services, to the extent permitted by the city Charter and state law.
Sec. 2-22. - Residency requirements.
(a)
To be eligible for the office of mayor, a candidate shall have been a resident of the city for 12 months immediately preceding the date of qualification for election. An elected mayor must continue to reside in the corporate limits of the city during his term in office and must be qualified and registered to vote in municipal elections in the city.
(b)
To be eligible for the office of councilmember, a candidate shall have been a resident of the city and of the ward for which the candidate seeks election for 12 months immediately preceding the date of qualification for election. An elected councilmember shall continue to reside in the corporate limits of the city, in the ward from which he is elected, during his term in office and must be qualified and registered to vote in municipal elections in the city.
Sec. 2-23. - Election; term; vacancies.
The mayor and councilmembers shall be elected as provided in the city Charter or by general law to serve terms of four years and until their successors in office are elected and qualified. Terms shall begin on January 1 and expire on December 31 as provided in the city's Charter. Vacancies in office shall be filled as provided in the city Charter or by general law.
Sec. 2-24. - Compensation; reimbursement of expenses.
(a)
Generally. That part of the salary of the mayor and each councilmember which is earned by attending each meeting of the city council at which a quorum is present shall be paid monthly, and the remainder of the respective salaries of the mayor and each councilmember shall be paid annually.
(b)
Mayor. The annual salary of the mayor shall be the sum of $3,000.00, plus an amount equal to the sum of $50.00 for each meeting of the city council at which a quorum is present which is attended by the mayor.
(c)
Councilmember for Ward No. 1. The annual salary of the councilmember for Ward No. 1 shall be the sum of $2,400.00, plus an amount equal to the sum of $50.00 for each meeting of the city council at which a quorum is present which is attended the councilmember for Ward No. 1.
(d)
Councilmember for Ward No. 2. The annual salary of the councilmember for Ward No. 2 shall be the sum of $2,400.00, plus an amount equal to the sum of $50.00 for each meeting of the city council at which a quorum is present which is attended the councilmember for Ward No. 2.
(e)
Councilmember for Ward No. 3. The annual salary of the councilmember for Ward No. 3 shall be the sum of $2,400.00, plus an amount equal to the sum of $50.00 for each meeting of the city council at which a quorum is present which is attended the councilmember for Ward No. 3.
(f)
Councilmember for Ward No. 4. The annual salary of the councilmember for Ward No. 4 shall be the sum of $2,400.00, plus an amount equal to the sum of $50.00 for each meeting of the city council at which a quorum is present which is attended the councilmember for Ward No. 4.
(Ord. of 10-12-1987, § 2; Ord. of 10-11-1999, §§ 1—5)
State Law reference— Authority to provide compensation and employee benefits to municipal officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Secs. 2-25—2-51. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MEETINGS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Open meetings and notice of meetings required, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1; meetings of governing bodies of counties and municipalities to be open, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-1.

Sec. 2-52. - Meetings.
(a)
Regular meetings. The city council shall hold regular meetings semimonthly on the first and second Monday of each month at 6:30 p.m. in the council room of the city hall, or on such other regular days and at such other regular times as may be determined from time to time by the city council.
(b)
Special meetings. The council may hold special meetings or work sessions on the call of the mayor or the mayor pro tem and two councilmembers. Notice of any such special meetings or work sessions shall be served on all other councilmembers personally or by personal telephone contact, no less than 24 hours in advance of the meeting. The notice requirements of this section shall not be required and shall be waived if the mayor and all councilmembers are present when this special meeting or work sessions are called. Such notice of any special meeting or work session may also be waived by a councilmember in writing before or after such a meeting. Attendance at a special meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice on any business transacted in a councilmember's presence. Only the business stated in the notice may be transacted at a special meeting, unless all councilmembers unanimously consent to the transacting of additional business.
(c)
Work sessions. The mayor and city council may hold work sessions at such times as is necessary to carry out their duties. At work sessions, the mayor and council may discuss, deliberate, plan, or debate current city issues but may not take any vote or formal action and shall not publish or follow a formal agenda.
(d)
Open meetings. All meetings of the mayor and council shall be public to the extent required by law, and notice to the public of any special meetings shall be given, to the extent reasonably possible, as provided in O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1, or other such applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(e)
Chairperson. In the absence of the mayor and mayor pro tem, any member of the council may be chosen to take the chair at the hour appointed for any meeting.
(f)
Compelling attendance of witnesses. The mayor and council may also adopt procedures and penalties for compelling the attendance of absent members, as well as punishment for contemptuous behavior conducted in the presence of the mayor and council.
(g)
Quorum. A majority of councilmembers present shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the city council. A less number may adjourn from time to time and compel attendance of absentees.
(h)
Voting. Voting on the adoption of any ordinances shall be by voice vote, and the vote shall be recorded in the minutes of the council. Any member of the council shall have the right to request a roll call vote, and such vote shall also be recorded in the minutes, if requested. Except as otherwise provided in the city Charter or by general law, the affirmative vote of three councilmembers, including the mayor, in the event of a tie vote, shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion. All councilmembers shall have a duty to vote on any matter coming before the mayor and council that requires such a vote, unless a councilmember has a conflict of interest as defined in the city Charter or is as otherwise legally excused or prohibited from voting by the Charter, or any other laws, ordinances, or regulations of this state.
(i)
Committee reports. Every committee shall report at the succeeding meeting of the council on all matters referred to them or show good cause why such report is not made.
(j)
Duty to attend. It shall be the duty of each member of the city council to attend each meeting of the city council unless he is prevented by some unavoidable circumstance.
(Ord. No. 2018-02, 3-5-2018)
State Law reference— Open meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-53. - Agenda.
(a)
Preparation of agenda. The city clerk, with the advice of the mayor and council, shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. The agenda shall be made available to the council and to the public at some time during the week immediately prior to the meeting. Members of the public may request that a particular subject be placed on the agenda for the following meeting. This request must be submitted in writing to the city clerk and received at least three business days before the meeting. A new subject that requires attention may be added to the agenda during a meeting by a majority vote of the council.
(b)
Public hearings regarding zoning issues. Public hearings regarding zoning shall be conducted in accordance with O.C.G.A. §§ 36-66-4 and 36-66-5 and shall constitute an exception to the provisions of this section that conflict with such statutes.
State Law reference— Meeting agenda required, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1.
Sec. 2-54. - Minutes of meetings.
(a)
Required; open to public. A summary of the subjects acted on and those members present at a meeting must be written and made available to the public for inspection within two business days of the adjournment of a meeting. The city clerk shall promptly record the minutes for each council meeting, and such records shall be open to public inspection once approved as official by the council, but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the council.
(b)
Minimum contents of minutes. Minutes must, as a minimum, include the names of the members present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made, and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll call vote, the name of each person voting for or against a proposal must be recorded. In all other cases, it shall be presumed that the action taken was approved by each person in attendance unless the minutes reflect the name of the persons voting against the proposal or abstaining.
Sec. 2-55. - Authority to conduct inquiries and investigations; subpoena power.
The mayor or city council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department, office or agency thereof, and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the mayor or city council shall be subject to punishment as provided in section 1-18.
Sec. 2-56. - Order of business.
The order of business shall be as determined from time to time by the city council.
(Comp. Ords. 1970, § 2-103)
Sec. 2-57. - General rules of order.
Except as otherwise provided in the city Charter or this Code, the rules of order shall follow standard parliamentary procedure in the transaction of business by and before the mayor and council at its meetings in all cases to which they are applicable.
(Comp. Ords. 1970, § 2-104)
Sec. 2-58. - Disturbing meetings.
It shall be unlawful to engage in disorderly or contemptuous behavior which disturbs any meeting of the mayor and council.
(Comp. Ords. 1970, § 2-105)
Sec. 2-59. - General procedures.
The introduction, enactment and recording of city legislation shall be accomplished under the provisions of the city Charter.
(Comp. Ords. 1970, § 2-201)
Secs. 2-60—2-76. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - ORDINANCES

Sec. 2-77. - Effective date.
Except as otherwise provided by any ordinance or state law:
(1)
All ordinances or resolutions not approved by the mayor shall be effective three days after passage thereof.
(2)
If the mayor files his reasons for not approving the ordinance or resolution, it shall become effective when a majority of the council again votes in favor of it.
(Comp. Ords. 1970, § 2-202)
Sec. 2-78. - Official copy.
A true copy of an ordinance which has been duly enacted by the mayor and council, signed by the mayor, and attested to by the city clerk shall be known as an official copy of any ordinance of the city.
(Comp. Ords. 1970, § 2-203)
Sec. 2-79. - Ordinances appropriating money.
No appropriation ordinance or ordinance to alter or repeal an appropriation ordinance shall be enacted at any meeting other than a regular meeting or at a meeting called and announced at a regular meeting except by a unanimous vote of the full membership of the council.
(Comp. Ords. 1970, § 2-204)
Sec. 2-80. - Procedure for adoption of ordinances and retention of council records.
(a)
Time for presenting; rules for consideration. An ordinance may be introduced by any councilmember and read at a regular or special meeting of the mayor and council. Ordinances shall be considered and either adopted or rejected by the mayor and council in accordance with the rules it shall establish upon introduction of any ordinance.
(b)
Emergency ordinances. The mayor and city council may adopt emergency ordinances as provided and limited by the city Charter.
(c)
Distribution of copies to council; copies for public inspection. The clerk shall, as soon as possible, distribute a copy of each ordinance to the mayor and each councilmember and retain a reasonable number of copies in his office for inspection and copying by members of the public.
(d)
Distribution of copies to codifier. Upon passage, the clerk shall forward certified copies of all ordinances to Municipal Code Corporation or any other person responsible for the codification of the city's ordinances, so that this Code can be properly revised and updated.
(e)
Numbering of ordinances and resolutions. After adoption of ordinances, the city clerk shall number them consecutively, in the order of their final adoption, and record them in a permanent record book used solely for this purpose. The clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of numbers and a separate record book.
(f)
Filing and retention of original documents. The city clerk shall file and preserve the original copies of all ordinances, resolutions, and any written motions.
Secs. 2-81—2-103. - Reserved.
