ARTICLE III. - CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— General authority of municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-34-1 et seq., 36-35-1 et seq.; liability of municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-1 et seq.; limitations on home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; authority to provide for, regulate, etc., officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2; liability of municipality for acts of officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-3; personal liability of municipal officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-4; local government officers and employees not subject to liability for torts involving use of government vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 36-92-3; fixing of salaries of municipal employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4; training of members of municipal governing authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-45-04; local referenda for abolishing local offices or shortening or lengthening term, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-11; authority to provide compensation and employee benefits to municipal officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-104. - Adoption of personnel manual.
The city has compiled and maintains the city personnel policies and procedures manual, which is adopted, as amended from time to time, as though fully set forth in this article.
Sec. 2-105. - Appointment and compensation.
All officers and employees who are deemed necessary by the mayor and council or their designee and are not otherwise provided for by law or ordinance shall be appointed as provided by the city Charter for such term and at such compensation as shall be provided thereby. Two members of an immediate family may not be appointed to positions of employment with the city. For the purposes of this article, the term "immediate family" shall include a husband, wife, son, daughter, father, mother, brother, sister, grandfather, grandmother, or such relationships in-law. This policy applies to promotions, demotions, transfers, reinstatements and new employees, but shall not affect any employee who may be in violation as of the effective date of these policies. No employee will be penalized as a result of a departmental reorganization which places him in violation of this policy.
(Comp. Ords. 1970, § 3-201)
Sec. 2-106. - Bonds.
Except where otherwise provided by law or ordinance, the mayor and council may require any officer or employee, before entering upon his duties, to post bond in an amount specified by the mayor and council. All bond premiums shall be paid from city funds. However, when one person holds two positions, only one bond shall be required.
(Comp. Ords. 1970, § 3-202)
Secs. 2-107—2-125. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MAYOR

Sec. 2-126. - Duties.
(a)
In the absence of a duly appointed and acting city administrator as provided in the city Charter, the mayor shall preside over all meetings of the city council. The mayor shall preserve order and decorum at such meetings, ensure that all officials and officers of the city faithfully perform all duties required of them, ensure that all the ordinances and laws of the city are properly carried out and executed, and ensure that all revenues are promptly collected and accounted for and proper records are kept of all financial transactions of said officers and of the city. The mayor shall exercise general supervision and jurisdiction over the affairs of the city and have authority to call the council in special session as often as he deems necessary for the proper conduct of the affairs of the city government.
(b)
If a city administrator is duly appointed and acting as provided in the city Charter, the mayor shall have such powers and duties as are provided by the city council to the extent permitted or required by state law.
Sec. 2-127. - Mayor pro tem.
Except where otherwise provided by law, the mayor pro tem shall perform the duties and functions of the mayor provided for in this Code during the absence or disability of the mayor. In the event the mayor and mayor pro tem shall fail or be unable to act, any person specifically designated by the mayor and council may act in their stead.
(Comp. Ords. 1970, § 3-104)
Sec. 2-128. - Contracts; deeds; bonds.
The mayor shall sign and execute all contracts authorized by the mayor and council. The mayor shall also be authorized to sign the deeds and bonds of the city.
(Comp. Ords. 1970, § 3-102)
Secs. 2-129—2-154. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CITY ADMINISTRATOR

Sec. 2-155. - City administrator; acting city administrator; removal.
(a)
The city administrator shall be selected and appointed by the mayor and council. He shall be responsible to the mayor and council for the administration of all city affairs placed in his charge by and under the Charter. In the event the office of city administrator is vacant, the mayor shall exercise all powers conferred on the office by this Code, the city Charter, and general law.
(b)
The mayor and council shall appoint the city administrator for an indefinite term and shall fix his compensation. The city administrator shall be appointed solely on the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications, and the term and salary may be fixed by the mayor and council without the passage of an ordinance. Before taking office, the city administrator shall furnish a fidelity bond in the amount of $100,000.00, conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties, with a corporation licensed to do business in the state as a surety. Such bond shall be filed with the city clerk after being approved by the mayor and council.
(c)
The city administrator shall have the following powers and duties:
(1)
a.
The city administrator shall appoint and, when he deems it necessary for the good of the city, supervise, suspend, or remove all city employees and administrative officers so appointed, except as otherwise provided by law or personnel ordinances adopted pursuant to the Charter except to the extent otherwise provided in this subsection.
b.
The mayor and council shall have the sole power and authority to appoint, suspend, or remove the city attorney, city engineer, judge of the city police court, city clerk, fire chief, building inspector, ordinance enforcement officer, and all members of boards, commissions, or authorities which the mayor and council have created or shall create or of which the city is or shall be a member.
c.
The city administrator shall not appoint, suspend, or remove any city government department head without the prior approval of the mayor and council. For the purpose of this section, a department head shall include, but not be limited to, the city clerk, chief of police, city general superintendent, building inspector, ordinance enforcement officer, and fire chief.
d.
Each department head shall also have authority to supervise, suspend or remove employees in his department.
e.
Any city employee or administrative officer suspended or removed under this section may, within five working days of said suspension or removal, file a written request with the city clerk requesting that the mayor and council review such action. After such written request is filed, the mayor and council may veto any such suspension or removal within 30 days thereof.
(2)
The city administrator shall direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices, and agencies of the city, except as otherwise provided by the Charter or by state law.
(3)
The city administrator shall attend all council meetings and shall have the right to take part in discussion but may not vote.
(4)
The city administrator shall see that all laws, provisions of the Charter, and acts of the mayor and council subject to enforcement by him or by officers subject to his direction and supervision are faithfully executed.
(5)
The city administrator shall prepare and submit the annual operating budget and capital budget to the mayor and council. With prior approval of the mayor and council, he shall be authorized to make expenditures and purchases in accordance with the operating budget.
(6)
The city administrator shall submit to the mayor and council and make available to the public a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the city as of the end of each fiscal year.
(7)
The city administrator shall make such reports as the mayor and council may require concerning the operations of city departments, offices, and agencies subject to his direction and supervision.
(8)
The city administrator shall keep the mayor and council fully advised as to the financial condition and future needs of the city and shall make such recommendations to the mayor and council concerning the affairs of the city as he deems desirable and as the mayor and council may require.
(9)
The city administrator shall perform such other duties as are specified in the Charter or may be required by the mayor and council.
(10)
The city administrator shall propose the salaries and compensation of all employees of the city, except the city attorney, city engineer, judge of the city police court, city clerk, fire chief, building inspector, ordinance enforcement officer, and all members of boards, commissions, or authorities, provided that no proposed raise in salary or compensation of such employee shall become effective until it is approved by the mayor and council at a regular meeting of the mayor and council.
(d)
During the temporary absence or disability of the city administrator, the mayor and council may revoke such designation of the city administrator at any time and appoint another officer of the city to serve until the city administrator shall return or his disability ceases. The mayor and council shall have the power to appoint the mayor to serve as acting city administrator during the temporary absence or disability of the city administrator or during such time as the office of such city administrator shall remain vacant. Should the council so appoint the mayor as acting city administrator and the mayor so serve, the mayor shall not be entitled to receive the salary of the city administrator. For the purpose of this section, the term "disability of the city administrator" shall include being suspended from his duties by the mayor and council. The acting city administrator shall cease exercising the powers and duties of the city administrator upon the appointment of a city administrator or upon the revocation of said acting city administrator's appointment by the council. In those instances in which the mayor has been appointed acting city administrator, the mayor shall cease exercising the powers and duties of the city administrator upon the appointment of a city administrator or upon the revocation of said mayor's appointment as acting city administrators by the council. The acting city administrator shall take the same oath as the city administrator but need not furnish a fidelity bond.
(e)
The mayor and council may remove the city administrator from office in accordance with the following procedures:
(1)
The mayor and council shall adopt, by affirmative vote of a majority of all its members, a preliminary resolution which must state the reasons for removal and may suspend the city administrator from duty for a period not to exceed 45 days. A copy of the resolution shall be delivered promptly to the city administrator.
(2)
Within five days after a copy of the resolution is delivered to the city administrator, the city administrator may file with the mayor and council a written request for a public hearing. This hearing shall be held within 30 days after the request is filed. The city administrator may file with the mayor and council a written reply not later than five days before the hearing.
(3)
If the city administrator has not requested a public hearing within the time specified in subsection (e)(2) of this section, the mayor and council may adopt a final resolution for removal, which may be made effective immediately, by an affirmative vote of a majority of all its members. If the city administrator has requested a public hearing, the mayor and council may adopt a final resolution for removal, which may be made effective immediately, by an affirmative vote of a majority of all members at any time after the public hearing.
(4)
The city administrator shall continue to receive his salary and benefits until the effective date of a final resolution of removal.
(5)
The city administrator may be removed from office for cause or without cause. If removed without cause, he shall be entitled to receive his regular salary and benefits for a period of 30 days from the effective date of the final resolution of removal.
Secs. 2-156—2-178. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - CITY CLERK[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Training for municipal clerks, O.C.G.A. § 36-45-20.

Sec. 2-179. - Appointment.
The city council shall appoint a city clerk who shall not be a councilmember. The city clerk or his designee shall be custodian of the official city seal and shall maintain city council records required by this Code, the city Charter, or state law.
Sec. 2-180. - General duties of clerk.
In addition to such duties as provided in the city Charter and by general law, it shall be the duty of the city clerk or his designee to do the following:
(1)
Attend meetings of the mayor and council and keep the official minutes of its proceedings, including the names of members and other parties present and absent and the vote of each councilmember on each resolution, ordinance, motion, or other official action considered;
(2)
Prepare and certify copies of official records when requested, for which fees may be prescribed by ordinance;
(3)
Serve as chief financial officer of the city and work in coordination with the mayor in budget preparation and review and in approving and reviewing purchase requests from department heads;
(4)
Maintain a book or record of registration of franchises granted by the city; and
(5)
Perform such other duties as may be required by the mayor and council.
Secs. 2-181—2-198. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - CITY ATTORNEY

Sec. 2-199. - Appointment; qualifications; oath; compensation.
(a)
The city attorney shall be appointed by the mayor and city council and shall serve until a successor is appointed and has qualified. No person shall be so appointed unless he is a member in good standing of the state bar and has been actively engaged in the practice of law for at least three years preceding his appointment. Before entering upon the duties of his office, the city attorney shall take the oath prescribed by the city council for city officers. The city attorney shall receive compensation in the amount established from time to time by the city council.
(b)
In addition to the city attorney, the mayor and city council shall annually appoint a city solicitor who shall have such duties as are assigned by the council.
Sec. 2-200. - Duties.
The city attorney shall have such duties as are provided in the city Charter and prescribed from time to time by the city council, other than those assigned to the city solicitor. The duties assigned to the city attorney may be delegated by the city attorney unless otherwise specifically provided by the city council.
Secs. 2-201—2-223. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER

Sec. 2-224. - Appointment.
The city code enforcement officer shall be appointed by the mayor and city council and shall serve until a successor is appointed and has qualified.
Sec. 2-225. - Recognition and certification.
The city code enforcement officer shall do all things necessary in order to be recognized as a law enforcement officer of the state and certified within the standards of the state Peace Officer Standards and Training Act (POST Act), as provided in O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq. In the event the city code enforcement officer is not POST-certified, then he shall have 12 months from his hiring date in which to become POST-certified.
(Ord. of 8-8-2005, § I)
Sec. 2-226. - Power of arrest.
The city code enforcement officer shall have the power of arrest in the enforcement of all ordinances of the city, state codes, and the laws of the state.
(Ord. of 8-8-2005, § II)
Sec. 2-227. - Duties and responsibilities.
The primary duties and responsibilities of the city code enforcement officer shall be as follows:
(1)
To enforce all ordinances enacted by the mayor and city council, state codes, and the laws of the state;
(2)
To issue warnings, notices of ordinance violation, and citations for court appearances for the violation of ordinances and the laws of the state;
(3)
To investigate and collect evidence of these ordinances and the laws of the state violations;
(4)
To respond to complaints of alleged violations of ordinances and laws of the state;
(5)
To appear and testify in court;
(6)
To do any follow-up work that may be necessary;
(7)
To ensure proper collection of fines;
(8)
To coordinate enforcement efforts with the building inspection department, the public works department, the city police department, and any other department or division of the city as may be deemed necessary.
(Ord. of 8-8-2005, § III)
Sec. 2-228. - Placement of position.
The position of code enforcement officer shall be under the supervision of the chief of police.
Sec. 2-229. - Authority to issue summonses or citations.
In addition to all duties and responsibilities set forth in this division, where any provisions of this Code that authorize the city police department to issue a summons or citations, the code enforcement officer shall also specifically be authorized to issue said summons or citations.
(Ord. of 8-8-2005, § IV)
Secs. 2-230—2-251. - Reserved.
