Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Official Code of Cobb County, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1977, § 3-1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
The following definitions and rules of construction shall apply to all ordinances of the board of commissioners unless the context requires otherwise:
Generally. The ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art, or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, when they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade, or with reference to such subject matter. In all interpretations the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the board of commissioners, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil, and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
Liberal construction; minimum requirements; overlapping provisions. All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the board of commissioners may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the other provisions of this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Adequate. The word "adequate" means equal to what is required, suitable to the case or occasion, fully sufficient, proportionate or satisfactory.
Aforesaid. The word "aforesaid" usually means next before.
All. The word "all" means everyone, or the whole number of particulars.
Also. The word "also" means "in like manner," "likewise," "in addition," "besides," "as well," "further," "too."
As soon as possible. The term "as soon as possible" means within a reasonable time, having due regard to all the circumstances.
At. The term "at" may mean "in," "near," "within," or "about." Its primary idea is nearness, and it is less definite than "in" or "on."
Board of commissioners, board. The term "board" or "board of commissioners" means the board of commissioners of Cobb County, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means the Official Code of Cobb County, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. When a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
County. The word "county" means Cobb County, Georgia. When appropriate, "county" means a designated department, officer or employee thereof.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring a county officer or county employee to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize the officer or employee to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act.
Following. The word "following" means next after.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(8).
Gender. The masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
Keeper, proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
May. The word "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
Month. The word "month" means a calendar month.
Must. The word "must" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Number. The singular and plural number include the other, unless expressly excluded.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(6).
Oath. An "oath" includes an affirmation.
O.C.G.A. The term "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Officials, employees, boards, commissions, etc. Reference to officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies of the county by title only refer to the officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies of the county.
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
Person. The word "person" includes any association, club, society, firm, corporation, partnership and body politic and corporate as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as defined in this section.
Preceding. The word "preceding" means next before.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" includes any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or congregate.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Shall. The word "shall" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature, subscription. A "signature" or "subscription" includes the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. The word "state" means the State of Georgia.
Street, road. The word "street" or "road" includes any street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane, viaduct and any other public highway in the county, including, but not limited to, the paved or improved surfaces thereof.
Tenant, occupant. The word "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies, the whole or a part of a building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Until a certain day. The term "until a certain day" includes all of such day.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(21).
Week. The word "week" means seven days.
Whereas. The term "whereas" means "considering that."
Will. The word "will" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Writing. The term "writing" includes printing and all numerals.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1977, §§ 3-1-2, 3-1-4)
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes; editor's notes; references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of such sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Cross references, state enabling legislation references, state law references and editor's notes which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles or sections are to the chapters, articles and sections of this Code unless otherwise specified.
(Code 1977, § 3-1-3)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Territorial applicability.
(a)
Except as specifically provided otherwise, this Code only applies in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(b)
Where the county provides utility or other service to an incorporated area, the ordinances relating to such service apply in that incorporated area.
(c)
The provisions of article II of chapter 62 shall apply in the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
(Amd. of 3-22-16)
State Law reference— Authority for countywide applicability of board of health rules and regulations, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-6; enforcement under local ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-16.
Sec. 1-5. - Effective date of ordinances and resolutions.
Except as otherwise provided by law, ordinances and resolutions which do not provide for their taking effect at a different time take effect immediately upon adoption.
(Code 1977, § 3-1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Effect of repeal of ordinance.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance does not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance does not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed under the repealed ordinance.
(Code 1977, § 3-1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - Amendments; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances adopted subsequent to the adoption of this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from repealed pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted anew by the board of commissioners. All ordinances shall take effect immediately upon adoption unless otherwise provided.
(b)
All ordinances may be amended or repealed by a resolution or ordinance duly adopted after a minimum of two public hearings held at regular meetings of the county board of commissioners. A notice listing the chapters proposed for amendment or repeal shall be published in the official county organ once a week for three weeks within a period of 60 days immediately preceding its final adoption. Such notice shall state that a copy of the proposed amendment or repeal is on file in the office of the county clerk and the superior court clerk of the county for the purpose of examination and inspection by the public. The county clerk and/or superior court clerk shall furnish anyone, upon written request, a copy of the proposed amendment or repeal.
(c)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "Section _____ of the Official Code of Cobb County, Georgia, is amended to read as follows: …." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
If a new section not then existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Official Code of Cobb County, Georgia, is amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) numbered _____, to read as follows:…." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(e)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Ord. of 7-27-04; Amd. of 7-26-16)
Sec. 1-8. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
Supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the board of commissioners. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the person authorized to prepare the supplement may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the person may:
(1)
Organize the material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of sections inserted into the Code.
(d)
In no case shall the person authorized to prepare a supplement to this Code make any change in the meaning or effect of material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-9. - Severability.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the board of commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the board of commissioners without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1977, § 3-1-7)
Sec. 1-10. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a county officer or county employee to perform an official duty unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided, a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine and sentence of imprisonment and/or probation not to exceed the maximum punishment as set out by Georgia law under O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60.
(d)
The imposition of a fine or penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a fine or penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
(Code 1977, § 3-1-10; Amd. of 2-25-14)
State enabling legislation references—Injunctive relief authorized, § 2-38(15); penalty for ordinance violations, § 2-39.
Sec. 1-11. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing legislation.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as those of ordinances and resolutions existing as of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-12. - Matters not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the county, or any evidence of the county's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the county.
(3)
Any right or franchise granted by the county to any person.
(4)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, defining, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the county.
(5)
Any appropriation or ordinance authorizing appropriations or gifts.
(6)
Any legislation providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor.
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting a plat or subdivision.
(8)
Any ordinance rezoning property.
(9)
Any ordinance establishing salaries or compensation of county officers or employees not in this Code.
(10)
Any ordinance approving the budget.
(11)
Any ordinance, motion or order creating, establishing, prescribing and abolishing housing authorities and urban renewal projects, and in particular, but not exclusively, the resolution dated November 23, 1971.
(12)
Any ordinance adopted for purposes that have been consummated.
(13)
Any ordinance that is temporary, although general in nature.
(14)
Any ordinance that is special, although permanent in nature.
(15)
Any ordinance levying or otherwise relating to taxes.
(16)
Any ordinance amending any act enacted by the general assembly of the state.
(Code 1977, § 3-16-1)
Sec. 1-13. - Code does not affect prior offenses, penalties, rights.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
