ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Purpose.
This chapter has been enacted in accordance with a plan designed for the purposes, among others, of promoting the health and general welfare of the community:
(1)
To establish reasonable standards for the regulation and control of the licensing and sale of alcoholic beverages;
(2)
To protect and preserve schools;
(3)
To give effect to existing land use;
(4)
To protect those of minor age in the community;
(5)
To preserve certain residential areas, with reasonable considerations, among others, to the character of the areas and their peculiar suitability for particular uses, the congestion in the roads and streets, and with a general view of promoting desirable living conditions and sustaining stability of neighborhood and property values; and
(6)
To prevent undesirable persons from controlling the malt beverage industry.
(Code 2011, § 4-1; Ord. No. 80-1, § 1-001, 2-14-1980)
Sec. 4-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. Unless otherwise defined herein, the definitions contained within O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq., shall be applicable to this chapter.
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages, wine, or fortified wine.
Brown-bagging means the bringing, taking, or carrying of any alcoholic beverage into a business licensed to operate within the city; provided that bringing an alcoholic beverage into a house, apartment, room, or other units designed for private residential occupancy shall not fall within this definition.
Interest in license shall be deemed to exist if the person involved is the outright owner of the license; a co-owner of the license; a partner in a partnership which owns all or any part of a license; a stockholder of a corporation organized for pecuniary gain which owns all or any part of a license; an owner, lessor, sub-lessor, or stockholder in any corporation organized for pecuniary gain owning or leasing any real estate which is occupied by a restaurant which sells malt beverages, or shares in any of the income or corpus of any trust fund or estate having an interest in one of the aforesaid establishments which sells malt beverages.
Live means any activity or entertainment which is carried on by an actual living person in the physical presence of the patrons.
Live entertainment means entertainment for the benefit of patrons which is carried on in the actual physical presence of such patrons, including, but not limited to, dancing.
Mainstream performance house means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar establishment which regularly features live performances such as plays or concerts which are not distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the depiction, description or display or the featuring of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities, and where such depiction, if any, is only incidental to the primary purpose of any performance.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume, and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term "malt beverage" does not include sake, also known as Japanese rice wine.
Passenger vehicle means a vehicle designed to carry ten or more passengers and used to carry passengers for profit or hire.
Private residence means a house or dwelling wherein not less than one nor more than two families reside, and shall not include an apartment house having facilities for housing more than two families, nor a boardinghouse or roominghouse where there are five or more boarders or roomers. Any building occupied as a residence located within an area zoned for business shall not be construed as a private residence. In addition, any residence outside the city limits shall not be considered a private residence for the purposes of this chapter.
Proper identification means any document issued by a governmental agency containing a description of the person, such person's photograph, or both, and giving such person's date of birth, and includes, without being limited to, a passport, military identification card, driver's license, or current identification card authorized under O.C.G.A. § 40-5-100 et seq. The term "proper identification" shall not include a birth certificate.
Restaurant means any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are actually and regularly served, the place being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and seating capacity of at least 40 people, having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook, and serve suitable food for its guests. At least one meal per day shall be served at least six days per week, with the exception of holidays, vacations, and periods of re-decorating, and the serving of these meals shall be the principal business conducted. The serving of prepared food must equal not less than 50 percent of any such restaurant's monthly gross sales as certified to by the proprietor and his CPA. This certificate shall be given quarterly and shall state his total gross sales of any such establishment, gross sales of prepared food, and gross sales of malt beverages consumed on the premises.
School means only such state, county, city, church, or other schools that teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools of the state and shall not include private schools where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations, and other special subjects are taught.
Specified anatomical area. See definition in section 6-99.
Specified sexual activities. See definition in section 6-99.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 24 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "wine" includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term "wine" does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
(Code 2011, § 4-2; Ord. No. 80-1, § 1-002, 2-14-1980; Ord. No. 80-2, § 80-001, 2-19-1980; Ord. of 4-2-1991)
State Law reference— Similar definitions, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
Sec. 4-3. - Zoning requirements for licensed locations.
No license shall be issued within the areas described in this chapter, unless the location has been zoned C-1 or C-2 under the zoning provisions of chapter 56.
(Code 2011, § 4-3; Ord. No. 80-1, § 1-003, 2-14-1980; Ord. No. 80-2, § 80-002, 2-19-1980)
Sec. 4-4. - Proximity of premises to churches, schools, colleges, public libraries, nursing homes or private residences.
(a)
No new license shall be issued for the sale of any beer, wine, or malt beverages for a location nor shall any existing license be transferred to a new location which will be in or within 300 feet of a church building, school building, school grounds or college campus.
(b)
For the purpose of this section, distance shall be measured by the most direct route of travel on the ground.
(c)
Each application for a license shall show the location of the proposed building and the distance to the nearest church, nursing home, public library, school grounds, and private residence.
(d)
The school grounds and college campuses referred to in this section shall apply only to state, county, city or church school grounds and college campuses and to such other schools and colleges as teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools and colleges of the state.
(e)
The provisions of this section shall not apply at any location for which a license has been issued prior to the adoption of this section, nor to the renewal of such license.
(Code 2011, § 4-4; Ord. No. 80-1, § 1-004, 2-14-1980; Ord. No. 80-2, § 80-003, 2-19-1980)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21.
Sec. 4-5. - Violations; penalties.
(a)
Any person who acquires a license or a renewal thereof in violation of this chapter by any misrepresentation or fraudulent statement or who, after acquiring a license, is found to have violated any of the provisions of this chapter, shall be subject to penalties as provided in section 1-15.
(b)
Any untrue or misleading information contained in, or material omission left out of an original, renewal, or transfer application for a license shall be cause for the denial thereof and, if any license has been granted under these circumstances, these shall be cause for revocation.
(c)
Revocation of a license for violation of this chapter shall be for a minimum of 12 months and a maximum of 24 months, the period to be determined at the discretion of the recorder.
(d)
A total of three separate and unrelated violations shall constitute grounds for permanent revocation.
(e)
A violation of this chapter by an employee or agent of the licensee shall be deemed a violation of the licensee.
(Code 2011, § 4-5; Ord. No. 80-1, § 1-008, 2-14-1980)
Secs. 4-6—4-28. - Reserved.
