Chapter 38 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The county has executed an agreement to provide legal services to indigent criminal defendants in the superior, state and juvenile courts of the county. Official copies of the agreement are on file in the office of the county clerk.
State Law reference— Violation of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.; Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 38-1. - Vandalizing road signs.
(a)
Violation. Any person vandalizing any road signs within the unincorporated limits of the county shall be in violation of this section.
(b)
Penalties. Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of an offense against the county and, upon conviction in the magistrate court, shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 2002, § 38-1; Ord. of 8-18-1997, §§ 1, 2)
State Law reference— Damaging public property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.
Secs. 38-2—38-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TURKEY SHOOTS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Public drunkenness, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-41; discharge of firearm near public highway or street, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-103; discharge of firearm on property of another, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-104; Georgia Firearms and Weapons Act, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-120 et seq.; wild animals, O.C.G.A. § 27-5-4 et seq.; control of mass gatherings, O.C.G.A. § 31-27-1 et seq.; removal of improperly parked cars or trespassing personal property, O.C.G.A. § 44-1-13.

Sec. 38-21. - Legalization.
In pursuance of the authority conferred by O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20 and for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, property, and general welfare of the present and future citizens of the county, the provisions of this article are enacted into law.
(Code 2002, § 38-31)
Sec. 38-22. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building official means the duly appointed and qualified building official of Coffee County, Georgia.
Contestant means a person who competes in a turkey shoot.
District means one of the five geographical divisions of the county, the inhabitants of which are represented on the board of commissioners of Coffee County, Georgia, by a single commissioner.
Organizer means a person who desires to organize, conduct and supervise a turkey shoot and who, upon being granted a permit, does, in fact, conduct and supervise such turkey shoot.
Permit means a document issued by the board of commissioners of Coffee County, Georgia, which authorizes an organizer to conduct a turkey shoot.
Shotgun means a smoothbore shoulder weapon designed to fire shells containing numerous pellets.
Site means the location at which a turkey shoot is conducted.
Turkey shoot means an event at which contestants compete for prizes which are awarded according to their accuracy in hitting a paper or similarly composed target with projectiles fired from shotguns or similar devices.
(Code 2002, § 38-33)
Sec. 38-23. - Procedure.
Any person who desires to organize a turkey shoot shall first consult with the building official. The building official shall personally examine the site at which the organizer proposes to conduct such turkey shoot and shall make a determination as to whether such turkey shoot, as proposed by the organizer, complies in all respects with this article. If the building official determines that the proposed turkey shoot does so comply with this article and that the holding of a turkey shoot at the site proposed by the organizer will not pose a significant threat to the safety of citizens living on adjoining properties and will not significantly annoy those citizens or disrupt their usual activities, he may recommend to the board that the organizer be granted a permit to conduct such turkey shoot. Both the building official and the organizer of the proposed turkey shoot shall appear at a regularly scheduled meeting of the board, at which time the building official shall make a recommendation either for or against the granting of a permit for such turkey shoot. The board shall then vote on the question of whether to issue to the organizer a permit to conduct such turkey shoot. If a majority of the members of the board vote in favor of allowing such turkey shoot, a permit shall be issued to the organizer by the clerk of the board.
(Code 2002, § 38-34)
Sec. 38-24. - Regulations.
(a)
Compliance required. All turkey shoots conducted in the county shall comply with the regulations of this section.
(b)
Alcoholic beverages. No organizer of any turkey shoot conducted pursuant to this article shall furnish to any participant or permit any participant to consume on or near the site where such turkey shoot is conducted any alcoholic beverages of any kind.
(c)
Barricades. Each and every target used in any turkey shoot conducted pursuant to this article shall be backed by some material (e.g., wood, baled hay) of sufficient size and density to ensure that no pellet fired at that target from any shotgun during that turkey shoot will travel beyond the plane in which that target is situated for a distance of more than one foot.
(d)
Conduct. No organizer of any turkey shoot shall permit any of the participants in or observers of such turkey shoot to engage in any loud or boisterous conduct calculated or likely to disrupt either the turkey shoot or the peace and tranquility of the surrounding environment.
(e)
Firearms. No organizer of any turkey shoot conducted pursuant to this article shall permit any participant to compete in such turkey shoot by the use of any firearm other than a shotgun.
(f)
Hours. No turkey shoot conducted pursuant to this article shall commence prior to 6:00 p.m., and no turkey shoot conducted pursuant to this article shall extend beyond 11:00 p.m. of any given day.
(g)
Permits. No person shall conduct any turkey shoot at any location within the unincorporated areas of the county unless he shall have executed an agreement which shall be in the form and contain the terms prescribed by the board and shall be countersigned by the clerk of the board. Such agreement shall serve as the organizer's permit to conduct such turkey shoot. No such permit shall permit the holding of such turkey shoot on any Sunday or any Christmas Day. Each organizer of each turkey shoot shall pay to the board a fee for each such permit as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges and maintained in the office of the county clerk.
(Code 2002, § 38-35)
Sec. 38-25. - Enforcement and penalties.
(a)
Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the sheriff of the county to enforce the provisions of this article other than those relating to the issuance of permits.
(b)
Penalties. Any person who knowingly violates any of the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 2002, § 38-36)
Secs. 38-26—38-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - NUISANCES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2014-03, §§ 1—6, adopted May 19, 2014, added provisions that were not specifically amendatory. At the editor's discretion, said provisions were included as §§ 38-51—38-56.

Sec. 38-51. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building means any structure that encloses a space used for sheltering any occupancy.
Debris, for the purpose of this article, shall include residue from the burning of wood, coal, or other combustible material, as well as paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, rubber, leather, fallen, broken or destroyed trees or tree limbs or other material or objects not a part of the land and constituting a heath or safety hazard.
Inoperable motor vehicle means any motor vehicle as defined herein which is incapable of being moved under its own power without additional work or repairs being completed to the motor vehicle, or without any additional components being added to or placed upon said motor vehicle.
Junked motor vehicle is any motor vehicle, as defined in this article, which does not have lawfully affixed thereto both an unexpired license plate and a current license decal, or the condition of such motor vehicle is in a state of disrepair, wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative, abandoned or discarded. The absence of a current car tag or decal from any vehicle shall be presumptive evidence that such vehicle is a junked motor vehicle.
Lot, for the purposes of this article, shall mean one or any one or more of several contiguous parcels of land making up a block, measured and set apart for use or occupancy.
Motor vehicle is any vehicle which is or is intended to be self-propelled and designed to travel on the ground and shall include, but shall not be limited to, automobiles, buses, motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf carts, four-wheelers, campers and trailers, as well as any part or parts thereof.
Person shall mean any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or organization of any kind.
Private property shall mean any real property within the county which is privately owned and which is not public property as defined in this section.
Public property shall mean any street or highway which shall include the entire width between the boundary lines of every publicly-maintained way and dedicated to the purposes of vehicular traffic, and shall also mean any other publicly-owned property or facility.
(Ord. No. 2014-03, § 1, 5-19-2014)
Sec. 38-52. - Specific nuisances.
Nuisance means anything within the county or its police jurisdiction that works hurt, inconvenience or damage to others or is manifestly injurious to the public health or safety or tends to corrupt the manners or morals of the people. The various nuisances described and enumerated in this section shall not be deemed to be exclusive, but shall be in addition to all other nuisances described and prohibited in this Code.
The following are hereby declared to be nuisances:
(1)
Vacant lots: Any vacant lot whereon debris is permitted to accumulate and remain in such a manner as to create a fire hazard or other hazard to the public health, safety and welfare.
(2)
Nonconforming structures, machines, etc.: Any building, business, thing, machine or machinery, erected, repaired, conducted, maintained, operated or used within this county contrary to or in violation of county ordinance.
(3)
Depositing trash, garbage, refuse, furniture, or other household goods, etc., on private or public property: The depositing and leaving on private or public property of trash, garbage, refuse, furniture, household goods, scrap building materials, paper, cardboard containers, brick, cement rubbish, tree residue, cans, containers, or any other rubbish and trash which is a menace to public health and safety in the county.
(4)
Accumulation of junk: The retention, storage or accumulation of any automobile, motor vehicle, mechanized equipment, machinery, appliance, scrap metal, or other scrap material on property for a period of ten days or longer in a condition that prevents its use for the purpose for which it was originally manufactured so as to affect the public health, safety and welfare of reasonable persons residing in the neighborhood thereof.
(Ord. No. 2014-03, § 2, 5-19-2014)
Sec. 38-53. - Inoperable or junked motor vehicles; prohibition; exception.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot of land or premises in the county, or the owner of any lot of land or premises in the county, or any agent or representative of such owner or occupant, to permit or maintain on such lot any nuisance as enumerated herein, the accumulation of debris or the harborage of inoperable motor vehicles, as defined in this article, which distracts from the community aesthetics, and endangers the public health, safety or welfare.
(b)
This article defines and establishes procedures for abating inoperable or junked motor vehicles.
(1)
No person shall park, store, leave or permit the parking, storing or leaving of any junked motor vehicle of any kind upon any private property within any residential zoning district for a period of time in excess of 90 days. The presence of a junked motor vehicle or parts thereof on private property is hereby declared a public nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(2)
Those vehicles which are exempted from the provisions of this article are as follows:
a.
Any motor vehicles or parts thereof which are located on the premises of licensed automobile dealers;
b.
Any motor vehicles or parts thereof which are located on the premises of any licensed junkyard operated in compliance with state and local laws relating to licensing, regulating and zoning of such junkyards;
c.
Any motor vehicle enclosed within a building on private property which is not a hazard to public health;
d.
Any motor vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or designed for operation on drag strips or raceways; and
e.
Any motor vehicles in the process of being restored to an operable condition provided they are:
1.
Limited to no more than two in number;
2.
Located in the rear yard and behind the house of the owner of such vehicles; and
3.
Not visible from any road.
(Ord. No. 2014-03, § 3, 5-19-2014)
Sec. 38-54. - Notice of violation.
(a)
When any objectionable condition as defined in sections 38-52 or 38-53 is being allowed to exist or is otherwise maintained on any lot of land or premises in the county, the director of code enforcement, as applicable, or his designee (the "official"), shall notify in writing the occupant of such lot, or the owner thereof or their agents or representatives, that the conditions existing upon the property constitute a nuisance, and setting forth the actions to be taken to eliminate the objectionable conditions within a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days. If the violation is not remedied within the allotted 30 day time period, then the official shall notify in writing the occupant of such lot, or the owner thereof or their agents or representatives, that the conditions existing upon the property constitute a nuisance, and setting forth that legal action will be taken for failure to remedy.
Failure of the owner or occupant to eliminate the conditions constituting a nuisance within the allotted time period shall constitute an offense of this Code. An official may grant a written extension upon a showing of reasonable cause. Upon the expiration of the allotted time for elimination of the nuisance, including extension, if any, the official shall issue a citation and summons so charging the party notified and requiring such party to appear in the Magistrate court for a hearing at a given time, place and date, if said nuisance is not resolved.
(b)
Notices shall be in writing and delivered in person or by certified mail, return receipt requested, or first-class mail, to the occupant and/or owner or its agents or representatives. Refusal to accept certified mail shall be deemed prima facie evidence of notice. If the official, following due diligence, is unable to serve such notice, the official shall cause such notice to be published once a week for two consecutive weeks in the news publication of general distribution, prior to taking any steps to abate said nuisance and prior to the running of the 5-day period for abatement of the nuisance.
(Ord. No. 2014-03, § 4, 5-19-2014)
Sec. 38-55. - Citation, trial, order, failure to comply, etc.
(a)
When it becomes necessary to issue a citation and summons to an owner or occupant of lands subject to the provisions of this article, said citation shall be in a form setting forth, particularly, the nature and location of the nuisance and the identity of the person complained against. If the court determines that the conditions do in fact constitute a nuisance, the court shall issue an order specifying the time within which such nuisance must be abated. In addition, the court may impose a fine not to exceed $500.00 for the offense of failure to abate the nuisance, if the court determines that the owner or occupant unreasonably failed to abate the nuisance prior to the court hearing.
(b)
The failure of the owner or occupant to comply with the court's order to abate the nuisance within the specified time period shall constitute an offense separate and apart from that set forth in section 38-55(a) above, and shall subject the person to additional prosecution and penalties, including:
(1)
Fines not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation.
(2)
Imprisonment, not to exceed six months.
(c)
Upon the failure of the owner or occupant to comply with the court's order to abate the nuisance within the specified time period, the court may issue an order permitting abatement of the nuisance by the county. That order shall include, but not be limited to, the authority of the county and its officials and agents to enter the property, shall specifically state the authority and limitations of the county and its officials and agents to abate the nuisance, and shall release the county and its officials and agents from liability of any damage to the property during the court of, or as a result of, the nuisance abatement.
(Ord. No. 2014-03, § 5, 5-19-2014)
Sec. 38-56. - Lien.
In the event that the nuisance is abated by the county pursuant to the authority of the order of the court as set out in section 38-55(c) above, the county shall be authorized to assess the costs associated with said removal and charge all costs thereof to the owner or representative. Said costs shall be a lien against the property upon which the condition existed, ranking equally with the lien for county taxes. Provided, however, that this shall not preclude other remedies available to the official for abating said nuisance or the county's use of other legal means of collecting the cost therefore.
(Ord. No. 2014-03, § 6, 5-19-2014)
