ARTICLE IX. - DOUGLAS-COFFEE COUNTY INDUSTRIAL AUTHORITY[9]

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1959 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 273), p. 2801, as enacted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Any provisions regarding the notice to introduce legislation and the jurat have been omitted. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. The style used for headings and catchlines has been made uniform and consistent with those appearing in the Code. Additions made for clarity, such as consistent state statute citations and catchline modifications, are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Title.
This Act may be cited as the Douglas-Coffee County Industrial Authority.
Sec. 2. - Created.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the "Douglas-Coffee County Industrial Authority" which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and by that name, style and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The Authority shall consist of seven members, as follows: Three members shall be appointed by the city commissioners of the City of Douglas and three members shall be appointed by the county commissioners of Coffee County. The seventh (7th) member shall be appointed by joint action of the commissioners of both the city and county upon the recommendation of the Coffee County Chamber of Commerce. In the event that [there be] no such chamber of commerce, the seventh (7th) member shall be appointed by joint action of the commissioners of the city and of the county. The terms of office of the members appointed by the city commissioners shall be the same as and run currently with the terms of office of such commissioners. The terms of office of the members appointed by the county commissioners shall be the same as and run currently with the office of such commissioners. The seventh (7th) member shall be the same as and run currently with the president of the aforesaid chamber of commerce. In the event that there be no such president, the term of the office of the seventh (7th) member shall be prescribed by joint action of the city and county commissioners. In the event any vacancy occurs in the county group, the county commissioners shall fill by appointment, such vacancy for the unexpired term. In the event a vacancy occurs in the city group, the city commissioners shall fill by appointment such vacancy for the unexpired term. In the event a vacancy occurs in the aforesaid seventh (7th) member the commissioners of both the city and county shall fill by appointment such vacancy for the unexpired term. The city and county commissioners may, in their discretion, request the chamber of commerce to submit additional names before making the appointment or any subsequent appointment to the membership to the Authority. If no recommendation is made within ten days after such request, the appointment be made without any recommendation. The members of the Authority shall elect among themselves a president, a vice-president and a secretary-treasurer, except that by a majority vote of the entire membership, they may elect a person as secretary-treasurer who is not a member of the authority.
Sec. 3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(a)
The word "Authority" shall mean the 'Douglas-Coffee County Industrial Authority' created by this Act and by and under Article VII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition of lands, properties and improvements for development, expansion and promotion of industry, commerce, agriculture, natural resources and vocational training; the construction of buildings and plants for the purpose of selling, leasing or renting such structures to private persons, firms or corporations.
(c)
The term "cost of project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, easements, rights and franchises acquired, the cost of machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural and legal expenses, and plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project and placing the same in operation.
Sec. 4. - Contracts.
The County of Coffee and the City of Douglas are expressly authorized to enter into contracts with the Authority as a public corporation.
Sec. 5. - Quorum.
Any five members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the ordinary business of the Authority; however, any action with respect to any project of the Authority must be approved by not less than five affirmative votes.
Sec. 6. - Powers.
The Authority shall have powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same purpose.
(b)
To acquire, hold and dispose of personal property; including the stock of other corporations, for its corporate purposes.
(c)
To enter into contracts with the County of Coffee and the City of Douglas.
(d)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions, and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or liens or easements therein or franchise necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of same in any manner the Authority deems to its best advantage. If the Authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the title to which shall then be in the County of Coffee or the City of Douglas, the governing authorities of Coffee County and the City of Douglas are authorized in their discretion to convey title to such lands, including any improvements thereon, to the Authority.
(e)
To appoint and select officers, agents, and employees including engineers, architects, builders, and attorneys, and to fix their compensation.
(f)
To make contracts, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases and rentals and sale of projects, or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it erects or acquires. The County of Coffee and the City of Douglas are hereby expressly authorized and empowered to enter into agreements with the Authority for use by the Authority of funds collected by special tax levies by the county and city for development purposes.
(g)
To construct, erect, acquire, own repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, self-liquidating or otherwise, located on property owned or leased by the Authority, and to pay the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue bond of the Authority or from any grant from the County of Coffee or City of Douglas, or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms or corporations, all of which the Authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
(h)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds and such other instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing.
(i)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public or private corporations, performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia.
(j)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this Act.
(k)
To adopt, alter or repeal its own by-laws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the power granted it may be enjoyed, as the Authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
(l)
To issue revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project of the Authority, and validate under and in accordance with the applicable provisions.
(m)
To issue general obligation bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project of the Authority, such obligation bonds shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Act of the General Assembly of Georgia, 1897, (Ga. L. 1897, pp., 82-85), as amended.
(n)
To acquire property through eminent domain for rights-of-way for roads, easements and utilities.
(1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1024) § 1, p. 2602)
Editor's note— 1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1024) § 1, p. 2602 added subsection 6(n) to the original Act.
Sec. 7. - Bonds.
All lands and improvements and personal property the title to which is vested in the Authority, and all debentures, notes, bonds and revenue bond issued by the Authority shall be exempt from State and local taxation.
Sec. 8. - Debts.
The Authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create a debt against the State of Georgia, County of Coffee or the City of Douglas.
Sec. 9. - Audits.
The books and records of the Authority shall be audited at least annually, at the expense of the Authority, by a competent auditor. The Authority shall furnish copies of said audit to the County of Coffee and the City of Douglas.
Sec. 10. - Intent.
This Act being for the purpose of developing and promoting the public good and the welfare of the County of Coffee and the City of Douglas and their inhabitants, shall be liberally constructed to effect the purposes hereof.
Sec. 11. - Severability.
The provisions of this Act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
Sec. 12. - Repealing clause.
All laws or parts of laws in conflict with the provisions of this Act are hereby repealed.
Approval Date: Approved March 10, 1959.
