Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-1 et seq.; administrative powers generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2; provisions applicable to counties and municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Annexation dispute process.
Annexation disputes shall conform with state law.
(Ord. of 6-22-1998, § 6)
State Law reference— Annexation procedure, O.C.G.A. § 36-36-1 et seq.
Secs. 2-2—2-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LEGISLATIVE BODY

Sec. 2-21. - Meetings of the mayor and council.
(a)
Mayor and council shall meet on the first Monday night of each month in a regular meeting which shall be held in the city hall or at such other place as the members may designate. The meeting shall be held at 7:00 p.m. local time. The mayor, any council person, or any citizen who wishes to have an item discussed at the regularly scheduled meeting of the mayor and city council shall notify the city clerk no later than 12:00 noon on the Wednesday immediately preceding said city council meeting of their desire to discuss such a topic at the upcoming meeting. The city clerk shall prepare an agenda based upon these requests and shall forward each member of the city council a copy of this agenda no later than 12:00 noon on the Friday immediately preceding the meeting. No matter may be discussed at a city council meeting unless it is on this agenda unless the mayor and council unanimously vote to approve the discussion of such a matter.
(b)
The mayor or any three city councilmembers may call a special meeting with the same power and authority as a regular meeting. However, either the mayor or the three city councilmembers must give the city clerk at least four days' notice of their intent to call a special meeting and the city clerk shall give each councilmember at least two days' notice of such a city council meeting and the agenda of such a meeting. The city clerk shall attempt to provide notice of any special meeting of the city council in the official organ of the county and if such organ will not publish between the time that the special meeting is called and the time of the special meeting, the city clerk shall notify the Athens Daily News or some other daily newspaper operating from Athens of the intent to have such a special meeting.
(Ord. of 8-3-1964(4), § 1; Ord. of 2-4-1991, § 1)
State Law reference— Open meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1.
Secs. 2-22—2-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

Sec. 2-46. - Tax assessors.
The taxing officials of the county are hereby designated to have the responsibility for assessment and valuation of property within the city limits.
(Ord. of 8-3-1964(12))
Secs. 2-47—2-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - DEPARTMENTS

Sec. 2-66. - City parks and recreation department.
The parks and recreation department of the county is hereby designated as the parks and recreation department of the city.
(Ord. No. 70, 5-3-1971)
State Law reference— Authority, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(5); authority of municipality to construct and operate parks, swimming pools, golf courses, recreation grounds and buildings used for sports, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; establishment of recreation systems authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.
Secs. 2-67—2-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-91—2-106. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION

Sec. 2-107. - Created and established.
The county planning commission, hereinafter referred to as the planning commission, is hereby created and established as authorized by the General Planning and Zoning Enabling Act of 1957 (Act No. 358 as amended) and said planning commission shall be organized and empowered as provided in the following sections.
(Ord. of 8-8-1970, intro. ¶)
Sec. 2-108. - Membership.
The county planning commission shall consist of nine members. One of the members shall be a resident of the City of Colbert appointed by the mayor and council. One of the members shall be a resident of the City of Hull appointed by the mayor and city council. One of the members shall be a resident of the City of Comer appointed by the mayor and city council. One of the members shall be a resident of Carlton appointed by the mayor and council. One of the members shall be a resident of the City of Ila appointed by the mayor and city council. One of the members shall be a resident of the City of Danielsville appointed by the mayor and city council and three of the members shall be residents of the county appointed by the county commissioners. The terms of the members shall be for four years, except that in the appointment of the first county planning commission under the terms of this division one of the city-appointed members shall be appointed for a term of one year and two for a term of three years. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the mayor and city council which shall also have the authority to remove any city-appointed member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
(Ord. of 8-8-1970, § 1)
Sec. 2-109. - Organization, rules, staff, and finances.
The county planning commission shall elect its chairman from among its members. The term of the chairman shall be one year with eligibility for re-election. The commission shall appoint a secretary who may be an officer or an employee of the municipality or the county. The planning commission shall make its own rules of procedure and determine its time of meeting. All meetings of the planning commission at which official action is taken shall be open to the public and all records of the planning commission shall be a public record. The planning commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may contract with the state planning agency and with city planners and other consultants for such services as it may require. The expenditures of the planning commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the governing authorities of the city and the county.
(Ord. of 8-8-1970, § 2)
Sec. 2-110. - Powers and duties.
From and after the time when the planning commission shall have organized and selected its officers and shall have adopted its rules of procedure, then said planning commission shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities set forth in the General Planning and Zoning Enabling Act of 1957 (Act No. 358 as amended).
(Ord. of 8-8-1970, § 3)
