ARTICLE IV. - SEWERS; WASTEWATER DISPOSAL[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Sewage disposal, § 8-4.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-50. - Definitions.
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used in this article shall be as follows:
ASTM: The American Society for Testing and Materials.
BOD (denoting biochemical oxygen demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five (5) days at twenty (20) degrees centigrade, expressed in milligrams per liter.
Building drain: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five (5) feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
Building sewer: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
Chemical oxygen demand (COD): A measure of the oxygen-consuming capacity of inorganic and organic matter present in water and wastewater. It is expressed as the amount of oxygen in milligrams per liter by weight consumed from a chemical oxidant in a specific test.
Combined sewer: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
Director: The director of public works of the city, or authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
Garbage: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
Industrial wastes: The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
Natural outlet: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
OSHA: The Federal Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (PL 91-596), as amended.
pH: The standard industry measurement of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance expressed on a scale of 0—14 standard units, with 0 being highly acidic and 14 being highly alkaline.
Properly shredded garbage: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half (½) inch (1.27 centimeters) in any dimension.
Public sewer: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal rights, and which is controlled by public authority.
Sanitary sewer: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface, and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
Sewage: A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
Sewage treatment plant: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for treating sewage.
Sewage work: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
Sewer: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
Slug: Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty-four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
Storm drain, sometimes termed storm sewer: A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
Suspended solids: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by laboratory filtering.
Total suspended solids (TSS): Solids that either float on the surface of or are in suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by laboratory filtering.
Total Kjeldahl nitrogen (TKN): the quantity of organic nitrogen and ammonia expressed in mg/l.
Total phosphorus (P-total): shall mean the quantity of total phosphorus, mg/l, as determined in accordance with 40 CFR Part 136.
Unpolluted water: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
Wastewater: The spent water of a community; used interchangeably with the term "sewage."
Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
WPCF: The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Code 1963, § 18B-1.1; Ord. No. 2007-34, § 1, 7-23-07)
Sec. 10-51. - Morning Creek Sewerage District defined.
The Morning Creek Sewerage District shall consist of all that part of the city that lies in the 13th District of Fulton County, parts of Land Lots 61, 62, 67, 68, 69, 92, and 93; being more particularly described as being all that land within the city limits south of the present center line of Interstate Highway 285 (I-285) in Land Lots 61 and 62, all lands within the city limits in Land Lot 67, and all lands south of Godby Road and east of Old National Highway within the city limits in Land Lots 68, 69, 92, 93; and all future systems which may be discharged by pumping into the sewers located within this designated area.
(Code 1963, § 22-37; Ord. No. 88-28, § 1, 10-3-88)
Sec. 10-52. - Clayton/Camp Creek Sewerage District defined.
All that part of the City of College Park that lies in the 13th District of Clayton County; bounded on the east by State Route 314; bounded on the north by Godby Road; bounded on the west by the Fulton/Clayton County line, and bounded on the south by the city limits of College Park, and all future systems which may be discharged by pumping into the sewers located within this described area. Said property being a portion of land within the City of College Park lying in the southwest corner of State Route 314 and Godby Road, and being located in a portion of Land Lots 70 and 91 of the 13th District of Clayton County, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 86-15, 4-21-86)
Secs. 10-53—10-59. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CONNECTION[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Minimum sanitary equipment required for housing, § 5-80; minimum plumbing requirements, § 5-150 et seq.

Sec. 10-60. - Sanitary facilities-Required installation; connection required when sewer available non-approved systems to be abandoned; prohibition of connections and sewage discharge for premises that use water not supplied by the city.
(a)
It is unlawful for any residence and building within the city in which human beings reside, are employed or congregate not to have a sanitary method of human excreta disposal, namely either a sanitary water closet connected with the city sewer system, where sewer connection is available; or in case such sewer connection is not available, a septic tank of a type approved by the department of natural resources. No building permit shall be issued or no connection shall be made to a septic tank, an independent sewage disposal system or to a sewage disposal system other than the system operated and maintained by the city, without prior approval of the governing body.
(b)
All private sewage disposal systems not approved by the county board of health shall be abandoned and all houses, buildings, or property shall be connected to public sewers within ninety (90) days after official notice by the director of public works, provided that a serviceable public sewer is within one hundred (100) feet of the property line. All such private sewage disposal systems thus abandoned shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with bankrum gravel or suitable earth when connection is made.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, leasing or otherwise occupying any land, site, building parcel or premises in the city to connect such property to the city's sanitary sewage system and to discharge any water not delivered to such premises by the City of College Park, unless:
(1)
The water is drawn from a well existing on such property; or
(2)
The governing authority of the City of College Park has a written agreement with such public or private water supplier or distribution enterprise regarding the distribution and disposal of such water within the city.
(d)
The public works director shall be charged with monitoring all construction projects within the city and, upon discovery of any proposed construction project which would violate this section, shall notify the owner thereof that it shall not have access to the sewer system of College Park unless and until an agreement is put in place between the water supplier and the City of College Park. Failure to deliver such notice shall confer no rights upon any person to otherwise violate this Code section.
(e)
In the event it is discovered after the effective date of this section that any property owner or occupant is violating the provisions hereof, the director of public works, or his designee, shall notify the owner or occupant of the premises with any unlawful connection that sewer service will be disconnected within seventy-two (72) hours of the notification and that the water provider should cease to supply water to the premises within that time period.
(f)
The chief of police or his designee, with the assistance of the city engineer, or his designee, shall be authorized to disconnect and cap any connection of such premises to the sanitary sewage collection system at such sites as may lie within the city's right-of-way. The owner or occupant of the premises shall be assessed the full costs incurred for the capping and disconnection by the city.
(Code 1963, § 10-3; Ord. No. 2008-16, § 1, 12-1-08)
Cross reference— Sewer use charge applies when sewer available, § 10-100.
Sec. 10-61. - Same—Use required; regulated.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to dispose of any human excreta within the city except in a sanitary water closet connected with the city sewer system, where sewer connection is available, or in case such sewer connection is not available, in a septic tank of the type approved by the department of natural resources, or in a sanitary privy.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person owning or leasing any premises in the city to permit the disposal of any human excreta on any property owned, leased or rented by such person, or by such person's agent, except in a sanitary water closet connected with the city sewer system where sewer connection is available, or in case such sewer connection is not available, in a septic tank of the type approved by the department of natural resources, or a sanitary privy; and it shall be unlawful to permit the disposal of any material in a sanitary privy other than human excreta and paper.
(Code 1963, § 10-4)
Cross reference— Deposit of sewage in unsanitary manner, § 8-4.
Sec. 10-62. - Same—Septic tanks; minimum requirements.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any septic tank other than of the type approved by the department of natural resources, to be constructed or maintained within the city.
(b)
No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(Code 1963, § 10-5)
Sec. 10-63. - Connection permit—Required.
(a)
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the director.
(b)
Applicants for a building sewer connection permit shall notify the director when the building sewer plumbing is ready for connection onto the public sewer. This connection shall be made under the supervision of the director or the director's representative.
(Code 1963, § 18B-4)
Sec. 10-64. - Same—Classes; application.
(a)
There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits:
(1)
For residential and commercial service, and
(2)
For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
(b)
In either case, the owner or the owner's agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the director. A permit and inspection fee for residential or commercial building sewer permit and a permit and inspection fee for an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
(Code 1963, § 18B-5)
Sec. 10-65. - Same—Application by persons outside city.
(a)
Anyone outside the city limits desiring to connect to the city sewer system shall file an application with the city clerk. Said application shall show the location of the property to be served and the location of the city sewer tap connection. The same shall be examined and approved by the city engineer. The city engineer shall determine the cost of extending the line from the applicant's location to the city's system. The applicant shall then post an amount of money sufficient to cover the cost as determined by the city engineer.
(b)
After the foregoing application has been approved by the city engineer and the cost deposited with the city clerk the governing body shall examine the same and may approve the application if found to be in the best interest of the city.
(Code 1963, § 22-45(e), (f))
Sec. 10-66. - Buildings to have independent drainage systems; exceptions.
(a)
Where there is a sewer in the street, the drainage and plumbing system of each building shall be separate from and independent of that of any other building except as provided in subsection (b), and every building shall have an independent connection with a sewer.
(b)
Where one building stands at the rear of another building on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, driveway or easement, the house drain from the front building and the rear building will be considered as one house drain.
(c)
In each case included in the above exception, the owner must make application to and receive permission from the plumbing inspector, such permission when granted, to state the conditions under which such connections may be made and the size of pipes to be used.
(Code 1963, §§ 18B-7, 22-33)
Sec. 10-67. - Performance of connection of building sewer to public sewer—Conformance to rules; responsibility for expense; indemnification.
(a)
The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city.
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the building official before installation.
(b)
All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
(c)
The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Code 1963, §§ 18B-6, 18B-11)
Sec. 10-68. - Same—Excavations.
(a)
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
(b)
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Code 1963, § 18B-12)
Sec. 10-69. - Same—Use of old sewers.
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they are found on examination and test by the director to meet all requirements of this chapter.
(Code 1963, § 18B-8)
Sec. 10-70. - Same—Materials of construction and method of connection.
The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes and other applicable rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions, or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(Code 1963, § 18B-9)
Sec. 10-71. - Same—Elevation of sewer.
Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
(Code 1963, § 18B-10)
Sec. 10-72. - Connection charges—Inside city.
The schedule of charges for sewer connections for stubs inside the city limits shall be determined by a resolution of the mayor and council.
(Code 1963, § 22-44; Ord. No. 86-7, §§ B, C, 3-3-86; Ord. No. 86-12, §§ B, C, 4-7-86; Ord. No. 86-28, § 3, 9-2-86; Ord. No. 2010-24, § 17, 6-21-10)
Cross reference— Payment at time application for connection is filed, § 10-64.
Sec. 10-73. - Same—Outside the city.
The schedule of charges for sewer connections for stubs outside the city limits shall be determined by a resolution of the mayor and council.
(Code 1963, § 22-45(a), (b), (c); Ord. No. 2010-24, § 18, 6-21-10)
Sec. 10-74. - Same—Charges for cutting into streets, sidewalks.
(a)
In addition to the minimum charges for single residences and multiple dwelling units, where the street right-of-way is twenty-five (25) feet or more, the charge for additional sewer connections shall be determined by a resolution of mayor and council.
(b)
In new subdivisions where private enterprise installs connection laterals, trunk lines and stub services to lot property lines for sewerage connections and where taps are made at no expense to the city, an engineer inspection fee shall be determined by a resolution of mayor and council.
(Code 1963, § 22-46; Ord. No. 2010-24, § 18, 6-21-10)
Secs. 10-75—10-79. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - USE OF SEWERS

Sec. 10-80. - Discharge of unpolluted water restricted.
(a)
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the director. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the director, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
(b)
Connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or drains which in turn are connected directly or indirectly to public sanitary sewers, are specifically prohibited.
(c)
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted waters such as storm water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or cooling water to any sewer, except storm water runoff from limited areas, which storm water may be polluted at times and may be discharged to the sanitary sewer by permission of the director.
(Code 1963, § 18B-13)
Sec. 10-81. - Discharge of polluted waters prohibited.
Unless they apply for and receive a permit therefore from the city, no person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of the director that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. In forming such opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes for the purposed of determining if a Permit should issue, the director will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The director, in issuing a permit, shall establish the necessary preconditions that must be followed by the permit holder, including periodic testing and reporting of the levels of such discharges.
(1)
Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas.
(2)
Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to damage or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but not limited to cyanides in excess of one mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
(3)
Reserved.
(4)
Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the proper operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Code 1963, § 18B-14; Ord. No. 2007-34, §§ 2, 3, 7-23-07)
Sec. 10-82. - Discharge of dangerous materials—Approval of director.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of the director that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. In forming such opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the director will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
(1)
Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty (150) degrees Fahrenheit (65 degrees centigrade).
(2)
Any water or wastes, containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between thirty-two (32) and one hundred fifty (150) degrees Fahrenheit (0 and 65 degrees centigrade).
(3)
Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (¾) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the director.
(4)
Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
(5)
Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the director for such materials.
(6)
Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other waste or odor-producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be established by the director as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
(7)
Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the director in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
(8)
Any waste having a pH of less than six (6) or greater than nine and one-half (9.5).
(9)
Materials which exert or cause:
(a)
Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not limited to, Fuller's earth, lime slurries, and the lime residues) or of dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
(b)
Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions).
(c)
Chemical oxygen demand (COD), or chlorine requirements in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewerage treatment works.
(d)
Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting "slugs" as defined herein.
(10)
Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
(11)
Hydrogen sulfide, sulphur dioxide and nitrous oxide shall be limited to one mg/l in any wastes introduced to the public sanitary sewer.
(12)
Any wastes having a five-day COD in excess of five hundred (500) mg/l by weight on a 24-hour composite basis shall be prohibited from introduction to the public sanitary sewer.
(13)
Any waters or wastes having any corrosive properties capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment, or personnel of the sewerage works.
(Code 1963, § 18B-15; Ord. No. 2007-34, §§ 4—7, 7-23-07)
Sec. 10-83. - Same—Remedy for discharge.
(a)
If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in section 10-82, and which in the judgment of the director, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the director may:
(1)
Reject the wastes,
(2)
Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the public sewers,
(3)
Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge, and/or
(4)
Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of section 10-88.
(b)
If the director permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the director, and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. Dilution of incompatible wastes with uncontaminated water is not an acceptable method of waste equalization.
(Code 1963, § 18B-16)
Sec. 10-84. - Grease, oil, and sand interceptors required.
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the director, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for detached single-family residential units. All interceptors shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the director. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed by the owner or owner's personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms or approved recycling firms.
(Code 1963, § 18B-17)
Sec. 10-85. - Flow-equalizing facilities.
Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at the owner's expense.
(Code 1963, § 18B-18)
Sec. 10-86. - Manholes for industrial wastes.
When required by the director, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the director. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner's expense, and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Code 1963, § 18B-19)
Sec. 10-87. - Measurement, tests, and analyses of wastes.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater," published by the American Public Health Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses involved will determine whether a twenty-four (24) hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from twenty-four (24)-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH's are determined from periodic grab samples.)
(Code 1963, § 18B-20)
Sec. 10-88. - Exception to provisions by special agreement.
No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the industrial concern.
(Code 1963, § 18B-21)
Sec. 10-89. - Damaging sewerage works.
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the sewerage works. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest and charged with a misdemeanor.
(Code 1963, § 18B-22)
Sec. 10-90. - Director's power to enter and inspect properties—Generally; limitation.
The director and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this article. The director or the director's representatives shall have no authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
(Code 1963, § 18B-23)
Sec. 10-91. - Same—Duty of director to observe safety rules; liability of company.
While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in section 10-90, the director or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in section 10-86.
(Code 1963, § 18B-24)
Sec. 10-92. - Same—Easements.
The director and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewerage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Code 1963, § 18B-25)
Sec. 10-93. - Analysis—Periodic.
(a)
The industrial waste of each person discharging same into the city sanitary sewers shall be subject to periodic inspection. A determination of character and concentration of said wastes shall be made as provided in the permit issued by the director.
(b)
Determination of character and concentration of wastes, as determined by sampling, may be used to adjust these factors in the formula for the billing period following determination.
(c)
Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be representative of the actual quality of the wastes. The laboratory methods used in the examination of said wastes shall be those set forth in "Standard Methods."
(Code 1963, § 18B-30; Ord. No. 2007-34, § 8, 7-23-07)
Sec. 10-94. - Same—Disputed; regauging and sampling of wastes.
In the event that an analysis of wastes, determined by the samplings and gauging of wastes from a person or industry by the city is disputed, a program of resampling and gauging, with subsequent chemical determinations may be instituted as follows:
(1)
The person or industrial user interested must submit a request for resampling and gauging of their wastes to the director of public works by letter and bind themselves to bear the expenses incurred by the city in the resampling and gauging and subsequent chemical determination of the wastes.
(2)
The chemist or engineer employed by the company responsible for the request submitted to the city must confer with the city's engineer in charge of gauging and sampling. They will establish the length of the rerun and the methods to be employed to determine the flow and to sample the flow.
(3)
The chemist or engineer engaged by the person or industry may be present during the gauging and sampling operation and also in the city laboratory during the chemical determination of the analysis.
(4)
The results of the analysis, determined from the quantity and quality of the flow, shall be considered the analysis of record and shall be used to establish current billing procedures.
(Code 1963, § 18B-31)
Sec. 10-95. - Compliance with federal pretreatment requirements; maintenance.
(a)
All industrial users of the sanitary sewers discharging incompatible or toxic pollutants shall meet the requirements of the federal pretreatment standards (40 CFR, Part 129) as provided by section 307(b) of Public Law 92-500. In some cases, these pretreatment standards may not be sufficient to protect the operation of treatment works, or to ensure compliance with state and federal regulations. In such cases, the right is reserved to impose more stringent pretreatment standards than those specified in federal regulations.
(b)
Where treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at the owner's expense.
(Code 1963, § 18B-34; Ord. No. 2007-34, § 9, 7-23-07)
Sec. 10-96. - Treatment of wastewater discharged to natural outlet.
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with provisions of this article.
(Code 1963, § 18B-3)
Sec. 10-97. - Penalties; correction.
(a)
Any person found to be violating any provision of this division, except sections 10-89 and 10-96 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(b)
Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limits provided for in subsection (a) of this section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in section 18 for each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(c)
Any person violating any of the provisions of this division shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city by reason of such violation.
(Code 1963, § 18B-26)
Secs. 10-98, 10-99. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - USER CHARGES

Sec. 10-100. - Sewer use charge applies when sewer available.
Where a sanitary sewer has been installed in any street of the city and is available for use to the abutting property, all property which is connected to the city water system and which abuts upon such street shall be subject to the sewer use and maintenance charge in the amount prescribed by the applicable city ordinances. Said maintenance charge shall begin six (6) months following the date the sanitary sewer becomes active and available for use or the month the abutting property is connected to the sewer, whichever shall first occur.
(Code 1963, § 22-34)
Sec. 10-101. - Charge generally for use, maintenance of sewer system; imposed amount.
(a)
Charges. There is hereby assessed and levied upon each parcel of real property in the city on which is located a water pipe used for the purpose of channeling water purchased from the city or on which is located a water pipe line or sewer line connected to the sewer system of the city, and against the owners of same, a monthly charge, based upon water usage, for use and maintenance of the sewer system. The council shall by resolution fix rates for which sanitary sewer services shall be furnished for all purposes within the area served by the city.
(b)
Abutting property. Property abutting the sanitary sewer system shall pay a charge which shall be set by the council by resolution.
(c)
Negotiated charges. All industrial customers, purchasing water that is consumed in their product, shall pay a monthly assessment based on the formula of subsection (a). When any industrial customer is of the opinion that said formula is not fair and equitable, said customer may apply and request the city to negotiate and establish a monthly assessment in the customer's product and the discharge into the system. The customer shall provide to the city certified engineering data establishing the amount of water consumed in the product and the customer's daily average discharge into the system. The city may, if it so elects, conduct its own survey of such information.
(d)
Due date. Each monthly charge shall mature and be due and payable according to the cycle billing dates for electricity and water charges as set out in section 10-5.
(e)
Charge constitutes lien. The amount of each of said monthly charges shall be payable in cash and shall constitute a lien upon the real estate, and be subject to be enforced as provided in the charter of the city.
(f)
Charges outside corporate limits. For the monthly sewer maintenance charge for users beyond the corporate limits of the city, there is affixed and established a rate and charge in an amount of one and one-half (1½) times the rates and charges designated for the users within the city limits.
(g)
Charges for users within Morning Creek Sewerage District. For the monthly sewer maintenance charge for users within the Morning Creek Sewerage District, there is hereby affixed and established a rate and charge as established by the formula of an assessment and levy equal to four dollars and ninety-five cents ($4.95) for the first three thousand (3,000) gallons of water consumption, plus one dollar and sixty-five cents ($1.65) per one thousand (1,000) gallons over three thousand (3,000) gallons, as determined by appropriate water meter readings for the current billing period.
(h)
Charges for users within the Clayton/Camp Creek Sewerage District. For the monthly sewer maintenance charge for users within the Clayton/Camp Creek Sewerage District, there is hereby affixed and established a rate and charge per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water as shown by water meter readings for the current billing period based on a pro-ration of Clayton Co. Water Authority billing charge (established in accordance with paragraph four (4) of the agreement titled "Sanitary Sewer Service Agreement Camp Creek Drainage Basin" dated April 21, 1986) divided by the total quantity of all water meter readings in thousands of gallons within the Clayton/Camp Creek Sewerage District.
Charges to users within the district shall commence on the first of the month that any users discharge of sewage is tied into the collection system of the district which discharges to the Clayton County Water Authority sewage metering station (established in accordance with paragraph two (2) of the agreement titled "Sanitary Sewer Service Agreement Camp Creek Drainage Basin" dated April 21, 1986).
(i)
Charges for users with water not supplied by the city. For the monthly sewer maintenance charge for users not supplied domestic water by the city who have been issued a permit by the governing authority pursuant to section 10-60(c) there shall be fixed and established a rate and charge as determined by a formula that includes a surcharge for sewer main capacity reserved and opportunity cost associated with providing sewer service for users who are not using domestic water supplied by the city as well as any third party, internal and administrative costs related to conveyance and treatment of sewage discharged into the sanitary sewers of the City of College Park as determined by appropriate meter readings for the current billing period set at the users connection to the sanitary sewers of the city.
(Code 1963, § 22-35; Ord. No. 86-7, § A, 3-3-86; Ord. No. 86-12, § A, 4-7-86; Ord. No. 86-15, 4-21-86; Ord. No. 88-17, §§ 1, 2, 7-5-88; Ord. No. 90-16, §§ 1, 2, 7-16-90; Ord. No. 91-12, §§ 1, 2, 7-1-91; Ord. No. 2000-20, § 1, 9-18-00; Ord. No. 2002-02, § 1, 1-7-02; Ord. No. 2003-28, § 1, 7-7-03; Ord. No. 2003-28, § 1, 8-1-03; Ord. No. 04-21, § 1, 7-6-04; Ord. No. 2006-22, § 1, 7-17-06; Ord. No. 2007-22, § 1, 9-4-07; Ord. No. 2007-34, § 10, 7-23-07; Ord. No. 2008-16, § 2, 12-1-08; Ord. No. 2009-14, § 3, 8-3-09)
Sec. 10-102. - Industrial wastes surcharges—When required.
Established. All persons discharging industrial wastes into the public sewers shall be charged and assessed a surcharge per billing period unless otherwise indicated, in addition to any sewer service charges, if these wastes have a concentration greater than the following:
(1)
A COD (chemical oxygen demand) content of five hundred (500) mg/l as determined by laboratory analysis in accordance with procedures prescribed in section 10-103. The surcharge shall be ten cents ($0.10) per pound.
(2)
A suspended solids content of two hundred fifty (250) parts per million as determined by laboratory analysis in accordance with "Standard Methods".
(Code 1963, § 18B-27; Ord. No. 2007-34, § 11, 7-23-07)
Sec. 10-103. - Same—Formula for determining.
(a)
When the COD, P-total, TKN and/or TSS of wastewater accepted for admission to the city sewerage works exceeds the values of these constituents for "normal" sewage, the excess concentration shall be evaluated in terms of 'normal' sewerage and be subject to a surcharge on the amount derived in accordance with the following formula:
Amount of surcharge = (S or N or C or P)(F)(S)(8.34)
Where:
EXPAND
S = The total suspended solids in the wastewater above the established maximum of 250 mg/l.
N = Total Kjeldahl nitrogen above the established limit of 25 mg/l.
C = Chemical oxygen demand above the established limit of 500 mg/l.
P = Total Phosphorous above 10 mg/l.
F = The quantity of wastewater discharged into the sewerage works per billing period, expressed in million gallons.
S = The cost per pound for the handling and treatment of the surcharge testing parameter, expressed in amounts per pound.
8.34 = Conversion factor from gallons of wastewater to pounds of wastewater.
  (b)
The rate of surcharge ($) shall be reviewed annually by the director of public works in order that the above factors may correctly represent current treatment costs. If changes are deemed advisable, they may be made when approved by the city council. The rate of surcharge ($) referred to above shall be as designated in section 10-102, and the industrial wastes surcharge shall be initiated effective immediately.
(Code 1963, §§ 18B-28, 18B-29(b), 18B-32; Ord. No. 2007-34, § 12, 7-23-07)
Sec. 10-104. - Prohibited discharges.
It shall be unlawful for any wastewaters or wastes to have a pH lower than six (6.0) or higher than nine and one-half (9.5) at any time, or to have any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment, or personnel of the water pollution control facilities, as determined by laboratory analysis in accordance with procedures prescribed in section 10-103. The first violation of this article shall result in a written letter warning of the violation. The penalty for subsequent violations of this provision shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each day that a laboratory analysis indicates the pH lower or upper limit has been violated or that any corrosive property exists.
(Ord. No. 2007-34, § 13, 7-23-07)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2007-34, § 13, adopted July 23, 2007, amended section 10-104 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, section 10-104 pertained to industrial wastes surcharge—to effectuate cost recovery, and derived from the Code of 1963, § 18B-29(a).
Secs. 10-105—10-109. - Reserved.
