ARTICLE XXI. - MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR FACILITIES[10]

Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 98-06, § 1, adopted March 2, 1998, amended the Code by adding provisions designated as Art. V, §§ 11-80—-11-84. In order to avoid conflicts in section numbering, the editor has redesignated the provisions of Ord. No. 98-06 as Art. XXI, §§ 11-341—11-345.

Secs. 11-341. - Applicability.
(a)
The provisions of this article shall apply to the following commercial facilities:
(1)
All automotive stations, filling stations, gas stations and similar facilities, regardless of how denominated;
(2)
All motor vehicle repair garages and/or maintenance facilities;
(3)
Motor vehicle repair and servicing facilities associated with department stores, rental car agencies, taxi cab services, or any other business, to the extent that vehicles are awaiting repair, are under repair, or are awaiting pickup following repair;
(4)
Any other commercial operation which derives forty (40) per cent or more of its revenue from the repair or restoration of motor vehicles, to the extent that vehicles are awaiting repair, are under repair, or are awaiting pickup following repair.
(Ord. No. 98-06, § 1, 3-2-98)
Sec. 11-342. - Repair operations to be housed indoors.
(a)
All servicing, except the dispensing of gasoline and oil, is to be performed within fully enclosed and roofed areas. Draining of oil and other fluids from vehicles while located out of doors is specifically prohibited.
(b)
No lifts, jacks, or other equipment shall be located outside the fully enclosed and roofed service area. No hoods or trunks may be raised on any vehicle awaiting servicing and stored outside the premises; provided, however, that minor emergency repairs required to move a vehicle into the enclosed service area, such as, but not limited to, jumping a battery, may be made out of doors.
(Ord. No. 98-06, § 1, 3-2-98)
Sec. 11-343. - Outdoor parking and storage.
(a)
Areas used for the parking and storage of vehicles shall be permanently paved with concrete or asphalt.
(b)
Open storage of vehicles on paved, but unscreened areas, is limited to those motor vehicles awaiting repair or awaiting pick up by the owner.
(c)
No motor vehicle may be stored in an open, unscreened storage area for more than a total of fourteen (14) days in any thirty-day calendar. The owner of a motor vehicle repair facility shall be required to maintain log sheets which show the day vehicles were deposited at the facility for repair, the dates of repair, the date the vehicle is returned to the outside storage area to await pick up by the owner, and the date of actual pick up. Vehicles on the property which cannot meet the open storage requirement set out in this provision must be parked within the building or within an area completely fenced and screened from view from adjacent rights-of-way and adjacent property or offsite in an area permitting the parking and storage of vehicles.
(d)
A daily limitation on the total number of vehicles accepted for repair or otherwise maintained in open storage is established at four (4) vehicles per bay. For purposes of this subsection, a "bay" is defined as an unobstructed area no less than 10′ × 20′ in size and devoted exclusively to automotive repairs and set aside for the repair of a single vehicle. At no time may the number of motor vehicles stored in the open on the property exceed four (4) vehicles per bay in the establishment.
(Ord. No. 98-06, § 1, 3-2-98)
Sec. 11-344. - Landscaping; buffers.
Landscaping, buffers and screening shall meet the standards of the district in which the motor vehicle repair facility is located.
(Ord. No. 98-06, § 1, 3-2-98)
Sec. 11-345. - Cumulative nature of provisions.
The provisions of this article are cumulative and shall be read in conjunction with other provisions of this Code of Ordinances, including the Zoning Ordinance [Appendix A], which concern motor vehicle repair facilities. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Article and the provision of any other regulation concerning motor vehicle repair facilities, the most stringent standard shall prevail and be controlling.
(Ord. No. 98-06, § 1, 3-2-98)
Secs. 11-346—11-349. - Reserved.
