ARTICLE XVI. - BILLIARD ROOMS

Sec. 11-250. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the term:
Billiard room means any public place where a person is permitted to play the game of billiards and for which a charge is made for use of equipment.
Billiards means any of the several games played on a table surrounded by an elastic ledge of cushions with balls which are impelled by a cue and shall include all forms of the game known as "carom billiards," "pocket billiards," "English billiards," and "pool."
Premises means the interior of the establishment holding a license under this article as well as all exterior grounds and parking areas which are under the control and/or ownership of the license holder.
(Ord. No. 91-1, § 1, 2-18-91)
Sec. 11-251. - License requirement; procedure.
(a)
Any person desiring to operate a billiard room within the city shall obtain a license which, unless billiards are to be the sole business enterprise, shall be acquired in addition to all other licenses required by this Code, including, but not limited to, licenses to serve alcoholic beverages and other business licenses. Such person shall make application to the city clerk or her designated representative and shall show:
(1)
That the applicant has never been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
(2)
That the applicant will certify that he is actively involved in the management of the business and that he will be responsible for violations that occur; and
(3)
That the applicant agrees to comply with all state laws and local ordinances regulating the business.
(b)
The application shall include a scale drawing of the premises, including interior walls and also any parking areas reserved for the licensed establishment.
(c)
Applicants for a billiard room license shall be required to pay a regulatory fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per year and, in addition, shall be subject to all business and occupation taxes levied by Article I of this chapter.
(d)
Upon applicant meeting the requirements hereinabove set forth, a license shall be issued by the city for such fee as set forth in the city business license schedule.
(Ord. No. 91-1, § 1, 2-18-91; Ord. No. 95-8, § 18, 11-7-95)
Sec. 11-252. - Operating standards; conduct; exceptions.
(a)
No billiard room shall be configured in such a manner that any person, upon entering the building on the premises, is not afforded a clear and unobstructed view of all billiard tables located within the building on the premises. No person who operates a billiard room shall permit any screens, curtains, blinds, partitions or other obstructions to be used to prevent such a clear view. Nothing herein shall be construed so as to prohibit the maintenance of washrooms and toilet rooms for proper purposes and other maintenance of closets for storage purposes exclusively.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a billiard room between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. of the following morning or to permit any person to remain in such billiard room between such prohibited hours, except regular employees performing necessary labor on the premises.
(c)
No form of gambling shall be allowed on the premises, including in any other business premises operated in connection with the licensed operation.
(d)
It shall be the duty of the chief of police or other constituted authorities to inspect all public billiard rooms in the city for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not the provisions of this article are being observed.
(e)
The doors of all billiard rooms shall be kept unlocked whenever the tables are in use or when any person other than the proprietor or his agent is present in the establishment.
(f)
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold except in those establishments which also possess a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises. Only alcoholic beverages sold under the license may be consumed or be kept on the premises and must remain within the building at all times.
(g)
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to play billiards in, or for any other purpose to enter or remain on, the premises of any billiard room in which alcoholic beverages are offered for sale. This section shall not apply to persons under eighteen (18) years of age who are accompanied by a parent or guardian, or who possess a written permit from a parent or guardian which permit is witnessed by a notary public with seal. In the event that the proprietor of a billiard room is of the opinion that any person desiring admission thereto is under the age of eighteen (18) years, he shall require such person to produce photo identification establishing his age.
(Ord. No. 91-1, § 1, 2-18-91)
Sec. 11-253. - License regulations regarding revenue percentage, package sales.
No license to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises shall be issued or remain in effect for any business holding a billiard room license unless the establishment derives at least seventy-five (75) per cent of its revenue from the sale of products or services other than alcoholic beverages. No package sales of alcoholic beverages shall be allowed for any business holding a billiard room license.
(Ord. No. 91-1, § 1, 2-18-91)
Sec. 11-254. - Violations; penalties.
In the event that any owner or operator of a billiard room is found to be in violation of the provisions of this article, he shall be cited for such violation, and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine or imprisonment, or both, as established by section 1-8 of the Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. 91-1, § 1, 2-18-91)
Sec. 11-255. - License suspension; revocation.
(a)
In addition to the penalties prescribed by section 11-254, the mayor and council, upon becoming aware of an alleged violation of this article or of any state law regulating alcoholic beverages or controlled substances on the licensed premises, may notify the license holder to appear for a hearing at such time and place as established by the city council to answer to charges of the alleged violation and to show cause why his license should not be suspended or revoked. At least ten (10) days' written notice shall be provided to a license holder of any hearing under this section.
(b)
Any violation of a provision of this article or of the city alcoholic beverage ordinance, other city ordinances or of state laws relating to billiard rooms, alcoholic beverages or controlled substances shall be considered as grounds for license suspension or revocation under this article.
(Ord. No. 91-1, § 1, 2-18-91)
Secs. 11-256—11-274. - Reserved.
