ARTICLE II. - ELECTRICITY

Sec. 10-20. - Connection charges.
(a)
For each new customer of the electrical system or where the service is rebuilt or relocated for the convenience of or at the request of the customer, the following connection charges shall be levied:
(1)
Where both the meter and receptacle are furnished by the city, the charge shall be as determined by resolution of the mayor and council.
(2)
Where the receptacle is furnished by the customer and the meter is furnished by the city, the connection charge shall be as determined by resolution of the mayor and council.
(3)
Where neither an additional meter nor receptacle is furnished by the city, the cost for rebuilding or changing of a customer's individual service facilities for the customer's convenience or at customer's request shall be as determined by resolution of the mayor and council.
(4)
The city shall furnish the meter and the customer shall furnish the receptacle, unless otherwise approved by the mayor and council.
(5)
Charges made for normal maintenance or repair associated with the individual customer's service due to normal wear and aging shall be as determined by resolution of the mayor and council, provided that such repairs are acknowledged by the city as part of the city's normal maintenance responsibility.
(6)
For three (3) phase services, additional increases in the above charges shall be as determined by resolution of the mayor and council.
(7)
Charges with respect to any business located in the city for any subsequent relocation requiring the same size meter and receptacle shall be as determined by resolution of the mayor and council.
(b)
The preceding charge shall provide partial reimbursement to the city for material, labor, equipment and overhead costs associated with provision of new or revised customer service installations on the customer's property or immediately adjacent thereto. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) where additional service line must be provided, this charge is not intended to cover any portion of service line, distribution, transmission, transformer, or substation construction or maintenance costs.
(c)
All electrical meters shall be the sole property of the city and complete ownership and control of the meter shall be vested in the city. The city reserves the right in the event of actual or threatened power failure or safety hazard to make repairs of a permanent or temporary nature on meter receptacles and no receptacle shall be tampered with or altered in a manner as to affect the safety, convenience, adequacy of service or the accuracy of metering service in any manner, direct or indirect.
(d)
Where any material or work associated with the customer's service installation is provided by the customer, such material or work shall conform to specifications and requirements set by the city, so that the public health, safety, convenience and welfare may be protected.
(e)
The charges specified herein shall be in addition to any other charges presently levied for or provision of underground electrical service.
(f)
Temporary electrical service.
(1)
Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, all customers or contractors requesting temporary electrical service shall pay to the city one hundred (100) per cent of the cost prior to installation by the city.
(2)
In the event of the construction of a single-family residential home, construction of which is being performed on behalf of the owner who intends to occupy such home, all customers or contractors requesting temporary electrical service shall pay to the city only the connection fee for such service, provided that the temporary service can be extended and utilized fully as the connection for permanent service. If the temporary service cannot be extended and utilized fully for the connection of permanent service, all customers or contractors requesting temporary electrical service shall pay to the city one hundred (100) per cent of the cost of the temporary electrical service and the connection fee for such service prior to installation of the city.
(Code 1963, § 22-22; Ord. No. 85-5, 3-18-85; Ord. No. 96-01, § 1, 1-16-96; Ord. No. 2010-24, § 7, 6-21-10)
Sec. 10-21. - Meter placement.
All electric meters shall be installed on the exterior of the building at a height and in a location so as to make the meter accessible for reading. No meter shall be enclosed within an area so as to prohibit reading without the presence of the owner or occupant. No meter shall be placed or maintained within any area where vicious dogs or other animals may prohibit the reading of the meter. In the event any meter is installed or maintained in violation of the above, and the meter cannot be read on two (2) consecutive regular reading dates, the city may, after thirty (30) days' notice to the owner and occupant, install a meter at the expense of the consumer.
(Code 1963, § 22-23)
Sec. 10-22. - Monthly rates—Residential.
The schedule of monthly electric rates and service charges, including adjustments for fuel costs and wholesale costs and adjustments for multiple units served by a single meter, in respect to electricity supplied by the electrical system of the city for residential use and for use incidental thereto shall be as fixed from time-to-time by resolution of the mayor and council.
(Code 1963, § 22-18; Ord. No. 84-10, § a, 6-25-84; Ord. No. 86-22, §§ A, B, 7-7-86; Ord. No. 88-11, § 19, 5-2-88; Ord. No. 2010-24, § 8, 6-21-10)
Sec. 10-23. - Same—General service.
The schedule of electric rates and service charges, including adjustments for fuel costs and wholesale costs and adjustments, in respect to electricity supplied by the electrical system of the city for all electric service of one standard secondary voltage required on customer's premises, delivered at one point and metered at or compensated to the voltage shall be as fixed from time to time by resolution of the mayor and council.
(Code 1963, § 22-19; Ord. No. 84-10, §§ b, c, 6-25-84; Ord. No. 86-22, §§ C—F, 7-7-86; Ord. No. 88-11, § 20, 5-2-88; Ord. No. 90-23, § 1, 12-10-90; Ord. No. 2010-24, § 9, 6-21-10)
Sec. 10-24. - Inspection of rates by public.
All current rates, charges and fees shall be maintained on file in the office of the city clerk where they shall be available for public inspection.
(Ord. No. 2010-24, § 10, 6-21-10)
Editor's note— Prior to the reenactment of section 10-24 by Ord. No. 2010-24, Ord. No. 88-11, § 21, adopted May 2, 1988, repealed section 10-24, pertaining to monthly industrial electricity rates, which derived from Code 1963, § 22-20.
Sec. 10-25. - Monthly rates; sales tax not included.
The state sales tax in the amount prescribed by law is not included in the rate and charges established in this article.
(Code 1963, § 22-21)
State Law reference— Sales tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-8-1 et seq.
Sec. 10-26. - Tampering with electrical metering devices.
(a)
For purposes of this section, "Electrical Metering Device" includes but is not limited to electric meters, meter bases, meter base covers, meter locks, meter seals, and switch gears.
(b)
"Tampering" with electrical metering devices provided by the city includes but is not limited to the following situations and is therefore prohibited:
(1)
Obtaining or the restoration of electrical service by any means after such service has been terminated for nonpayment.
(2)
Obtaining electrical service without making the proper deposit with the city, or without receiving proper authorization from the city to receive such services.
(3)
Obtaining electrical service by any means which bypasses the electrical metering device, either partially or completely.
(4)
Obtaining electrical service by use of an electrical metering device which is not authorized and installed by the city.
(5)
Obtaining, or attempting to obtain, electrical service by using a false name or identification.
(6)
Obtaining, or attempting to obtain, electrical service by placing the account in another person's name, after the service has been disconnected for nonpayment or theft of service, while the person in default or violation continues to reside at the location of the service.
(7)
Cutting, removing, or in any manner making ineffective, any seal, locking band or lock on an electrical metering device.
(8)
Damaging or tampering in any manner with any part of an electrical metering device belonging to the city.
(9)
Changing or altering the normal installed position of an electrical metering device in any fashion which causes the normal accurate recording of electrical service received to be altered and/or inaccurate.
(10)
Interfering with the automatic registration, recording and transmission of electrical consumption when readings are recorded and/or transmitted electronically.
(c)
Any evidence of the violation of any provision of this section shall result in immediate disconnection of electrical service and a tampering fee of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per incident.
(d)
A violation of any provision of this section shall be a separate and distinct offense, in addition to any other violation that may be established.
(e)
Any person found in violation of any provision in this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine or imprisonment, as prescribed in section 1-8 of this Code. Any person found in violation of any provision in this section shall be required to make full restitution to the city for the cost of the electrical services illegally obtained, for damage to equipment of the city, if applicable, and for all costs associated with the investigation of the violation. In calculating the amount of restitution to be paid, the court will be asked to consider the following evidence:
(1)
The cost of the electrical service received at the prevailing rate.
(2)
The current cost to repair or replace the damaged equipment, if applicable.
(3)
The hourly rate of the code enforcement officer and time spent investigating the violation, together with any other costs associated with the investigation.
(f)
Disconnected electrical service shall not be restored until all applicable fees, restitution, and/or fines are paid in full. If electrical service is disconnected due to tampering with meter bases or wires connecting meter bases to the premises, electrical service shall not be restored until such meter base and/or such wiring is repaired by the owner of the premises.
(g)
This section shall be cumulative to the O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25, and is enacted pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25(c).
(Ord. No. 2016-10, § 1, 4-4-16)
Sec. 10-27. - Electric rates; outside the city.
The schedule of electric rates and service charges, including adjustments for fuel costs and wholesale costs and adjustments in respect to electricity supplied by the electric system of the city to customers outside of the corporate limits of the City of College Park shall be determined by resolution of the mayor and council. Should any customers of the city electric service subject to the rates outlined in this section be subsequently annexed into the city limits of the City of College Park, the rates levied against said customers shall change to the rate schedule as outlined in section 10-22(a) of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. 87-25, § 1, 8-17-87; Ord. No. 88-3, § 1, 2-1-88; Ord. No. 2010-24, § 11, 6-21-10)
Sec. 10-28. - All other rates, fees and charges.
All other rates, service charges, and fees of the power department shall be determined by resolution of the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 2010-24, § 12, 6-21-10)
Sec. 10-29. - Liability for tampering.
(a)
Any person in possession of any premises as owner is strictly liable for any violations of section 10-26 on the premises.
(b)
Any person in possession of any premises as owner, occupant, or tenant where a violation of section 10-26 has occurred shall be presumed to have knowledge of such violation and is individually liable for such violation. Further, the owner, occupant and tenant of the premises are jointly liable for such violation.
(c)
The receipt of electrical services in violation of any provision of section 10-26 shall be deemed prima facie evidence of intent to defraud or deprive the city from recovering proper payment for such service.
(Ord. No. 2016-10, § 2, 4-4-16)
