ARTICLE 2. - ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED

2.1 - Establishment of Zoning Districts.
For the purpose of this ordinance, the planning jurisdiction is divided into the following zoning districts for the general uses as stated. These districts shall be indicated on the Official Zoning Map and labeled using the codes noted below. Each of the zoning districts stands alone and is not part of a hierarchy-system of zoning. Only those uses and development standards which are expressly permitted and noted for each district apply to that district.
R1 - Low Density Residential District: This district is established to provide for large lot, estate type residential development in a suburban environment.
R2 - Medium Density Residential District: This district is established to provide for the medium density development of single-family detached homes on medium-sized lots in a suburban environment.
R3 - High Density Residential District: This district is established to provide for the high density development of single-family detached homes on small lots in a walkable environment.
RM - Multiple Family Residential: This district is established to provide for the development of multiple family residential units, including apartments, townhomes, fee simple townhomes, condominiums, and structures containing three (3) or more dwelling units.
DC - Downtown Commercial: This district is established to provide for the development of mixed use structures in an urban walkable environment with retail commercial as the predominant use.
DO - Downtown Office: This district is established to provide for the development of mixed use structures in an urban walkable environment with offices as the predominant use.
OP - Office Professional: This district is established to provide a land use category for appropriate office, institutional, and public uses in a suburban setting.
C1 - Neighborhood Business: This district is established to provide a land use category for conventional suburban commercial development at a neighborhood scale to provide goods and services to adjacent residential neighborhoods.
C2 - Community Business: This district is established to provide a land use category for conventional suburban commercial development at a scale that will provide goods and services to the City of College Park and surrounding cities.
HC - Hospitality Campus: This district is established to provide a walkable campus environment for the Georgia International Convention Center and related uses.
BP - Business Park: This district is established to maximize the potential of College Park's proximity to Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport and the city's superior highway access. This classification is for land dedicated to offices, research and development, logistics, wholesale trade and other compatible uses. Business Parks are intended to be low density with extensive landscaping, with adjustments to building, site design, and vehicular access to be compatible with any neighboring residential uses.
LI - Light Industrial: This district is established to provide a land use category for assembly, warehousing, wholesale activities, and other light industrial operations.
HI - Heavy Industrial: This district is established to provide a land use category for manufacturing, assembling, and fabrication activities including large scale or specialized industrial operations.
TR - Transportation: This district is established to provide a land use category for automobile and transportation specialized operations.
2.2 - Standards for District Land Uses.
Specific land uses are either Permitted, Non-Permitted or a Conditional Use in each Zoning District. The city's permitted and Conditional Uses for each district are noted in the Permitted Use and Conditional Use columns in Article 3 of this ordinance.
2.3 - Unlisted or Questionable Land Uses.
The City Planner may determine into which category any questionable use be placed if it is not specifically listed but similar to another use that is a permitted or conditional use. This determination may be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
