ARTICLE 10. - SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANS

10.1 - Intent.
The intent of this Article is to further the goals of the City of College Park's Comprehensive Plan; provide for the adequate, consistent review of new development to ensure compliance with this Code; provide for the appropriate creation of facilities and systems for the accommodation of traffic and utilities; and address the unique characteristics of certain types of development that require specific review and approval.
10.2 - Site Development Plan Required.
Site Development Plans shall be required for all developments for which a Land Disturbance and Erosion Control Permit is required by this Code. The following types of development shall be exempt from the requirements of this Article, but shall be required to obtain a Construction Improvement Permit and any other permit or approval required by this Code:
A.
The expansion of an existing structure or the construction of an accessory structure which does not result in a greater than ten (10) percent increase in the floor area of the structures that were previously existing on the property or require the provision of additional landscaping, parking, or other improvement regulated by this Code.
10.3 - Review and Approval Authority.
The City Planner, Chief Building Inspector, and Engineering Director shall have the authority to review and approve Site Development Plans required by this Article consistent with these provisions.
Neither the City Planner, Chief Building Inspector, and/or Engineering Director, nor the Planning Commission shall have the authority to waive any requirement of this Code in the review of a Site Development Plan.
The procedure for the review of proposed amendments or revisions to previously approved Site Development Plans shall follow the process for the initial approval of Site Development Plans outlined below.
10.4 - Review Process and Standards.
Site Development Plans shall be subject to the following review and approval process:
A.
General Requirements: All applications may be obtained through the Chief Building Inspector's office. Fees shall be paid at the time the petition and permit applications are submitted.
1.
All applications shall be made on forms provided by the Chief Building Inspector. All petitioners and permit applicants shall submit original applications which are completed in their entirety either in ink or typed. All applications shall be signed and notarized (if required).
2.
All petitioners and applicants shall submit copies of applications and necessary attachments as required by the adopted policies of the City Planner.
3.
All petitions and permit applications shall be assigned reference and/or docket numbers by the City Planner. Petition applications shall be scheduled by the City Planner for the appropriate public hearings based on the completeness of the application consistent with the requirements of this Article and the appropriate adopted calendar of filing and meeting dates for the Planning Commission.
B.
Application: The petitioner shall submit an application for Site Development Plan review, an affidavit and consent of property owner (if the property owner is someone other than the petitioner), a deed for the property involved, the required filing fee, and required supportive information to the Chief Building Inspector. Supportive information shall include, but not be limited to the following:
1.
A location map showing and clearly identifying the subject property and showing all land within one (1) mile of the subject property. The location map should identify the current zoning and use of all property within one (1) mile of the subject property.
2.
A property survey showing all existing structures, topography, trees with a diameter measured at chest height of eight (8) inches or greater, floodplain and floodway boundaries (including elevations), rights-of-way, easements, building setback lines, drainage areas, pipes, known tiles, structures, utility services, historic structures, and road accesses.
3.
A site plan, drawn to scale and bearing the seal of a professional engineer or land surveyor clearly showing all aspects of the property and all features relevant to the Site Development Plan, including:
a.
All proposed setbacks, buffer yards, structure heights, and lot coverage calculations;
b.
All proposed buildings, structures, fences or walls, areas of outdoor storage, permanent dumpsters, and other improvements;
c.
All proposed locations and dimensions of road accesses, interior drives, parking lots, loading docks or areas, sight visibility triangles, and interior sidewalks (all public road access shall be subject to the approval of the "Name of Jurisdiction" Board of Commissioners);
d.
All proposed open spaces;
e.
All proposed locations and capacities of public and private utilities (all septic systems shall be subject to the approval of the "Name of Jurisdiction" Health Department, all public sewer connections shall be subject to the approval of the appropriate public service provider);
f.
All proposed public improvements including sidewalks, street trees, and right-of-way dedications; and
g.
All proposed locations for temporary uses, such as seasonal sales areas.
4.
A landscaping plan, drawn to scale and bearing the seal of a registered landscape architect, architect, engineer, or surveyor showing all required and proposed landscaping in the site interior, in and adjacent to parking areas, in buffer yards, and street trees. The landscaping plan shall include the identification of the height of the plantings from ground level at the time of installation and the species proposed to be used to meet the requirements of this Code.
5.
A site drainage plan bearing the seal of a professional architect engineer or land surveyor including all calculations required by the Engineering Director. All Site Development Plans shall be subject to the approval of the Engineering Director.
6.
A site construction plan showing proposed erosion control measures, the location of any proposed construction trailer and worker parking, the location, height, and dimensions of any temporary construction-related signage, any temporary site accesses to be used during construction, any temporary utility connections, the location of any stockpiles of dirt, construction materials, and construction waste dumpsters or storage areas.
7.
A detailed statement of the characteristics and operation of the development, including the one hundred sixty (160) population densities, presence of any adult uses, and number of potential employees. The detail statement shall include any written commitments being made regarding the Site Development Plan.
