Chapter 18 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; boards and commissions, § 2-91 et seq.; emergency services, ch. 22.
State Law reference— Authority to adopt temporary or experimental traffic regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(19); Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 18-1—18-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
State Law reference— Emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 18-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions other than those functions for which military forces or state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, protection against the effects of radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection, shelter, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian population, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out the foregoing functions.
(Res. of 5-1-90, § I)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3.
Sec. 18-32. - Office of director.
In agreement with the governing officials of the cities within the county, there is hereby established the Colquitt County Emergency Management Agency. The chairman of the board of commissioners with concurrence of the mayors of cities within the county, shall nominate for appointment by the governor, a director of emergency management for the entire county. When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the county and cities therein on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
To assist county and city officials in organizing county and city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
To develop, in conjunction with county and city departments the county plan for emergency functions. Such plan will be in consonance with the state natural disaster operations plan and nuclear emergency operations plan, and shall be submitted to the board of commissioners and the cities therein for approval, and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
To maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day to day administration for the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
To submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.
(6)
To obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operating center.
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of an emergency, and under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Res. of 5-1-90, § II)
State Law reference— Director generally, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 18-33. - Agency organization.
(a)
The county emergency management agency shall be established around existing county and city departments and the emergency functions are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department/agency Functions*
(1) Chairman of the board of commissioners
Mayors of cities Direction and control
(2) Sheriff's office
Police department Communications and warning
Police services
Evacuation
(3) Emergency management agency Public information
State military support
Training
Preliminary damage
Assessment and reporting
Public property assistance
Attack preparedness
Specific hazards
(4) Fire department Search, rescue and recovery
Fire services
Hazardous materials
Radiological protection
(5) Public works Engineering
Petroleum and solid fuel
Services, utilities
(6) School superintendent Transportation services
Food services
(7) Health department and Colquitt Regional
Medical Center Health and medical services
(8) County clerk's office Administrative services
Resources management
(9) Department of family and children services Social services
Shelter and temporary housing
  * As appropriate to the local organization, these functions can be assigned to existing departments or may be separate. Functions should be assigned consistent with the local emergency operations plan.
(b)
Heads of departments listed above are responsible for developing appropriate annexes to the local emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local official for approval.
(Res. of 5-1-90, § III)
Sec. 18-34. - Powers during an emergency or disaster.
Upon a manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the chairman of the board of commissioners, jointly with the mayors of the affected cities, or in their absences their legally appointed successors to be named may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources;
(2)
Seize or take for temporary use, any private property of the protection of the public;
(3)
Sell, lend, give, or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies;
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Res. of 5-1-90, § IV)
State Law reference— Local organization required, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 18-35. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the county and cities therein, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county and city officers and employees.
(Res. of 5-1-90, § V)
Sec. 18-36. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this article, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this article, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable for committing a misdemeanor.
(Res. of 5-1-90, § VI)
Sec. 18-37. - Suspension of portions of the Code of Ordinances and other formalities during a state of emergency.
(a)
Authority to waive procedures and fee structures.
(1)
Meetings. Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting the state or the United States, the affairs and business of the county may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of the county, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of county, all actions taken by the local governing body shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the county. Such meetings may be called by the presiding officer or any two members of the governing body without regard to or compliance with time-consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
(2)
Purchasing and public works contracts. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest, responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract as required by the county purchasing policies and procedures; provided, however, that any public works contract entered into pursuant to this subsection shall be entered on the minutes of the county as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein.
(3)
Code enforcement. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of the Code of Ordinances of the county, or any portion thereof, where:
a.
The emergency or disaster is of such nature that immediate action outside the Code is required;
b.
Such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; and
c.
Such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(4)
Fees. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the area impacted by the disaster or emergency.
(5)
Temporary dwellings. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may issue temporary mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired, provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the county health department and county compliance department. The temporary permit shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the governing authority or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period for an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
(b)
Definitions.
Fees. Any fee or rate charged by the county for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, temporary land use permits, and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and clean up of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. "Fees" shall not include those fees collected by the county on behalf of the federal or state government or those fees charged by the county pursuant to a federal or state statute or regulation.
State of emergency. The term "state of emergency" is defined, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(7), means the condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency in any part of the state is of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant extraordinary assistance by the state to supplement the efforts and available resources of several localities and relief organizations in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period. The term "subsequent recovery period" is defined as that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor unless extended by official action of the governing authority of the county.
Temporary dwelling. Any mobile or easily movable home, trailer, recreational vehicle or structure not otherwise permitted by the zoning regulations in a particular zoning district.
(Ord. No. 2004-5, §§ 1, 2, 11-18-04)
Sec. 18-38. - Registration of building and repair services during a state of emergency.
(a)
Building contractor registration required. No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall engage in, undertake or carry on any business in whole or in part within the unincorporated areas of the county, consisting of or relating to building, constructing, repairing, renovating or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto without having registered the name of the business with the governing authority of the county and having paid fees as provided by this section.
(b)
Definitions.
Building contractor. As used in this section, the word or term "building contractor" shall mean any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity engaging in, undertaking or carrying on any business consisting of or relating to building construction, repair, renovation or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto.
Doing business. Any building contractor shall be deemed to be "doing business" subject to the requirements of this section if:
(1)
He/she has or operates an office, agency, project site or place of business located in the unincorporated areas of the county, whether permanently, temporarily, periodically, or otherwise, that provides activities in the unincorporated areas of the county expressly including, but not limited to the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto; or
(2)
He/she performs activities or services in the unincorporated areas of the county expressly including but not limited to the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto regardless of the location of the principal office.
State of emergency. The term "state of emergency" is defined, pursuant to the O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(7), means the condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency in any part of the state is of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant extraordinary assistance by the state to supplement the efforts and available resources of several localities and relief organizations in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period. The term "subsequent recovery period" is defined as that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor unless extended by official action of the governing authority of the county.
(c)
Registration; certification. All building contractors doing business or proposing to do business in the unincorporated areas of the county during a state of emergency or the subsequent recovery period shall register and file applications with the clerk of the governing authority of the county or such other person designated by the governing authority at the county courthouse or such other place or places designated by the county. The building contractor shall, under oath, provide the county governing authority with a statement describing the general nature of the business to be conducted and give true and correct information as may be called for on the registration form, application or certificate provided by the county.
(d)
Registration fees. Building contractor registration fees are hereby fixed under the terms and conditions of this section at $50.00 per annum. Registration fees shall be paid in full at the time of issuance of the registration certificate.
(e)
Penalties. Any building contractor required by this section to pay a registration fee who engages in business without first registering and receiving a registration certification from the county as required, shall be in violation of this section. Violation of this section, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation and/or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days. Each day a building contractor does business in the unincorporated areas of the county without complying with this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(f)
Transferability. Each certificate issued under this section is granted to, and shall be accepted by, the building contractor under the condition that the same is not transferable and after issuance no such certification shall be transferred by the county or the building contractor to another individual or entity.
(g)
Display of registration certification. Each certification issued hereunder shall be posted conspicuously by the building contractor in the place of business of the building contractor or shall be carried on his person or vehicle used in such business. Such certification shall be exhibited to any authorized enforcement officer when so requested.
(h)
Revocation; suspension. Each certification granted under this section is a mere permit to engage in the business only so long as said business is conducted in a lawful manner. The county governing authority hereby reserves the right to revoke or suspend any certification granted hereunder, if the building contractor, or the building contractor's agent or employee acting within the scope of his employment, violates this section or any other county, state or federal law. If after issuance of a certificate, the county desires to revoke such certification, written notice thereof shall be given to the building contractor, which notice shall specify the violation with which the building contractor is charged and a date, time and place at which a hearing shall be held with regard to the violation. The building contractor shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing, shall have the right to be represented by counsel, and shall have the right to introduce and submit evidence in opposition to such revocation.
(Ord. No. 2004-6, §§ 1—8, 11-18-04)
Sec. 18-39. - Overcharging for goods, materials, services and housing during a state of emergency prohibited.
(a)
Overcharging prohibited. In order to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property, it shall be unlawful during the duration of a state of emergency or subsequent recovery period in which the county has been designated as a disaster area, for any person, firm, or corporation located or doing business in the county to overcharge for any goods, materials, services or housing sold within the county.
(b)
Definitions.
Overcharging. The term "overcharging" is defined as charging prices for goods, materials, services, or housing which are substantially in excess of the customary charges or in applicable cases substantially in excess of the supplier's or provider's costs for such goods, materials, services or housing. The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the goods, materials, services, or housing was offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in costs to the supplier directly attributable to higher costs of materials, supplies, and labor costs resulting from the emergency.
State of emergency. The term "state of emergency" is defined, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(7), means the condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency in any part of the state is of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant extraordinary assistance by the state to supplement the efforts and available resources of several localities and relief organizations in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period. The term "subsequent recovery period" is defined as that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor unless extended by official action of the governing authority of the county.
(c)
Penalties. Violation of the provisions of this section upon conviction shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each sale shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 2004-7, §§ 1—3, 11-18-04)
Sec. 18-40. - Imposition of curfews during times of emergency or disaster.
(a)
Institution of curfew.
(1)
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, its designee or the emergency interim successor may adopt a resolution instituting a curfew when it is determined necessary to protect and safeguard the people and property of the county.
(2)
All of the territory of the unincorporated county shall be subject to the terms of the curfew, unless otherwise specified in the resolution.
(3)
The resolution instituting the curfew shall include the dates and hours that the curfew shall be in effect.
(b)
Definitions.
Curfew. A "curfew" is a regulation requiring the withdrawal from any person, not otherwise exempt from this section, from appearing in certain public areas during specified hours.
Exempt individuals. Unless otherwise specified in the resolution implementing the curfew, "exempt individuals" include those individuals engaged in the provision of designated, essential services, such as fire, law enforcement, emergency medical services and hospital services, military services, utility emergency repairs. The resolution may, in the discretion of the governing authority, also exempt regular employees of local industries traveling to and from their jobs with appropriate identification, news media employees, building and repair contractors, properly registered according to section 18-38, performing activities related to construction, repair, renovation or improvement of buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster or emergency.
State of emergency. The term "state of emergency" is defined, pursuant to the O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(7), means the condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency in any part of the state is of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant extraordinary assistance by the state to supplement the efforts and available resources of several localities and relief organizations in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
(c)
Prohibition. It shall be prohibited for any person, other than exempt individuals, to appear in public in the territory subject to the curfew, including but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, parks, public buildings or any other public places in all or a delineated part of unincorporated the county during the stated hours of the curfew.
(d)
Penalties. Any individual violating this section, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both.
(Ord. No. 2004-8, §§ 1—4, 11-18-04)
