ARTICLE II. - LOCAL CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS
DIVISION 2. - MOULTRIE-COLQUITT COUNTY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1960 Ga. Laws, page 1402, which amended the 1945 Constitution of the State of Georgia by providing for the Moultrie-Colquitt County Development Authority. Such local constitutional amendment was continued in force and effect by 1985 Ga. Laws, page 4745. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code cross reference—Planning and development, ch. 50.
State Law reference— Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.; Georgia Development Authority Act, O.C.G.A. § 50-10-1 et seq.

Sec. 1. - Constitution amended.
Article VII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution [of 1945] is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following.
(1960 Ga. Laws, p. 1402, § 1)
Sec. 2. - Created.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic, to be known as the Moultrie-Colquitt County Development Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of the City of Moultrie and the County of Colquitt and a public corporation which in this amendment [article] shall hereafter be referred to as the "Authority."
(1960 Ga. Laws, p. 1402, § 1A)
Sec. 3. - Purpose.
This amendment [article] is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare of the City of Moultrie and Colquitt County and their citizens, industry, agriculture and trade therein, and making long-range plans for such development and expansion and to authorize the use of public funds of the City of Moultrie and Colquitt County for such purposes, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the Authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of this purpose.
(1960 Ga. Laws, p. 1402, § 1B)
Sec. 4. - Members.
The Authority shall be composed of eleven (11) members, four (4) of whom shall be appointed by the governing authority of the City of Moultrie, four (4) of whom shall be appointed by the governing authority of the County of Colquitt, and the remaining three (3) members shall be appointed by the other eight (8) members. The governing authority of the City and the County respectively shall in the first appointments appoint two (2) of such members for terms of two (2) years, and two (2) such members for terms of one year. Thereafter, all members appointed by the two (2) governing authorities shall be for two (2) year terms. The remaining three (3) members shall always be appointed for one year terms. The first members shall be appointed prior to January 1, 1961, and they shall take office on that date. After the first appointments of the three (3) remaining members, they shall always be appointed by January 15 of each year after the new members appointed by the governing authorities have taken office on the first day of January. All members shall hold office until their successors are appointed. Members shall be eligible to succeed themselves in office. Vacancies shall be filled by the appointing authority. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum and may act for the Authority in any manner. No vacancy shall impair the power of the authority to act.
(1960 Ga. Laws, p. 1402, § 1C)
Sec. 5. - Tax exemption.
The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the Authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of the City of Moultrie and Colquitt County.
(1960 Ga. Laws, p. 1402, § 1D)
Sec. 6. - Powers.
The powers of the Authority shall include but not be limited to, the power:
(1)
To buy, acquire, develop, improve, own, operate, maintain, sell, lease as lessor and lessee, and mortgage land, buildings and property of all kinds within the limits of the City of Moultrie or Colquitt County;
(2)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts;
(3)
To grant, loan and lease any of its funds and property to private persons and corporations promising to operate any industrial plant or establishment within the City of Moultrie or Colquitt County which in the judgment of the Authority will be of benefit to the people of said city and county. The provisions of this clause shall not be construed to limit any other powers of the Authority;
(4)
To borrow money and to issue notes, bonds and revenue certificates therefor and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor;
(5)
To contract with the City of Moultrie, Colquitt County and other political subdivisions and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
(6)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporations except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the Authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and by-laws and regulations for the conduct and management of the Authority;
(7)
To encourage and promote the expansion of industry, agriculture, trade and commerce in Colquitt County, and to make long range plans therefor;
(8)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(9)
To designate officers to sign and act for the Authority generally or in any specific matter;
(10)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the Authority as herein stated.
(1960 Ga. Laws, p. 1402, § 1E; 1964 Ex. Sess. Ga. Laws, p. 403, § 1)
Sec. 7. - Debt.
The Authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against the State of Georgia or the City of Moultrie or Colquitt County.
(1960 Ga. Laws, p. 1402, § 1F)
Sec. 8. - Tort immunity and liability for contractual obligations.
The Authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the State of Georgia and the officers, agents and employees of the Authority when in performance of the work of the Authority, shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of the State of Georgia when in performance of their public duties or work of the State. The Authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligation of the Authority.
(1960 Ga. Laws, p. 1402, § 1G)
Sec. 9. - Compensation of members.
The members of the Authority shall receive no compensation for their services to the Authority.
(1960 Ga. Laws, p. 1402, § 1H)
Sec. 10. - Bonds.
The Authority is hereby authorized to issue Revenue Bonds to carry out the purposes of this amendment. Revenue Bonds so issued shall be paid from the income of the Authority from whatever sources received including appropriations of public funds made to it. Such Revenue Bonds may be authorized by resolutions of the Moultrie-Colquitt County Development Authority which may be adopted at a regular or special meeting by a majority vote of the members of said Authority. Said Authority in determining the cost of any undertaking for which Revenue Bonds are to be issued may include all costs relative to the issuance thereof as well as engineering, inspection, fiscal and legal expenses, and interest estimated to accrue during the construction period, and for six months thereafter and such bonds shall bear such date or dates, mature at such time or times, not exceeding thirty years from their respective dates, bear interest at such rate or rates not exceeding eight percent per annum, and may be in such denominations and may carry such registration privileges and be subject to redemption and may contain such terms, covenants, assignments and conditions as the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds may provide. All bonds and the interest thereon so issued by said Authority are hereby declared to be nontaxable for any and all purposes. Such bonds issued by the said Authority shall be validated in the Superior Court of Colquitt County in the same manner as revenue bonds of municipalities are validated as provided in Code Sections 87-815 et seq. of the Code of Georgia. In the event no bill of exceptions shall be filed within the time prescribed by law, or if filed, the judgment shall be affirmed by the Supreme Court or the Court of Appeals, the judgment of the Superior Court, confirming and validating the issuance of such bonds, shall be forever conclusive as to the validity of said bonds and the security therefor against said Authority. In addition, the Authority is hereby authorized to borrow funds from financial institutions at a rate of interest not to exceed eight percent per annum.
(1960 Ga. Laws, p. 1402, § 1F; 1964 Ex. Sess. Ga. Laws, p. 403, § 1; 1976 Ga. Laws, p. 1773, § 1)
Sec. 11. - Taxation.
The governing authority of the City of Moultrie is authorized to levy a tax not exceeding one mill per dollar of assessed valuation for the purposes of the Authority. The governing authority of the County of Colquitt is authorized to levy a tax not exceeding one mill per dollar of assessed valuation for the purposes of the Authority.
(1960 Ga. Laws, p. 1402, § 1J)
Sec. 12. - Levy and sale of property.
The property of the Authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process except such property, income or funds as may be pledged, assigned, mortgaged or conveyed to secure an obligation of the Authority, and any such property, funds or income may be sold under legal process or under any power granted by the Authority to enforce payment of the obligation.
(1960 Ga. Laws, p. 1402, § 1K)
Sec. 13. - Effective date.
This amendment [article] shall be effective immediately upon its ratification.
(1960 Ga. Laws, p. 1402, § 1L)
Sec. 14. - Other powers.
The General Assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the Authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the Authority. The Authority shall be a body corporate and politic, and the scope of its operation shall be limited to the territory embraced within Colquitt County. The General Assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the Authority nor the scope of its operation beyond such limits.
(1960 Ga. Laws, p. 1402, § 1M; 1964 Ex. Sess. Ga. Laws, p. 403, § 1)
Sec. 15. - Limitations on debt.
There shall be no limitations upon the amount of debt which the Authority may incur, but no debt created by the Authority shall be a debt of the City of Moultrie, Colquitt County or the State of Georgia.
(1960 Ga. Laws, p. 1402, § 1N)
DIVISION 3. - OCCUPATION TAXES[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1958 Ga. Laws, page 567, which amended the 1945 Constitution of the State of Georgia by providing for the imposition of occupation taxes by Colquitt County. Such local constitutional amendment was continued in force and effect by 1985 Ga. Laws, page 4433. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code cross references—Business regulations, ch. 14; taxation, ch. 62.
State Law reference— Business and occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 et seq.

Sec. 1. - Constitution amended.
Article VII, Section IV, Paragraph I (Ga. Code Ann. Sec. 2-5701) of the Constitution of the State of Georgia [1983 Const., Art. IX, § IV, ¶ I] be amended by adding thereto the following new paragraph.
The Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Colquitt County, Georgia, shall have the right and power, for regulatory and revenue purposes to levy, assess, and collect license fees and occupational taxes from any persons, firms or corporations (except those subject to regulation by the State Public Service Commission) who may maintain a place of business or who may in any manner engage in any type of business, including the operation of taxicabs, in any area of Colquitt County outside the incorporated limits of municipalities; and in levying and assessing such license fees and occupational taxes, the board of commissioners shall have the right and power to classify businesses and to assess different license fees and taxes against different classes of business. To provide for the public welfare, health and security of the people of Colquitt County, the board of commissioners of roads and revenues shall have the right to regulate and exercise police powers over any businesses operated within the unincorporated areas of said county (except those subject to regulation by the State Public Service Commission) and to prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary to effectuate the powers herein granted, including the right to enforce payment of the license fees and occupational taxes by the issuance and levy of executions, and to provide that a violation of any such regulations adopted by the board of commissioners of roads and revenues shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction thereof as prescribed by the general laws of the State of Georgia. No further enabling legislation by the General Assembly of Georgia shall be necessary for the exercise of the powers herein granted, but the General Assembly of Georgia may at any time modify, alter, restrict and limit the powers herein granted, and may at any time prescribe the manner and means by which the powers may be exercised by said board of commissioners.
