DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 13-173. - Privy, water closet—Connection to city systems required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, use, maintain, rent or lease to others, or permit to be used or maintained by others, any privy or water closet within the city where the premises on which such privy or water closet is located abut on that part of any street, alley or other place in which is located a sanitary sewer and a city water main or pipe, unless such privy or water closet is so connected with the water system of the city and the sewer as to flush the sewage from such privy or water closet into such sewer.
(Ord. of 4-19-49, § 1)
Sec. 13-174. - Same—Attachment to building required.
Privies and water closets hereafter constructed in the city shall be located in or attached to the house or building by whose occupants the privy or water closet is used.
(Ord. of 4-19-49, § 2)
Sec. 13-175. - Same—Subsequent availability; time for connecting.
Where sewers and the city water system are not available, but are hereafter made available, the provisions of section 13-173 hereof shall be complied with not later than the time allowed by the health officer in the official notice provided for in the following section hereof.
(Ord. of 4-14-49, § 4; Ord. No. 68-226, § 1, 9-16-68)
Sec. 13-176. - Same—Notice; time; evidence.
The commissioner of health of Muscogee County, or his assistants, shall serve written notice on any person charged with a violation of this division, relating to connecting of privies and water closets to the city sewer and water systems, and to the buildings, such notice to state that there is a sewer in the street, alley or place upon which the premises abut, and that the water system of the city is available.
In the case of a nonresident of Muscogee County, service by sending such notice by registered mail to his last known address shall be sufficient.
In cases where the existing septic tank or other disposal systems being used are functioning in such manner as not to cause continuous, insanitary conditions or nuisances, such notice shall be served at least 60 days before the issuance of any summons for violation of section 13-173 hereof; provided, no prosecution shall fail for the want of such written notice where it appears from other evidence that the defendant had actual notice, at least 60 days prior to such summons, that there was a sewer in the street, alley, or place upon which the premises abut and that the water system of the city was available.
In cases where septic tank or any other type systems being used have failed and evidence indicates that a continuous insanitary condition, nuisance, or health hazards exist, such notice shall allow only minimum reasonable time for connection to the sewer before the issuance of any summons for violations of section 13-173 hereof; provided further that such notice shall indicate the nature and extent of the existing condition caused by the failure of the sewage disposal system.
(Ord. of 4-19-49, § 6; Ord. No. 68-226, §§ 2, 3, 9-16-68)
Sec. 13-177. - Same—Multi-violations.
Where a person constructs, uses, maintains, rents or leases to others, or permits to be used or maintained by others, one or more houses, buildings, or premises in violation of section 13-173 hereof, a separate violation shall exist as to each such house, building or premises. Each day's continuance of a violation of such section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 4-19-49, § 6)
Sec. 13-178. - Wash-racks definition.
The term "wash-rack", as used in this division, shall include any wash-rack, stand or place connected with or draining into a public sewer in the city, where automobiles or other vehicles are washed for compensation, or where such automobile or other vehicle wash-rack, stand or place is maintained or used in connection with any licensed automobile garage, automobile sales business, repair shop, filling station, or other licensed business.
(Ord. of 3-27-28, § 1)
Sec. 13-179. - Same—Construction requirements.
It shall be unlawful to construct, maintain or use any such wash-rack, as defined in the preceding section, unless the same complies with the following specifications:
(1)
Each wash-rack or stand shall be equipped with a catch basin constructed of concrete, or of brick masonry plastered inside so as to be impervious to water; (2) such catch basin shall have a horizontal area of not less than nine square feet at any horizontal section below the surface of the water impounded therein; (3) the bottom of such catch basin shall be not less than three feet and six inches below the outlet opening, so as effectively to retain the mud and sand washed from automobiles or other vehicles; (4) the outlet of such catch basin shall be equipped either with a trap formed with a cast-iron sanitary tee, not less than four inches by four inches by four inches, with a cleanout plug in the end of the horizontal part of such tee, or with a trap formed by using a one-quarter bend, of not less than six inches diameter, recessed in the side wall of the catch basin.
(Ord. of 3-27-28, § 2)
Sec. 13-180. - Same—Removal of accumulated mud, sand, etc.
All mud, sand or other material accumulating in such catch basin shall be removed therefrom before it fills to a point within six inches of the outlet opening at the bottom of the trap; and any person failing so to remove such mud, sand or other material, or who shall maintain or use a wash-rack in which the catch basin has been allowed to fill within six inches of the outlet opening at the bottom of the trap, shall be subject to the punishment hereinafter provided.
(Ord. of 3-27-28, § 3)
Sec. 13-181. - Tapping—Permissions required.
No person shall tap any main sewer in the city or in any manner connect any waste or waterpipe, drain or sewer for any purpose without the consent of the city manager to tap or connect with such sewer.
(Code 1914, § 709)
Sec. 13-182. - Same—At owner's expense; competent work.
No permission to tap or connect with any sewer shall be granted to any person unless the connection shall be made at the expense of the person obtaining such permission, and unless the work is done under the supervision of a competent mechanic and without expense to the city.
(Code 1914, § 710)
Secs. 13-183—13-200. - Reserved.
