Chapter 18 - STREETS AND SIDEWALKS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Solicitations and peddling in the streets, § 16-1 et seq.; public demonstrations, Ch. 17B; traffic generally, Ch. 20.
Note— See City of Columbus vs. Ogletree, 102 Ga. 293, 29 SE 749, for holding reversing earlier case between the same parties, and holding that where the duties of the police embrace the detection of defective sidewalks, notice of such defect to the police constitutes notice to the city. See Burrus vs. City of Columbus, 105 Ga. 42, 31 SE 124, for holding that no injunction will lie against the railroad for laying tracks on a city street owned by the state.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 18-1. - Street map—Adoption; effect.
That certain map in the office of the department of engineering, entitled in the right-hand lower corner thereof "Official Street Map, Consolidated Government of Columbus, Georgia," is hereby adopted as the official street map for Columbus - Muscogee County, Georgia; the various streets, avenues, roads, drives and alleys named and shown on said map shall be officially known by said names and shall constitute the public streets, avenues, roads, drives and alleys of the Consolidated Government of Columbus, Georgia.
The "Official Street Map, Consolidated Government of Columbus, Georgia" shall be periodically amended by the department of engineering to include the addition of new streets accepted and/or the deletion of existing streets as approved by Columbus Council actions.
(Ord. of 8-2-49, § 1; Ord. No. 09-57, § I, 11-24-09)
Sec. 18-2. - Official street map—Where displayed.
A copy of the official street map of the Consolidated Government of Columbus, Georgia shall be kept and displayed in the office of the department of engineering.
(Ord. of 8-2-49, § 2; Ord. No. 09-57, § II, 11-24-09)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 09-57, § II, adopted Nov. 24, 2009, changed the title of § 18-2 from Same—Where displayed; signing to official street map—Where displayed.
Sec. 18-2.1. - Street use map.
(a)
Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions are hereby established:
COLLECTOR STREET. A street providing for traffic movement by the major arterials and local streets and direct access to abutting property.
LIMITED ACCESS STREET. A street providing for traffic movement for expeditious movement for large volumes of through traffic between areas and across the city and not intended to provide land access service.
MAJOR ARTERIAL STREET. A street that provides for through traffic movement between areas and across the city and direct access to abutting property; subject to necessary control of entrances, exits and curb use.
(b)
Adoption of street use map.* There is hereby adopted and established a new official street use map of the city, said map having been approved by the mapped streets committee of the City of Columbus on May 25, 1982. Said map is attached to Ordinance No. 82-45 and by this reference made a part of this paragraph of this section. [2]
(c)
Streets covered in green. The streets that are covered in green on said map hereto attached are hereby ordained to be major arterial streets.
(d)
Streets covered in yellow. The streets that are covered in yellow on said map hereto attached are hereby ordained to be collector streets.
(e)
Streets covered in orange. The streets that are covered in orange on said map hereto attached are hereby ordained to be limited access streets.
(f)
Minimum right-of-way widths. Major arterial streets as defined in subsection (a) hereof shall have a minimum right-of-way width of 120 feet, the center line of which shall be the center line of said streets as the same appear upon the official existing street use map of the City of Columbus.
Collector streets shall have a minimum right-of-way width of 80 feet, the center line of which shall be the center line of said streets as the same appear upon the official existing street use map of the City of Columbus.
(g)
Building permits. No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure or part thereof on any land located on said mapped streets. In the event permission is granted by the city commission for the issuance of a building permit, application for such permit shall be made within 100 days after the issuance of such permission and not thereafter.
(h)
Section 69-1225 adopted by reference. The provisions of section 69-1225 of the Code of Georgia Annotated are hereby adopted by reference as a part hereof.
(i)
Arterial and collector streets enumerated. The major arterial streets and collector streets color-coded on the official street use map dated June, 1982, are hereby enumerated and set forth in the schedule on file in the office of the clerk of council.
(Ord. No. 68-196, §§ 1—5, 8-19-68; Ord. No. 69-1, § 1, 1-13-69; Ord. No. 69-98, § 1, 6-9-69; Ord. No. 70-199, §§ 1—4, 8-10-70; Ord. No. 82-45, §§ 1, 2, 6-17-82)
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Note— The street use map is not included herein.

Sec. 18-2.2. - Legal notice required for closing of streets or roadways.
(a)
Whenever it is necessary for any purpose, to close a street or roadway in Columbus temporarily, other than in cases of emergency, the public shall be notified by the posting of a notice on the official web-site of the consolidated government as well as at a prominent location in an administrative office building of the consolidated government designated by the clerk of council. The notice shall be posted at least three days prior to the closing of such street or roadway and shall state the date on which such street or roadway closed and the duration of time such street or roadway shall be closed.
(b)
Persons, firms, business or other organizations that are not a part of the consolidated government desiring the temporary closure of a public street or right-of way shall make application to the chief of police on such form as he may designate for such purpose at least 30 days prior to the date requested for the temporary closure. The chief of police shall obtain or cause to be obtained all data required on the application form. After consultation with the traffic engineer, the chief of police shall approve or deny the application and shall sign and date his approval or denial. The chief of police or his designee shall notify the applicant and the clerk of council of his determination in writing.
(c)
If the application is denied, the applicant may within 15 days of the denial date notify the clerk of council of applicant's desire to appeal the denial to council and the clerk shall place the request on the agenda for the next regular council meeting, where the council will review the application and determine whether to affirm, modify or reverse the determination of the chief of police. The clerk of council shall as soon as practical thereafter, notify the applicant in writing of the council's determination.
(d)
Upon approval of an application by the chief of police or Columbus Council, the clerk of council shall, as soon as practical, notify the following; Columbus Fire and EMS department, public works department, the traffic engineer, the department of transportation (METRA), the 911 center, and the city manager. The clerk shall also post the official notices required by subsection (a) above.
(Ord. No. 72-210, § 1, 10-17-72; Ord. No. 19-067, § 1, 12-10-19)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 72-210, § 1, did not amend this Code, hence inclusion herein as § 18-2.2 was at the discretion of the editors.
Sec. 18-2.3. - Method of payment for street improvements.
(a)
The payment of assessments for street improvements, whether the same be done by ordinance passed upon petition or ordinance without petition, shall be the same. The amount of each assessment shall be due upon the date set by the council; provided that the owner of any real estate assessed shall have the option of paying the assessment in one cash payment or one-tenth cash, and the balance in nine equal annual installments with interest at seven percent payable annually. Should any assessment or installment thereof become due and remain unpaid for a period of 30 days, the treasurer of the city shall issue execution against the parcel of land assessed for the total amount of said assessment unpaid, which execution shall be levied and enforced as provided by law.
(b)
The provisions hereof shall be applicable to all street improvement ordinances heretofore or hereafter adopted by council.
(Ord. No. 74-168, §§ 1, 2, 10-29-74)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 74-168, §§ 1, 2, being nonamendatory of this Code, has been included herein as § 18-2.3 at the discretion of the editors.
Sec. 18-3. - Acceptance of rights-of-way.
In all cases where rights-of-way for street or road purposes are deeded to Columbus, Georgia, by either private landowners or governmental entities or any other entities, acceptance of such rights-of-way shall be consummated only by written resolution of the Council of Columbus; and no public labor or public funds shall be expended for the construction of streets or roads on such rights-of-way prior to the required formal acceptance by the Columbus council, nor shall any public official make a commitment for the future expenditure of such public funds or the future use of public labor prior to such acceptance.
(Ord. No. 83-80, § 1, 9-27-83)
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 83-80, enacted Sept. 27, 1983, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, codification of the substantive provisions of § 1 of said ordinance as § 18-3 is at the discretion of the editor.
Secs. 18-4—18-8. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 18-4, relative to leading or riding animals on sidewalks and breaking colts upon streets, and §§ 18-5—18-8, pertaining to appurtenances, were repealed by Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, enacted May 23, 1978. Said sections were derived from Code 1914, §§ 561—563, 704, 766.
Sec. 18-9. - Damaging or defacing property—Removing barriers.
It shall be unlawful for any person to damage or deface any street, sidewalk or city right-of-way within the city; or to use a closed portion of a street, sidewalk or city right-of-way for any purpose without proper authority; or for any person (except public employees charged with the duty) to move any obstruction officially placed as a barrier.
(Ord. of 3-30-36, § 1; Ord. No. 87-174, 12-22-87)
Cross reference— Offenses of injury to property, §§ 14-37—14-40; barricades on utility cut projects, § 18-64.
Sec. 18-10. - Same—Lamps.
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully break or injure any lamp or any part thereof, whether public or private property, already set, or which may hereafter be set up, for the purpose of lighting any of the streets or alleys or any part thereof in the city or extinguish any such lamp or remove the burner or bulb therefrom, or who shall knock down or remove any lamp or lamp post from the place where it is fixed.
(Code 1914, § 775)
Sec. 18-10.1. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 02-85, § I, adopted August 6, 2002, deleted former § 18-10.1, which pertained to driveways, erection, content, and fees for markers, and derived from Ord. No. 70-84, §§ 1—3, adopted April 6, 1970.
Sec. 18-11. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, enacted May 23, 1978, repealed § 18-11, relative to enclosures for parks, derived from Code 1914, § 718.
Sec. 18-12. - Excavating—Removing dirt.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made any hole or excavation in any of the streets or haul or remove any dirt from any of the streets of this city, unless such person is duly authorized so to do by the superintendent of public works.
(Code 1914, § 765)
Sec. 18-13. - Same—Gas and water cut-offs and meters, to avoid digging, approval of by superintendent of public works.
All cut-offs of gas and water, also water meters on the service pipes of such gas and waterworks hereafter laid or put down in the city when laid on the streets shall be placed just within the outer edge of the sidewalk, next to the curbstone, and all such cut-offs and meters shall be properly and securely boxed in iron boxes in such a manner as may be approved by the superintendent of public works, so that the gas or water may be cut off and turned on to the customers without having to dig or displace the street or sidewalk or paving thereon. Such cut-offs and meters shall be put down under the approval of the superintendent of public works, and shall be of iron or metal approved by the superintendent of public works.
(Code 1914, § 627)
Sec. 18-14. - Construction of curb inlets in radius portion of intersections.
It shall be unlawful for any engineer, contractor, or person to construct storm water inlets in any curb that lies in the circular or radius portion of proposed or existing curbs and gutters that are parts of intersections where possible encroachment from loaded vehicular traffic may result. The city engineer shall be vested with authority to regulate and control such practices so as to minimize future damage to these structures from loaded vehicular traffic.
(Ord. No. 80-21, § 1, 3-4-80)
Sec. 18-15. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 78-19, § 1, enacted Feb. 28, 1978, repealed § 18-15, pertaining to littering, derived from Code 1914, § 685; Ord. No. 65-44, § 1, adopted May 3, 1965; and Ord. No. 72-155, § 1, adopted July 18, 1972.
Sec. 18-16. - Obstructing sidewalks—Merchandise; streets excepted.
No person shall deposit, place or put, or suffer to be deposited, placed or put by any person in his employment, any goods, wares, firewood, boxes or other obstructions on any sidewalk except while actually removing the same into or out of some building or enclosure; nor shall any person suspend or cause to be suspended over any sidewalks, any goods, wares or merchandise in such manner as to obstruct the free passage of such sidewalk or annoy any person in passing along such sidewalk.
(Code 1914, § 564, Ord. of 6-2-15)
Sec. 18-17. - Same—Lighting at night.
Wherever necessity requires the obstruction of a street or sidewalk, the person so placing or leaving such obstruction shall, during the time such obstruction remains, place or cause to be placed or hung up or fixed securely on a post or otherwise, a lamp or lantern with good and sufficient light therein at each of the two corners of such obstruction or in such manner as clearly and plainly to show the place and extent occupied by such materials or obstructions. The person so placing or leaving or causing to be placed or left, any such obstructions at any of the places aforesaid, or the owners or proprietors of such material, shall light or cause to be lighted such lamp or lantern at or before dark in the evening in such manner as to reasonably suppose it shall continue to burn until daylight and such lamp or lantern shall have a red color or covered so as to cast a red light; provided the provisions of this section shall in no case apply to vehicles of any kind in daily use; and, provided, further, this section shall in no case apply to tools, implements or materials, the property of the city, and temporarily placed in the streets or public ways by employees of the city while engaged in work on the streets or public ways.
(Code 1914, § 707)
Sec. 18-18. - Same—Keeping open; duty of police.
It shall be the duty of the chief of police and the policemen of the city to keep the streets and sidewalks thereof open and free for public passage and travel and for that purpose they may order the dispersal of any assemblage of persons that may be obstructing or interfering with such passage or travel. Any person refusing to obey such order or continuing such obstruction or interference shall be deemed guilty of obstructing the sidewalk or street and shall be liable to arrest.
(Code 1914, § 567)
Sec. 18-19. - Planting trees; species prohibited; substitution of other species.
It shall be unlawful for any person to plant or cause to be planted in or on any of the streets, avenues, alleys, lanes, sidewalks or cemeteries of the city any chinaberry, mulberry or sycamore trees, provided, any fine imposed hereunder may be remitted by the recorder when the person so fined shall remove the trees so planted and substitute therefor an oak or elm tree or any other tree not prohibited by this section, within the period to be named by the recorder.
(Code 1914, § 692)
Sec. 18-20. - Poles, etc.—Painting; keeping in repair.
All telegraph, telephone, electric light, fire alarm, telegraph or other poles now erected, or which may hereafter be erected, in the streets of the city, shall be painted and shall be kept in good repair. The superintendent of public works may at any time notify the owners to paint or repair the same, which shall be done within ten days from such notice.
(Code 1914, § 689)
Sec. 18-21. - Same—Utility—To display company name.
Telegraph, telephone, electric or other company using poles on the streets, alleys or other property of the city are required to mark each pole plainly, with the name or initial of such company stenciled on same.
(Code 1914, § 690)
Sec. 18-22. - Same—Same—Guy wires.
It shall be unlawful for any person who shall erect or maintain any pole line for carrying wires in the city to attach or maintain any guy wire at a less distance than 15 feet above the ground unless such guy wire shall be enclosed in an iron pipe or in a wooden box not less than three inches in diameter, or be bolted to a timber not less than three inches square with rounded corners.
(Code 1914, § 691)
Sec. 18-23. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 59-51, enacted September 14, 1959, and effective October 16, 1959, repealed § 18-23 in its entirety. Section 18-23 was derived from the Code of 1914, § 708 pertaining to sign construction and regulations of same.
Sec. 18-24. - Skating in roadways prohibited.
Skating or playing, and the use of skateboards, by persons of any age, in the roadways of the city that is, in those portions of the streets of the city used or intended for vehicular traffic, is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. of 2-3-31, § 1; Ord. No. 78-3, § 1, 1-10-78)
Sec. 18-25. - Skating on certain sidewalks prohibited.
Skating, and the use of skateboards, by persons of any age, is hereby prohibited on the sidewalks of the following named streets and parts of streets in the city: Front Avenue from Ninth Street to Fourteenth Street, Broadway from Ninth Street to Fifteenth Street, First Avenue from Tenth Street to Sixteenth Street, Dillingham Street, Warren Avenue, and Tenth, Eleventh, Twelfth, Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth Streets west of First Avenue.
(Ord. of 2-3-31, § 2; Ord. No. 78-3, § 2, 1-10-78)
Sec. 18-26. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 78-7, § 1, enacted June 18, 1978, repealed § 18-26 which prohibited skating and the use of skateboards on the sidewalks by persons 15 years of age or over. Said section was derived from Ord. of Feb. 3, 1931, § 3, and Ord. No. 78-3, § 3, adopted Jan. 10, 1978.
Sec. 18-27. - Crossing of driveways, roadways by skaters.
Outside of the prohibited district set forth in section 18-25 hereof, persons under 15 years of age, in their regular process of skating along the sidewalks, may cross private driveways, and may also cross the roadways at the regular street intersections.
(Ord. of 2-3-31, § 4)
Sec. 18-28. - Soiling clothes; carrying unclean objects.
No person shall use any handcart, or truck, or transport any ladder, piping, lumber, paint or whitewash brush and bucket or any other article or thing along and on the sidewalks and street crossings of the city, which tends to or is liable to damage the person or clothing of any person on the sidewalk or crossing, but all such articles or things shall be transported or carried in the streets and off the sidewalks and crossings.
(Code 1914, § 684)
Sec. 18-29. - Transacting business, obstructing—Not permitted.
(a)
It shall be unlawful, except as hereinafter set forth, to transact business in, or to do work in, or to obstruct any part of, the public streets, sidewalks or parkways in the city.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly place any articles or items in or on the city right-of-way that constitutes a nuisance or prevents the safe and free flow of traffic.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sit or stand in or on the public right-of-way so as to constitute a nuisance and prevent the safe and free flow of traffic. This provision shall not apply to those lawfully assembled for the purpose of public demonstration pursuant to this Code.
(Ord. of 5-4-43, § 1; Ord. No. 10-46, § 1, 9-14-10)
Sec. 18-30. - Same—Exclusion from provisions.
The provisions of the preceding section are not applicable to public utilities or the public authorities necessarily operating in, or doing work in, or using, the public streets, sidewalks or parkways; nor is it intended to prevent the customary use of the streets, sidewalks or parkways, for the delivery or receipt of merchandise or other goods or materials to or from places abutting such streets, sidewalks or parkways; nor to prevent the removal of objects and materials from the streets, sidewalks or parkways; nor to prevent the sale of newspapers on the public sidewalks; nor to prevent the peddling of produce and ice cream on the public streets; nor to prohibit the doing of any act in a case involving both necessity and pressing emergency; but the transaction of any business referred to in this section shall be subject to all ordinances of the city regulating the operation of such business.
(Ord. of 5-4-43, § 2)
Sec. 18-31. - Same—Exceptions, restrictions, by commission.
The commission of the city may, by resolution, make exceptions to the restrictions contained in sections 18-29, 18-30 and 18-31, for a limited period, when it appears that such action is necessary or in the interest of the general public welfare.
(Ord. of 5-4-43, § 3)
Sec. 18-32. - Same—Filling station—Installations.
No person shall install in the streets, parks or sidewalks of the city any station or equipment for dispensing air or water or selling gasoline or oil, nor install any station for air or water for automobiles, nor install equipment for conducting any other business in the streets or in the parks or on the sidewalks of the city.
(Ord. of 10-11-22, § 1)
Sec. 18-33. - Same—Same—Operation.
No person shall own, maintain, or operate any gasoline filling station, any air, oil or water station for automobiles, or to install or have in the streets or on the sidewalks or in the parks of the city any stand or equipment for the operation of any other business.
(Ord. of 10-11-22, § 2)
Sec. 18-34. - Same—Same—Removal.
All such businesses and the stands or equipment for the conduct thereof, as enumerated in the two preceding sections, so installed and operating shall be removed immediately from the streets, sidewalks and parks of the city.
(Ord. of 10-11-22, § 3)
Sec. 18-34.1. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 98-11, adopted Feb. 10, 1998, repealed § 18-34.1 in its entirety. Former § 18-34.1 pertained to signs on rights-of-way of public streets and thoroughfares; exceptions and derived from Ord. No. 80-84, § 3, adopted July 15, 1980; Ord. No. 80-104, § 1, adopted Aug. 19, 1980; Ord. No. 85-85, adopted July 30, 1985; Ord. No. 97-8, adopted Jan. 21, 1997; and Ord. No. 97-114, adopted Oct. 21, 1997.
ARTICLE II. - WORK PERFORMED ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— The title of Art. II, formerly "Curbing, paving, etc., requirements, " was changed by § 1 of Ord. No. 91-50, adopted June 18, 1991.
Note— See City of Columbus vs. Ogletree, 102 Ga. 293, 29 SE 749, for holding reversing earlier case between the same parties, and holding that city must maintain streets in annexed territory whether or not taxes from such territorial loan are sufficient to maintain such streets.

Sec. 18-35. - Permit—Required; scope.
(a)
Any person, contractors included, who desires to perform any work on publicly owned rights-of-way and/or properties to include, but not exclusive to, the installation, construction, modification, planting, and/or removal of walks, sidewalks, steps, driveways, streets, roadways, aprons, curbs, curbing, gutters, copings, retaining walls, drainage structures, irrigation systems, plantings, landscaping, or other related work shall make application with plans to the city and obtain approval and a permit therefor before any work is commenced.
(b)
The requirements as stipulated in the above preceding sentence shall also apply to any changes, alterations or additions to any existing installations on city or public property, rights-of-way or streets. This shall also apply to any alterations or cutting of existing curbing for driveways or driveway aprons on city or public property.
(Ord. of 8-30-55, § 1; Ord. No. 91-50, § 2, 6-18-91)
Sec. 18-36. - Same—Fee.
A nonrefundable fee payment will be submitted with the plans and application based on the following fee schedule:
(1)
General work, each, $50.00.
(2)
Urban/rural driveways, each, $50.00.
(Ord. of 8-30-55, § 3; Ord. No. 91-50, § 3, 6-18-91; Ord. No. 97-140, § 3, 12-16-97; Ord. No. 01-31, § I, 5-8-01; Ord. No. 06-101, § IV, 11-7-06)
Sec. 18-37. - Drawings and details; may be required.
When required by the city, the applicant for permit shall submit for approval all necessary drawings and details sufficient to indicate the nature and extent of work proposed.
(Ord. of 8-30-55, § 4)
Sec. 18-38. - Performance; by whom.
All installations or work on city or public property, of type stipulated in this article, shall be performed by a person holding the required business license. This will not apply to work performed by authorized city, county or state forces, or to authorized installations by a public utility company.
(Ord. of 8-30-55, § 2)
Sec. 18-39. - Materials, methods, specifications; exceptions.
The materials, methods of construction, details, specifications and other requirements for the various types of installations shall be in accordance with the standards of the city engineering department, and more specifically with the applicable provisions of the city's specifications referred to as "Division VIII, Detailed Specifications for Cement Concrete Curb, Cement Concrete Gutter, Combined Curb and Gutter of Cement Concrete, Granite Curb, Cement Concrete Sidewalks, and Cement Concrete Driveways."
Paving on public property other than of concrete is not permitted for walks, drives, driveways or aprons unless unusual circumstances occur, in which case special permission must be obtained from the city before work is begun.
(Ord. of 8-30-55, § 5.)
Sec. 18-40. - Grades, elevations, etc.; furnished by city; incidental work.
No work shall be started until approval of line, grade and elevations are obtained from the city. The city engineering department will provide the required line, grade, and elevations, including property line locations bordering or abutting public property, and work shall be installed in accordance with and to the line, grade and elevations established by the city. The property line locations bordering public property established by the city are not to include property or lot corners.
Minor alterations on city or public property which are requested such as curbing work, alterations to drainage installations, etc., which are not ordinarily performed by contractors, will be performed by the city upon request, at a nominal charge to applicant. This charge for the work shall be paid to the city at time of application for permit. The nominal charge shall not be in excess of the city's actual cost for materials and labor in installing the work or services.
(Ord. of 8-30-55, § 6)
Note— See City of Columbus vs. McDaniel, 17 Ga. 823, 45 SE 59, for holding that city not liable for damages in regrading of street where there was no showing of detriment to land abutting thereon.
Sec. 18-41. - Safety precautions.
Ample safeguards for the safety of the public, pedestrians and vehicles shall be provided and maintained including all necessary barricades and protective equipment. Approved lighting shall be provided and maintained where and as required for all times other than daylight hours.
(Ord. of 8-30-55, § 7)
Cross reference— Requirement that lights be provided where barricades or other paraphernalia are left in the streets at night, § 18-17.
Note— See City of Columbus vs. Sims, 94 Ga. 483, 20 SE 332, for holding that city is not liable for injury from obstruction in poorly lighted streets in that where city voluntarily undertakes to light streets it has no obligation as to the brightness of the light. See City of Columbus vs. Anglin, 120 Ga. 785, 48 SE 318, as to city's liability for defective sidewalks.
Sec. 18-42. - Cleaning up.
At completion there shall be a complete restoration of property and premises conforming with abutting conditions such as backfilling, final grading to proper levels and grade, restoration of any existing improvements, utilities, etc. Also, at completion the premises shall be left clean of all surplus materials and debris of every kind and removed from the site.
(Ord. of 8-30-55, § 8)
Sec. 18-43. - Rejected work; removal.
Any installation or work on city or public property, which has been rejected by the city as work not complying with the requirements of this article or not performed in an approved or acceptable manner shall be removed, at no expense to the city, not later than ten days after receipt of written notice from the city after which stated time each day of noncompliance shall constitute a separate offense and subject to the penalties as stipulated in section 1-8 of this Code.
(Ord. of 8-30-55, § 9)
Sec. 18-44. - Procedures for street improvements.
(A)
Creation of Priority List.
(1)
Existing ordinances. There is hereby created a record to be maintained by the clerk of council and located in the office of the clerk of council, which said record shall be entitled "Street Improvement Priority List." Such record shall, in chronological order of their adoption, list all ordinances for paving, whether they be ordinances based upon petition or ordinances of council without petition which have heretofore been adopted by council prior to the adoption of this section and which are not, as of the date of this section, under contract for development.
(2)
Additions to list. After the adoption of this section, whenever a petition to pave or improve a street is presented to council by the owners of more than 50 percent of the frontage on a street, a resolution will be prepared by the city attorney for action by the council receiving said petition and adding the project to the street improvement priority list in the next order of priority. Any councilor may propose a resolution adding any street improvement project, in lieu of actually calling for an ordinance, in which case, upon approval of said resolution, said project will be added to the street improvement priority list in the next order of priority.
(B)
Special Exceptions. All street improvements to be paved or improved through any type of assessment against abutting property shall be made in accordance with the priority list heretofore authorized and created, and no deviation shall be made in the order of priority, unless special exception is approved by written resolution of council. Such special exception shall be granted on the following circumstances:
(1)
It is to the contractual advantage of the government to include a lower priority project with the highest priority project on the list because of the proximity of the projects to each other.
(2)
Preparatory work by the government, such as storm sewers not installed, has not been completed. Delay for this purpose shall in no event be longer than one year after the project reaches the top priority on the list and no paving project with less priority shall be contracted for after said year has elapsed.
(3)
When federal or state appropriations cover part of the project on the priority list, the exception on the priority list may be granted to afford simultaneous development.
(4)
Any ordinance heretofore adopted which has been repealed prior to the fourth day of September, 1979, may be placed on a priority list dating from the date of passage of the ordinance which was later repealed.
(C)
Ordinance Procedure.
(1)
File of proposed petition ordinances. All petitions which have been received and added to the street improvement priority list will be maintained on file in the office of the clerk of council until said project is ready for contract.
(2)
Time for consideration and contracting.
(a)
Confirmation of petition. After a project is ready for the advertisement for bids to contract and before a petition ordinance is to be considered by council, the director of the department of engineering shall confirm that there still remains on the petition, if the project is a petition project, petitioners owning more than 50 percent of the abutting frontage of the project, and the petition shall be amendable to include signatures needed to qualify.
(b)
Call for ordinance. Upon report to council by the city manager that the project is ready for advertisement for bids and that the petition is in order with the requisite number of confirmed signatures of property owners owning more than 50 percent of the abutting frontage, if the project is a petition project, an ordinance may be called for the street improvement project.
(c)
Advertisement for bids. Upon adoption of the ordinance, the city manager shall immediately advertise for bids to contract for the improvement.
(Ord. No. 79-99, §§ 1—3, 9-4-79; Ord. No. 79-104, 9-18-79)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 79-99, adopted Sept. 4, 1979, was nonamendatory of the Code; hence, codification of sections 1—3 of said ordinance as § 18-14 is at the discretion of the editor.
Secs. 18-45—18-52. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS

Sec. 18-53. - Address assignments.
(a)
Address assignment. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Geographic Information Division (GIS) of the Department of Engineering of the Columbus-Consolidated Government to assign addresses and notify the appropriate agencies of such assignment. A copy of a plat as filed and recorded with the clerk of superior court shall be provided to the GIS division by the owner prior to any address assignment. A minimum of three business days will be required to process new addresses or changes to existing addresses.
(b)
Private streets. Street names for private drives/streets as provided in the A-1 agricultural district of the zoning ordinance may only be utilized for single family residential developments that serve a minimum of three lots. The private street name will be utilized in assignment of addresses only. The use of private street names for address assignment shall not constitute acceptance of responsibility or liability for personal injury or property damage by the Columbus Consolidated Government. All street names must be reviewed and approved through the department of community and economic development prior to address assignments in order to prevent duplication or confusion with existing streets. The department of engineering will collect a fee of $125.00 per sign to post private drive/street name signs. They shall be blue in color and labeled as private along with the street name.
In the case of apartment complexes or corporate entities, a private drive/street name may be utilized for addressing purposes provided it is reviewed and approved through the GIS Division and provided it meets the minimum safety requirements set forth below. The drive/street may not serve more than one business or complex and will be restricted to using a single name and number for the entire complex.
In the interest of public safety for fire protection, a private drive/street must meet all of the following minimum requirements:
(1)
The drive/street shall be clearly delineated with curb and gutter or a minimum five-foot shoulder for a distance of at least 50 feet measured from the edge of pavement of the public street. The drive/street may not have parking wells immediately adjacent thereto in this distance.
(2)
The minimum width of paving or concrete shall be 15 feet.
(3)
The minimum vertical clearance shall be 15 feet.
(4)
A minimum radius of 50 feet shall be utilized for any horizontal curves. The width shall be widened to 20 feet in these curved areas. All curves should meet the requirements of the AASHTO guidelines, current edition.
(5)
A minimum 50-foot tangent is needed between horizontal curves.
(6)
Any bridge structures should be designed to carry a minimum of 67,000 pounds.
(7)
Provide adequate utilities for fire protection.
The approval of a private drive/street name for address assignment shall not constitute acceptance of responsibility or liability for maintenance of any private drive/street by Columbus Consolidated Government.
(c)
Posting addresses. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupant of every building, mobile home or residence to have placed thereon in a place visible from the street (both private and public) numbers at least two inches high showing the official address number assigned to that location. Upon receiving notice from the GIS division that an address change is required, the owner or occupant will be required to remove the existing numbers and replace with the new numbers within 60 days of the date of the notice. Failure to post the correct address upon notice will be deemed a violation of this section.
(d)
Violations. Any person violating this Code section shall be punished as provided in section 1-8 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 02-85, § III, 8-6-02)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 02-85, § II, adopted August 6, 2002, deleted former § 18-53, which pertained to residences, mobile homes and businesses receiving mail, fire or police calls, and derived from Ord. No. 70-258, §§ 1—4, adopted October 5, 1970, and Ord. No. 83-21, § 1, adopted March 29, 1983. Section III of Ord. No. 02-85 enacted a new § 18-53 as set forth herein.
Sec. 18-54. - [Honorary designating of streets or segments of streets.]
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, the Columbus Council shall be authorized to designate by resolution existing streets or segments of existing streets in honor or memory of persons, living or deceased, upon recommendation of the Board of Honor for Distinguished Citizens pursuant to Columbus Code subsection 2-81(b). The board shall recommend an honorary designation by resolution, an official street name change by appropriate ordinance, or denial of the request. An honorary designation by resolution shall not change the numbering of buildings or official street addresses of the street or segment so designated. Upon such honorary designation, the traffic engineer shall be authorized to erect appropriate signage in a color distinguishable from standard street signage. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the naming of new streets pursuant to § 7.8.5 of the Unified Development Ordinance. All costs for such signage shall be paid by the applicant for the honorary designation.
(Ord. No. 11-57, § 2, 11-8-11)
Secs. 18-55—18-59. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - REPAIR AND PATCH CUT WORK BY UTILITY COMPANIES[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 82-98, enacted Dec. 28, 1982, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, codification of the substantive provisions of said ordinance as Ch. 18, Art. IV, is at the discretion of the editors. Specifically, the introductory paragraph of said ordinance is included herein as § 18-60, and §§ I—IV of the regulations promulgated by the department of engineering are included as §§ 18-61—18-64.
Cross reference— Injury to or destruction of apparatus used in supplying public services, § 14-62.4; legal notice required for closing streets and roadways, § 18-2.2; excavations, §§ 18-12, 18-13; obstructing sidewalks, § 18-16 et seq.; utility poles, § 18-20 et seq.; obstructing public ways, § 18-29 et seq.; signs on rights-of-way, § 18-34.1; procedures for street improvements, § 18-44.

Sec. 18-60. - Regulations adopted.
The following regulations, prepared by the Department of Engineering of Columbus, Georgia, are hereby adopted and established for repair and patch cuts made on public rights-of-way by the utility companies in Columbus, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 82-98, 12-28-82)
Sec. 18-61. - Scope.
This article shall apply to any and all maintenance, reconstruction, relocation or installation of any utility within the limits of city-owned rights-of-way requiring cutting and patching of any paved surfaces.
(Ord. No. 82-98, 12-28-82)
Sec. 18-62. - Application.
(a)
Permit required; accompanying documents. Each utility desiring to make an open cut within the limits of the right-of-way will be required to obtain a permit from the city engineering department, located on the first floor, east wing of the Government Center.
Permit application shall be accompanied by an 8½-inch by 11-inch plan view showing proposed limits of any new construction. Multiple cuts will be allowed when such cuts can be described at the same address location.
(b)
Exceptions. The utility companies will be required to obtain a permit at least 48 hours before work is to begin, with the following exceptions:
(1)
Emergency cuts: In case of an emergency, the utility company will obtain a permit not later than one working day after the work has begun.
(2)
Unforseen cuts which become necessary as a result of normal maintenance, reconstruction, relocation, or installation of utilities within the limits of the rights-of-way: The utility company will obtain a permit within one working day after the work has begun.
(Ord. No. 82-98, 12-28-82)
Sec. 18-63. - Design specifications.
(a)
Roadways:
(1)
All base material for patches on city streets shall be six inches thick, Class A, 3,000 p.s.i. concrete. An allowance of 1½ inches in depth shall be provided for appropriate asphaltic overlays.
(2)
Asphalt will be 1½ inches, Type E mix unless a more suitable in-kind mix is specified for large cuts by the city engineer.
(3)
The entire base area shall be tack-coated prior to any placement of asphalt.
(4)
Patching will be permitted on days when weather is satisfactory. Placing concrete temperature shall be 35 degrees and rising, and placing asphalt temperature shall be 35 degrees and rising.
(5)
All trench cuts shall be a minimum of 18 inches wide to allow room for mechanical compaction equipment. All backfill shall be tamped in six-inch lifts, to a minimum of 95 percent maximum dry density of a standard proctor.
(6)
Ditches shall be cut an additional six inches wide on each side to a depth of 7½ inches to provide a concrete bridge to reduce differential settlement.
(7)
All cuts shall be made so as to maintain square or rectangular configurations. No round cuts will be accepted.
(8)
No cleated equipment is to be used on paved surfaces. Special care shall be taken to protect pavements from damage by equipment stabilizers.
(9)
All excavated material shall be cleaned from pavement surfaces to the satisfaction of the field inspector by an approved method.
(10)
Drawing Number E-905 shall be filed in the department of engineering for graphic details of patching specifications.
(b)
Driveways:
(1)
Residential driveways will be replaced with five-inch, Class A, 3,000 p.s.i. concrete.
(2)
Commercial driveways will be replaced with six-inch, Class A, 3,000 p.s.i. concrete.
(3)
Asphalt driveways will be sawed and replaced in a uniform manner.
(4)
All driveways must be replaced with special care taken to satisfy property owners. Breakout limits shall be determined by utilities. In cases of disputes with property owners, the decision of the city engineer shall be final.
(Ord. No. 82-98, 12-28-82)
Sec. 18-64. - Responsibility and liability.
(a)
The utility company is responsible for maintaining warning devices and barricades on all utility cut projects until the cut is either permanently or temporarily repaired and opened to traffic. The warning devices shall be placed in accordance with Section 159 of the department of transportation's "Standard Specifications—Construction of Roads and Bridges," or latest revisions. The following exceptions are permitted for placement of advance construction site signing, which must begin:
(1)
500 feet before construction sites or at the nearest intersection on streets whose posted speed limit is less than but not including 40 miles per hour; or
(2)
1,000 feet before construction site on streets whose posted speed limit is 40 miles per hour or greater, but not including 50 miles per hour; or
(3)
1,500 feet before construction sites on streets with posted speed limits of 50 miles per hour or greater.
(b)
Each utility company shall furnish an emergency number where a responsible representative of the company can be reached after working hours and on weekends or holidays. This number shall be furnished to the directors of engineering, public works, and 911. The utility company shall be responsible for responding to emergencies promptly.
(c)
Each utility company will be totally responsible for maintenance of utility cut on right-of-way for 12 months. The required maintenance period shall expire on the last day of the month, one year from the month in which the final repair of the utility was made.
(d)
Utility companies shall repair all open cuts immediately following completion of construction with temporary patching material. Permanent patching material shall be placed no later than 30 calendar days following completion of temporary patch. The department of engineering shall be notified upon completion of permanent patching. Variances may be issued by the city engineer.
(e)
Any damage or claim of damage from the general public due to utility repair or installation operations shall be the responsibility of the utility company.
(f)
All utility companies shall be held responsible for insuring that all cuts are satisfactorily completed. Failure to comply will result in nonissuance of further permits.
(g)
The utility companies shall be responsible for scope and quality of work performed by their subcontractors. Subcontractors shall be licensed in Columbus, bonded and insured.
(Ord. No. 82-98, 12-28-82)
Secs. 18-65—18-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - RESERVED[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Section 2 of Ordinance No. 04-108, effective March 1, 2005 repealed Art. V, in its entirety. Former art. V pertained to Outdoor Cafes and derived from Ord. No. 99-24, effective April 29, 1999. Provisions previously codified herein can now be located in Ch. 3, Art. 2 of Appendix A.

Secs. 18-71—18-76. - Reserved.
