ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Governing bodies, generally.
The governing body of the city shall be administered by the council of consolidated government, officers, boards and agencies, as established and provided in the charter, and the manner therein provided; and by the officers, boards and agencies provided by this Code. Appointees appointed hereunder who have served two consecutive full terms shall not be eligible to succeed themselves until the lapse of 12 months from the end of said terms. This limitation shall not apply to permanent full-time employees of the consolidated government who are serving in appointed positions, to the Muscogee County Board of Elections, to the Columbus, Georgia Employees' Pension Plan Board of Trustees, to the Columbus Airport Commission, to the Board of Honor, to the Columbus Housing Authority, to the Medical Center Hospital Authority, to the Columbus, Georgia Hospital Authority, to the Columbus Building Authority, to the Downtown Development Authority, to the Resource Recovery Development Authority, or to any other board or authority where state law permits service of more than two consecutive full terms. The rule of succession contained in this section shall be controlling notwithstanding any other rules of succession heretofore enacted for particular boards and agencies, and appointees serving initial staggered terms that are shorter in length than a full term shall nevertheless be eligible to succeed themselves for two successive full terms in addition to serving the shorter staggered term. Members of the Columbus Council shall not be appointed to serve upon boards, commissions, or authorities of the consolidated government unless such appointment is expressly required by state law. To the extent that persons with the necessary qualifications are available, boards, commissions and authorities of the consolidated government shall have among their members at least one resident from each of the two senatorial districts into which Muscogee County is divided for representation in the General Assembly; in determining what qualifications are necessary, the council shall look to existing ordinances or resolutions.
Unless authorized by law or ordinance or resolution, the Columbus Council shall not appoint to any board, commission, or authority an employee of the consolidated government or an employee of any of its subordinate branches or an employee of any board, commission, or authority the members of which are appointed by the Columbus Council.
(Ord. No. 69-237, § 1, 11-24-69; Ord. No. 73-8, § 1, 1-17-73; Ord. No. 86-92, 8-12-86; Ord. No. 87-31, § 1, 3-17-87; Ord. No. 88-118, 11-29-88; Ord. No. 91-40, 5-28-91; Ord. No. 91-43, 6-11-91; Ord. No. 01-43, 6-12-01; Ord. No. 02-109, 11-5-02; Ord. No. 11-23, § 1, 5-31-11)
Charter reference— Legislative branch, § 3-100 et seq.; executive branch, § 4-100 et seq.; judicial branch, § 5-100 et seq.; general provisions, § 8-100 et seq.
Cross reference— Uses of prisoners for work on private property, § 1-10; personal use of public property by city employees and officers, § 1-10; creation of plumber examining board, § 8-1; creation of electrical examining board, § 8-6; planning advisory commission, §§ 22-2, 22-3.
State Law reference— Discretionary powers of city council or governing bodies, Ga. Code, § 69-203, which section is included in Part II of this Volume.
Note— Wiley vs. City of Columbus, 109 Ga. 295, 34 SE 575 held that where in an action on the contract there was no allegation that the contract was made through the Mayor and Board of Aldermen, the declaration was had where the charter of the city required that contracts by the city be made through the Mayor and the Board of Aldermen.
Sec. 2-1.01. - Appointment of Councilmembers as advisory members of authorities.
The Columbus Council may appoint a member of the Columbus Council as an advisory member of any authority created by ordinance of the Columbus Council, but such advisory member shall not be entitled to vote at meetings of any such authority.
(Ord. No. 97-108, 9-30-97)
Editor's note— The provisions of Ord. No. 97-108, adopted Sept. 30, 1997, which amended Ch. 2 of the Code, have been included herein as § 2-1.01 at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 2-1.1. - Ordinances effective in city limits prior to consolidation adopted.
All ordinances of the City of Columbus which were effective in the city limits of the City of Columbus prior to the consolidation of December 31, 1970, and which were effective to the city limits lines prior to the consolidation of December 31, 1970, be, and the same are hereby ordained to be effective throughout Columbus, Georgia, after consolidation of December 31, 1970, and to the Columbus, Georgia, limit lines as they will exist after consolidation of December 31, 1970.
(Ord. No. 71-1, § 1, 1-14-71; Ord. No. 71-2, § 1, 1-12-71)
Editor's note— Ord. Nos. 71-1 and 71-2 did not expressly amend this Code, hence inclusion as § 2-1.1 was at the editor's discretion.
Sec. 2-2. - Council meetings—Time, day, location.
The regular meetings of the Council of Columbus, Georgia shall be held at 9:00 a.m. on the second Tuesday of each month and at 5:30 p.m. on the fourth Tuesday of each month at the Columbus Government Center. In January of odd-numbered years, an organizational meeting and council meeting shall be held on the first Tuesday at 5:30 p.m. and regular meetings shall be held on the second Tuesday at 9:00 a.m. and the fourth Tuesday at 5:30 p.m. Except for such January meetings in odd-numbered years, a proclamation session shall be held by the mayor on the first Tuesday of each month at 5:30 p.m. at the Columbus Government Center and attendance of councilors shall be optional at this session. In any month with a fifth Tuesday, a consent agenda shall be considered and a work session meeting shall be held on said fifth Tuesday at 9:00 a.m. at the Columbus Government Center.
(Ord. No. 89-38, 4-11-89; Ord. No. 96-12, 2-13-96; Ord. No. 96-101, 10-15-96; Ord. No. 99-5, 1-12-99; Ord. No. 99-50, 7-20-99; Ord. No. 08-68, § 1, 12-9-08)
Sec. 2-3. - Same—Rules of procedure.
(a)
Pursuant to the duties of the mayor under the Columbus Charter to preside at all meetings of the Columbus Council, the mayor shall preserve order and decorum.
(b)
In the absence of the mayor, the mayor pro tem shall preside, and in his absence a chairman shall be appointed by the members of the council, vested with all powers of the mayor during his absence.
(c)
Either the mayor or the Columbus Council may create committees for the purpose of inquiring into or making recommendations on matters within the scope of the mayor's or council's authority, and the mayor shall appoint the members of such committees unless the Council provides for other appointing authority.
(d)
All persons desiring to appear before the Council of Columbus, Georgia, shall make written application to the Clerk of Council not later than 12:00 noon on Friday preceding the meeting, giving his or her name and the subject matter to be discussed. Said information may be faxed or delivered to the clerk by a third party. The Clerk of Council shall prepare an agenda for the Council and no person shall be allowed to speak unless on said agenda. Said individual shall be placed on the agenda next to the item to be addressed by the council at the time the item is called up to the mayor. A public agenda shall be prepared by the Clerk of Council and individuals shall be heard immediately after the city attorney's agenda upon recognition by the mayor.
(e)
A motion to reconsider any of the proceedings of the council will not be entertained unless it be made by a councilor who voted with the majority and such motion shall be made at the same or succeeding meeting.
(f)
A point of order shall be decided by the Mayor subject to appeal to the whole council by motion and second of two members of council, but there shall be no suspension of the rules of council established in this section.
(g)
A motion to table any matter shall be first in order, and motions to amend shall be made and voted on prior to motions for passage or defeat of an ordinance or resolution; a motion to amend an amendment shall be made and voted on prior to voting on the amendment which it addresses.
(h)
A motion for adjournment shall always be in order.
(i)
The Columbus Council shall by resolution or agreement adopt such order of business and such limitations on speaking times as it deems desirable, but no unreasonable or unlawful limitation on speaking time shall be imposed in zoning matters or when the council sits as a quasi-judicial body on such matters as license revocations.
(j)
Consistent with the provision of the Columbus Charter requiring the affirmative vote of six members of the Columbus Council to enact an ordinance and consistent with provisions of Georgia law requiring the majority of the membership of a body to take action, at least six votes on all matters before the Columbus Council shall be required in order to take action.
(k)
In addition to, but consistent with, existing rules of procedure contained in the Columbus Code of Ordinances or in the Columbus Charter, Robert's Rules of Order is hereby adopted as rules of procedure for conducting meetings of the Columbus Council; but those rules contained in Robert's Rules of Order allowing certain votes of a majority of a quorum in order to take any action and requiring a two-third's vote for certain matters are not adopted. A copy of Robert's Rules of Order will be maintained in the office of the Clerk of the Columbus Council.
(l)
Notwithstanding any provision of this section, expressions of commendation or congratulations to citizens by the Columbus Council may be adopted by acclamation at monthly proclamation sessions held by the mayor and council on the first Tuesday of each month without necessity of official quorum of the Columbus Council.
(Code 1914, § 801; Ord. No. 62-13, § 1, 2-5-62; Ord. No. 65-26, § 1, 3-15-65; Ord. No. 72-28, § 1, 2-29-72; Ord. No. 83-14, § 1, 3-9-83; Ord. No. 89-13, 2-7-89; Ord. No. 97-131, 11-25-97; Ord. No. 98-82, 9-1-98; Ord. No. 11-9, § 1, 2-22-11)
Sec. 2-3.01. - Recommendation and reports of board, committee, vote required.
(a)
Boards, committees and other bodies appointed by the city council of the City of Columbus, be, and they are hereby required to obtain a majority vote of its entire composition before making any recommendation or report to the city council of the City of Columbus.
(b)
The city council of the City of Columbus will not consider any recommendation or report of any board, committee, or other body appointed by the city council of the City of Columbus unless such report or recommendation has received a majority vote of the entire composition of such board, committee or other body appointed by the city council of the City of Columbus.
(Ord. No. 70-133, §§ 1, 2, 5-25-70)
Editor's note— Section 2-3.01 is derived from Ord. No. 70-133, §§ 1, 2, enacted May 25, 1970. This ordinance did not amend this Code.
Sec. 2-3.02. - Qualification of board, commission and authority appointees; oath.
(a)
Those persons appointed to boards, commissions and authorities of Columbus, Georgia, shall be residents and qualified registered voters of Columbus, Georgia. except salaried employees or salaried officials of the consolidated government who are designated to serve by virtue of their position and those who are otherwise excepted from this residency requirement by the ordinance establishing that board, authority or commission.
(b)
Appointees to boards, commissions and authorities of Columbus, Georgia, before assuming the duties of their offices, shall take the following oath before the Mayor of Columbus, Georgia (salaried employees or salaried officials of the consolidated government who are designated to serve and those who are serving in positions for which the residency requirement has been removed by ordinance may omit that portion of the oath which requires them to swear that they are residents and qualified voters of Columbus, Georgia):
'I_______(name), do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I am a resident and qualified registered voter of Columbus, Georgia, and that I will faithfully and impartially demean myself as a member of the _______(name of board) during my continuance in office; that I will discharge my duties to the best of my ability; that I will do so agreeably with the laws of the United States of America, the State of Georgia, and the Charter of Columbus, Georgia, so help me God.'
(Ord. No. 83-63, § 1, 7-26-83; Ord. No. 83-69, §§ 1, 2, 8-30-83; Ord. No. 22-056, § 1, 11-8-22)
Sec. 2-3.03. - Procurement ordinance.
There is hereby adopted an ordinance entitled "Procurement Ordinance for the Consolidated Government of Columbus, Georgia," which is set out below.
(Ord. No. 85-23, 3-5-85; Ord. No. 20-053, 11-17-20)
ARTICLE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Part A: Purpose and Application
1-101.
Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to provide for fair and equitable treatment of all persons involved in public purchasing by the Consolidated Government of Columbus, Georgia ("the city"); to maximize the purchasing value of public funds in procurement; and to provide safeguards for maintaining a procurement system of quality and integrity.
1-102.
Application. This ordinance applies to all purchases and contracts for the procurement of equipment, supplies, services and construction entered into by the city. It shall apply to every expenditure of public funds for public purchasing irrespective of the source of the funds.
Any department, office or agency receiving appropriations from council shall adhere to these purchasing polices, unless exempted by council action.
Exemption: The following agencies or funding sources are exempt from these procurement policies: The Land Bank Authority, The Columbus, Georgia Golf Authority (whether doing business as Bull Creek Golf Course or Oxbow Creek Golf Course), Special Operations Federal Forfeiture Fund Task, Police Forfeiture Fund, Sheriff Forfeiture Fund, and Columbus, Georgia Convention and Trade Center.
When the procurement involves the expenditure of federal assistance or contract funds, the procurement shall be conducted in accordance with any mandatory applicable federal law and regulations. Nothing in this ordinance shall prevent any public agency from complying with the terms and conditions of any grant, gift, or bequest that is otherwise consistent with the law.
Part B: Definitions
1-201.
Definitions. The terms, phrases, words and their derivations set forth below shall have the meaning given herein. Words not defined herein or within the Official Code of Georgia Annotated shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage. Words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural the singular; words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
(1)
Annual contract. Any contract entered into for a period of one year or multiple one-year periods (including options to renew for additional one year periods), with a vendor or contractor, to provide Columbus Consolidated Government, upon request, with a specified product or service, such as uniforms, concrete, architectural services, at a predetermined or negotiated rate or cost.
(2)
Architectural/engineering and land surveying services. Those professional services within the scope of the practice of architecture, professional engineering, or land surveying, as defined by the laws of the State of Georgia.
(3)
Award. When the city council has authorized the award of a contract and approved the execution of the contract by the city manager or such other person as may be designated by the mayor and approved by council in accordance with Section 7-500 of the Charter. However no liability shall attach nor shall the contract be considered binding unless it has been duly executed by the contractor and returned with all required submittals including insurance and bonding, if applicable, executed by the city manager, or such other person as council may designate, attested to by the clerk, and approved by city attorney as to form.
(4)
Bid. An offer submitted in response to a request for bid issued by Columbus Consolidated Government, which can become a contract upon acceptance by the government.
(5)
Bid bond. A written agreement or check by which a third party guarantees that a bidder will accept a contract as bid, if it is awarded.
(6)
Bid opening. The public opening of bids which are recorded and made available for public inspection.
(7)
Bidder (or offeror). A person, company or firm who make a bid (or offer) to provide the Consolidated Government of Columbus, Georgia, or a using agency thereof, with supplies, services, or construction.
(8)
Brand name or equal specifications. A specification listing one or more items by manufacturers' names or catalogue number to describe the standard of quality, performance, and other salient characteristics needed to meet requirements, and which provides for the submission of equivalent products.
(9)
Brand name specification. A specification limited to one or more items by manufacturers' names or catalogue numbers.
(10)
Business. Any corporation, partnership, individual sole proprietorship, joint stock company, joint venture, or other private legal entity.
(11)
Buyer. An employee in the purchasing division who is responsible for processing solicitations.
(12)
Change order. A written modification to a contract, issued by the city, directing the contractor to make changes to the contract.
(13)
Columbus Council. The Governing Body of Columbus Consolidated Government.
(14)
City Manager. The Chief Administrative Officer of Columbus Consolidated Government.
(15)
Collusion. When two or more parties act together secretly to achieve a fraudulent or unlawful act. May manifest itself in the form of bid collusion when bidders secretly agree to unlawful practices regarding competitive bidding. May inhibit free and open competition in violation of antitrust laws. Also see Identical bid.
(16)
Competitive sealed bidding. Preferred method of Columbus Consolidated Government for acquiring goods, services, and construction for public use in which award is made to the lowest responsive and responsible bidder, based solely on the response to the criteria set forth in the RFB (request for bid); does not include discussions or negotiations with bidders.
(17)
Competitive sealed proposals. A procurement method used by Columbus Consolidated Government for obtaining goods, services and construction for public use in which discussion and negotiations may be conducted with responsible offerors who submit responsive proposals, i.e. RFP (request for proposals).
(18)
Confidential information. Any information which is available to an employee only because of the employee's status as an employee of the Consolidated Government of Columbus, Georgia and is not a matter of public knowledge or available to the public on request.
(19)
Construction. The process or building, altering, repairing, improving, or demolition any public structure or building, or other public improvements of any kind to any public real property. Routine operation, repair, or maintenance of existing structures, buildings, or real property is not included.
(20)
Contract. Any type of administrative agreement, regardless of what it may be called for the procurement or disposal, by Consolidated Government of Columbus, Georgia, of supplies, services, or construction.
(21)
Contract modification (or bilateral change). Any written alteration in specifications, delivery point, rate of delivery, period of performance, price, quantity, or other provisions of any contract accomplished by mutual action of the parties under contract.
(22)
Contractor. Any person, firm, or company having a contract with the Consolidated Government of Columbus, Georgia or a using agency thereof.
(23)
Cooperative procurement (purchasing). A) The action taken when two or more entities combine their requirements to obtain advantages of volume purchases including administrative savings and other benefits; B) A variety of arrangements whereby two or more public procurement units purchase from the same supplier or multiple suppliers using a single RFB or RFP; or C) Cooperative procurement efforts may result in contracts that other entities may "piggyback".
(24)
Cost analysis. The evaluation of cost data for the purpose of arriving at costs actually incurred or estimates of the costs to be incurred, the prices to be paid, and the costs to be reimbursed.
(25)
Cost data. Factual information concerning the cost of labor, material, overhead, and other cost elements which are expected to be incurred or which have been actually incurred by contractor in performing the contract.
(26)
Cost-reimbursement contract. A contract under which a contractor is reimbursed for costs that are allowable and allocable in accordance with the contract terms and the provisions of this ordinance, and for a fee or profit, if any.
(27)
Davis-Bacon Act. A Federal Law (1931) which requires contractors who perform public works construction projects, that are federally funded, to pay their workers the prevailing wage rate paid in the area for similar work, as set forth by the secretary of labor.
(28)
Debarment. To prohibit a seller/contractor from bidding on future requirements for cause for a certain period of time for Columbus Consolidated Government.
(29)
Debriefing. A practice used primarily during the request for proposal process, whereby the Columbus Consolidated Government purchasing manager, buyer or other representative will meet with those parties whose proposals were not deemed appropriate for award. It is viewed as a learning process for proposers who may gain a better understanding regarding perceived deficiencies contained within their submitted proposal.
(30)
Default. The omission or failure of a vendor to perform a legal or contractual duty, to observe a promise or discharge an obligation, or to perform an agreement for Columbus Consolidated Government.
(31)
Disadvantaged business enterprise (DBE). A disadvantaged business enterprise or DBE is a for-profit small business concern that is at least 51 percent owned by one individual or at least two individuals who are both socially and economically disadvantaged. In the case of a corporation, 51 percent of the stock must be owned by one or more socially and economically disadvantaged individuals. In addition, the business management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more of the socially and economically disadvantaged individuals who own it. (Georgia DOT) See also Historically Under-Utilized Business Enterprise, Minority-Owned Business Enterprise and Women-Owned Business Enterprise.
(32)
Emergency purchase. A purchase made by Columbus Consolidated Government due to an unexpected and urgent request where health and safety or the conservation of public resources is threatened. Usually formal competitive bidding procedures are waived.
(33)
Employee. An individual drawing a salary or wages from the Consolidated Government of Columbus, Georgia, whether elected or not.
(34)
Financial interest. Ownership of ay interest, or involvement in any relationship, from which or as a result of which a person has received within the past year, or is presently or in the future entitled to receive, any compensation; ownership of ten percent or more of any property or business; or holding a position in business such as officer, director, trustee, partner, employee, or the like, or holding any position of management.
(35)
Gratuity. A payment, loan, subscription, advance, or deposit of money, services, or anything of more than nominal value, present or promised, unless consideration of substantially equal or greater value is received.
(36)
Historically underutilized business (HUB). See definition for Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE).
(37)
Identical bid. A bid that is exactly the same in all respects with another bid submitted to Columbus Consolidated Government at the same time and for the same requirements. Bids that are the same price but submitted by two or more bidders. In some cases, terms and conditions may be the same. Identical bids may raise an antitrust concern when there is reason to suspect collusion between the bidders. Also see Collusion.
(38)
Immediate family. A spouse, children, parents, brothers, and sisters.
(39)
Invitation for bids or request for bid. All documents, whether attached or incorporated by reference, utilized for soliciting sealed bids.
(40)
Local public procurement unit (or public procurement unit). Any county, city or any other subdivision of the consolidated government or public agency of any such subdivision; or any educational, health, or other institution or public authority (or, to the extent provided by law, any other entity which expends public funds for the procurement of supplies, services, and construction) within the boundaries or under the jurisdiction of the consolidated government.
(42)
Minority business enterprises (or MBE) See definition for Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE).
(43)
Only known source (sole source procurement). A situation created due to the inability to obtain competition. May result because only one vendor or supplier possesses the unique ability or capability to meet the particular requirements of the solicitation. The city requires a justification from the requesting agency explaining why this is the only source for the requirement.
(44)
Piggyback (piggyback cooperatives). A form of intergovernmental cooperative purchasing in which an entity will be extended the pricing and terms of a contract entered into by a larger entity. Generally, a larger entity will competitively award a contract that will include language allowing for other entities to utilize the contract which may be to their advantage in terms of pricing, thereby gaining economies of scale that they normally would not receive if they competed on their own. Example: A smaller government agency has the ability to use its state issued contract to obtain goods and services which is also known as "riding" a contract. (NIGP)
(45)
Price analysis. The evaluation of pricing data without analysis of the separate cost components and profit as is done in cost analysis; it may be used to assist in arriving at prices to be paid and costs to be reimbursed.
(46)
Pricing data. Factual information concerning prices for items (including offered or proposed selling prices, historical selling prices, and current selling prices at all levels of contracting and subcontracting) substantially similar to those being prepared.
(47)
Procurement The buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, or otherwise acquiring of any supplies, services, or construction; also, all functions that pertain to the obtaining of any supply, service, or construction item, including description of requirements, selection and solicitation of sources, preparation and award of contract, and all phases of contract administration.
(48)
Professional services. Those services provided by persons defined by the laws of the state to be professionals (accountants, clergy, physicians, lawyers, dentists, etc.) or any other services found by the city to be professional services (in that provision of these services involves extended analysis; exercising discretion and independent judgment in their performance; an advanced and specialized type of knowledge, expertise, or training customarily acquired either by prolonged course of study or equivalent experience in the field or both).
(49)
Public agency. A public entity subject to or created by the Consolidated Government of Columbus, Georgia.
(50)
Public records. Public records are records prepared and maintained or received in the course of a government agency's operation. They may exist electronically, as a hard copy, or in some other format. The substance of the content matters, not the format. As a result, public records may include:
•
Documents.
•
Handwritten notes.
•
Emails.
•
Text messages.
•
Calendars.
•
Papers.
•
Letters.
•
Maps.
•
Books.
•
Tapes.
•
Photographs.
•
Computer-based or computer-generated information.
•
Data.
•
Data fields.
Public records also include records possessed by a private person or entity in the performance of a service or function on behalf of the "agency." Providing accurate and timely responses to open records requests is vital to the operation of a transparent local government. It is important that the city attorney be consulted on complicated or unusual open records requests to ensure that responses comply with state law and that the records requested are subject to disclosure under Georgia or federal law.
(51)
Qualified-products list. An approved list of supplies, services, or construction items described by model or catalogue numbers, which, prior to competitive solicitation, the consolidate government has determined will meet the applicable specification requirements.
(52)
Request for proposals. All documents, whether attached or incorporated by reference, utilized for soliciting proposals. The city uses this process to solicit proposals from potential providers for goods and services (Offerors). Price is usually not a primary evaluation factor. Provides for the negotiation of all terms, including price prior to contract award.
(53)
Responsible bidder (or responsible offeror). A bidder (or offeror) who has the capability in all respects to fulfill the contract requirements, and the tenacity, perseverance, experience, integrity, reliability, capacity, facilities, equipment, and credit to assure good-faith performance.
(54)
Responsive bidder (or responsive offeror). A person who has submitted a bid (or offer) which conforms in all material respects to the requirements set forth in the invitation for bids or request for proposal.
(55)
Services. The furnishing of labor, time, or effort by a contractor, not involving the delivery of a specific end product other than reports which are merely incidental to the required performance.
(56)
Small business. An independently owned firm, corporation, or establishment, having a small number of employees, low volume of sales, small amount of assets, and limited impact on the market. (NIGP)
(57)
Solicitation. An invitation for bids, a request for proposals, telephone calls or any document used to obtain bids or proposals for the purpose of entering into a contract.
(58)
Specifications. Any description of the physical or functional characteristics or of the nature of a supply, service, or construction item. It may include a description of any requirement for inspecting, testing, or preparing a supply, service, or construction item for delivery.
(59)
Supplies. All property, including but not limited to equipment, materials, printing, insurance, and leases of real property, excluding land or a permanent interest in land.
(60)
Surplus supplies/equipment. Any tangible city-owned supplies (other than expendable supplies) or equipment no longer of any use to the city. This includes obsolete supplies, equipment, scrap materials and nonexpendable supplies that have completed their useful life cycle.
(61)
Using agency. Any department, commission, board, or public agency requiring supplies, services, or construction procured pursuant to this Ordinance.
(62)
Women-owned business enterprise (WBE). A business of which 51 percentage is owned or controlled by a woman or women. See also Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE).
ARTICLE 2. OFFICE OF THE PURCHASING MANAGER
2-101.
Appointment and tenure.
1)
Appointment. The purchasing manager shall be appointed by the finance director.
2)
Tenure. The purchasing manager shall be a member of the merit system, responsible directly to the finance director.
2-102.
Authority and duties.
(1)
Principal public purchasing official. Except as otherwise provided herein, the purchasing manager shall serve as the principal public purchasing official for the city and shall be responsible for the procurement of supplies, services, and construction in accordance with this article, as well as, the management and disposal of supplies.
(2)
Duties. The purchasing manager shall be subject to the finance director's supervision to perform the following duties:
a.
Manage the purchasing division,
b.
Procure or supervise the procurement of all supplies, services, and construction needed by the city,
c.
Sell, trade, or otherwise dispose of surplus supplies belonging to the city,
d.
Establish and maintain programs for specifications development, contract administration, and inspection and acceptance, in cooperation with the public agencies using the supplies, services, and construction,
e.
Interpret and execute the policies and procedures of the city relating to procurement and (through subordinate supervision) develop, install, and maintain a harmonious procurement program for the city,
f.
Direct and supervise proper procedures to develop the objectives of the city regarding procurement practices,
g.
Maintain a complete file of all transactions (including bid bonds, performance bonds, contracts, pricing data, etc.) related to all purchases other than small purchases as defined in section 3-104 (1) Small purchases: Purchases up to $1,000.00; and
h.
Perform such related duties developing and initiating the division budget; proposing cost-efficient models to improve overall efficiency for all departments regarding procurement procedures; and representing the Finance Director in the performance of assigned tasks.
(3)
Operational procedures. Consistent with this article, and with the approval of the finance director, the purchasing manager may adopt operational procedures relating to the execution of its duties. These shall be set forth in a procurement handbook.
2-103.
Delegations of authority to other city officials. With written approval of the finance director, the purchasing manager may delegate authority to purchase certain supply, service, or construction items to other city officials if such delegation is deemed necessary for the effective procurement of those items, notwithstanding the provisions of section 2-102 (authority and duties).
ARTICLE 3. SOURCE SELECTION AND CONTRACT FORMATION
Part A: Methods of Source Selection
3-101.
Purpose. The purpose of this article is to provide written and uniform procedural guidelines for the procurement of goods and services for Columbus, Georgia. These policies shall govern the procurement of commodities, equipment, services and all related contracts and agreements.
Any department, office or agency receiving appropriations from council shall adhere to these purchasing polices, unless exempted by council action.
Exemption: The following agencies or funding sources are exempt from these procurement policies: The Land Bank Authority, Bull Creek Golf Course, Oxbow Creek Golf Course, Special Operations Federal Forfeiture Fund, Police Forfeiture Fund, Sheriff Forfeiture Fund, and Columbus, Georgia Convention and Trade Center.
3-101A.
Public access to procurement information. Procurement information shall be a public record to the extent provided in the ordinance and shall be available to the public as provided in such statues.
3-102.
Legal authority. This procurement ordinance is adopted by council as of the effective date of November 17, 2020 pursuant to the authority of Section 7-500 of the Columbus Charter.
3-103.
Agency responsibility. Columbus may use a combination of decentralized and centralized purchasing to obtain goods and services for its various agencies.
For decentralized purchasing, this policy is intended to delegate appropriate levels of fiscal and purchasing responsibility to the city's using agencies. It is the responsibility of each department (agency) head to manage all needed purchases within the limits of the department's adopted operating budget, approved each fiscal year.
Departments (agencies), unless exempted by this ordinance, are required to follow all procurement rules and regulations presented in this ordinance. As well as any operational procedural guidelines enacted by the finance department.
3-104.
Purchasing limits. The procedures specified in this section shall be employed for all purchases of goods and services which are not otherwise exempt.
(1)
Small purchases: Purchases up to and including $1,000.00: Any supply, material or contractual service, including construction, not under an annual contract, with an estimated total cost of $1,000.00 or less may be purchased by the using agency through the use of a city issued credit/procurement card. If the credit/procurement card is not accepted by a merchant, then an official purchase document issued by Columbus or petty cash disbursement may be used(Petty cash disbursements shall not exceed $50.00). This requirement shall apply to the purchase of any single item or single purchase of multiple items with an estimated total cost not to exceed $1,000.00.
(2)
Competitive quotation purchases: Purchases from $1,001.00 up to and including $5,000.00: Any supply, material or contractual service, including construction, not under an annual contract, with an estimated total cost greater than $1,000.00, but not more than $5,000.00 may be purchased on the open market by the using agency obtaining and submitting to purchasing at least three written quotations from reputable vendors. This requirement shall apply to the purchase of any single item or single purchase of multiple items with an estimated total cost greater than $1,000.00 and up to and including $5,000.00. An official purchase order of the Columbus Consolidated Government, issued to the awarded vendor(s), shall be used for the procurement. Final purchasing approval authority will be the purchasing manager.
(3)
Sealed quotations: Purchases from $5,001.00 up to $24,999.99: Any supply, material or contractual service, including construction, not under an annual contract, with an estimated total cost greater than $5,000.00, but not more than $24,999.99 shall be purchased on the open market, without regard for formal advertising by obtaining competitive sealed quotations. The competitive sealed quotation process will be administered by the purchasing division. This requirement shall apply to the purchase of any single item or single purchase of multiple items with an estimated total cost greater than $5,000.00 up to $24,999.99. An official purchase order of the Columbus Consolidated Government, issued to the awarded vendor(s), shall be used for the procurement. Final purchasing approval authority is the city manager, who has delegated this authority to the finance department.
(4)
Competitive sealed bid (formal) bid process or competitive sealed proposals (negotiation): Purchases $25,000.00 and greater: Any supply, material or contractual service, including construction, which has an estimated total cost of $25,000.00 or more shall be purchased through the competitive sealed bid process or through the competitive sealed proposal process. These procurements shall be formally advertised. This requirement shall apply to the purchase of any single item or single purchase of multiple items with an estimated total cost of $25,000.00 or greater. The sealed bid process and the request for proposal process will be administered by the purchasing division. An official purchase order of the Columbus Consolidated Government shall be issued to the awarded vendor(s) for the procurement, or when applicable, a contract shall be executed.
In addition, any supply, material, or contractual service required under an annual contract, for any term length and regardless of the total cost, shall be procured through the use of the formal bid process or competitive sealed proposal process. Purchasing authority: Columbus City Council.
3-105.
Small purchases: Purchases up to and including $1,000.00: Any supply, materials or contractual service, not under an annual contract, with an estimated total cost not exceeding $1,000.00 may be purchased by the using agency through the use of a credit/procurement card, an official purchase document issued by the city or petty cash disbursement. However, petty cash disbursements shall not exceed $50.00 This requirement shall apply to the purchase of any single item or single purchase of multiple items with an estimated total cost not to exceed $1,000.00.
(1)
Credit/procurement card.
A.
Purpose. The city has used various methods to accomplish small dollar purchases of goods and services. These methods, such as petty cash and purchase orders, have proven to be costly, time consuming and occasionally have not been accepted by merchants. The city has initiated this credit/procurement card policy for the following reasons:
Credit/procurement card…
−
Represents a faster, more efficient way to purchase small dollar items.
−
Costs less to process than a purchase order.
−
Provides agencies with more flexibility.
−
Increases productivity, by decreasing lag time waiting for purchase orders to process.
−
Provides sufficient control.
The finance department will develop directives to establish those procedures and policies under which agencies shall control the use of credit/procurement cards that will be assigned to and utilized by selected city employees to purchase goods and services on behalf of the city. The directive will accomplish the following:
−
Ensure the procurement with credit/procurement cards is accomplished in accordance with the city's ordinances, policies and established rules.
−
Ensure appropriate internal controls are established within each agency procuring with credit/procurement cards so the procurement card is used only for authorized purposes.
−
Provide employees who must procure for the city, a convenient method to perform purchasing activities by reducing the need for a purchase order.
Finally, it is intended that the policies and procedures established be viewed as minimum standards for agencies who may wish to establish additional controls beyond those suggested. However, minimum control standards shall be established by the finance director or designee.
B.
Scope. The directive will be applicable to any and all city agencies, including elected officials, who have selected employees to use credit/procurement cards to purchase supplies and materials approved by the directive.
C.
Using agency responsibility. The decision of when a credit card is issued, and to whom issued, will be decided by the department head/elected official* or his/her designee only. The department head/elected official or his/her designee will request issuance of the credit card from the purchasing manager. The department head/elected official will be responsible for usage of credit/procurement cards by employees.
*In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-80-24, Columbus Council shall designate which Columbus and Muscogee County Elected Officials shall receive CCG purchasing/credit cards for themselves or their staff.
D.
Controls. A number of unique controls have been developed for this program that do not exist in a traditional credit card environment. These controls ensure that the card can be used only for specific purposes and within specific dollar limits. In addition, certification of all purchases is required by each cardholder, with verification and approval performed by the approving official (department head/elected official or designee).
E.
Restrictions. The use of the credit/procurement card is prohibited for the purchase of the following:
−
Personal purchases of any kind, specifically including any purchase not directly related to the cardholder's public duties.
−
Purchase of any one item or aggregate items, from a single vendor, which cost more than the approved small purchase limit. Currently, the small purchase limit is $1,000.00. NOTE: CARDHOLDERS SHALL NOT SPLIT PURCHASES TO STAY UNDER THE $1,000.00 LIMIT FOR SMALL PURCHASES.
−
Cash advances.
−
Goods/services under annual contract. These items must be paid through the finance system, as the bid prices for most contracts are loaded in the system as an audit check.
−
Microcomputer software and hardware (Unless approved by or purchased by the information technology department).
−
Gift cards—Gift cards are prohibited unless approved by the city manager.
−
Spouse/significant other travel expenses.
−
Entertainment.
−
Alcohol products.
−
Tobacco products.
−
Professional services (i.e. Physicians, attorneys, veterinarians, accountants, etc. These services are 1099 reportable and should be paid through the finance system).
−
Food. The purchase of food is prohibited unless for an authorized business purpose.
The department head/elected official will be held responsible for any card violations committed by employees.
(2)
Purchase order—Petty cash disbursement.
A.
Purpose. Although the majority of small purchases should be accomplished with the credit/procurement card, there may be instances where the credit card/procurement card cannot be utilized. In the event a credit/procurement card cannot be used, an official purchase order or petty cash disbursement shall be utilized for small purchases.
B.
Purchase order. The purchase order will represent a contract for the small purchase and the using agency will have the option of hand delivering, emailing, or mailing the document to the vendor. The same purchasing restrictions that apply for credit/procurement card purchases will apply for the use of the purchase order for small purchases with a total estimated cost up to $1,000.00.
C.
Petty cash disbursement. Petty cash disbursements may be used when the credit/procurement card or purchase order is not practical. The establishment of Petty cash disbursement Accounts must be approved by the Finance Director. No petty cash disbursement shall exceed $50.00.
3-106.
Competitive quotation purchases: Purchases from $1,001.00 up to and including $5,000.00.
(1)
Purpose. Any supply, material or contractual service, not under an annual contract, with an estimated cost from $1,001.00 up to and including $5,000.00 may be purchased on the open market by the using agency obtaining at least three written quotations from reputable vendors. At least one of the quotations must be from a certified DBE, if a DBE is available to provide the supply, material or contractual service. This requirement shall apply to the purchase of any single item or single purchase of multiple line items, from a single vendor, with an estimated cost from $1,001.00 up to and including $5,000.00.
Purchases in this dollar range can also be obtained via cooperative purchasing.
(2)
Using agency responsibility. Procurements from $1,001.00 up to and including $5,000 shall be approved only after the appropriate representative from the using agency has completed training in obtaining written quotations, documentation procedures and has demonstrated knowledge in these areas, as well as, acquainted themselves with the process of identifying and contacting vendors. Minimally, the agency will be responsible for documenting the following: 1) the price quote requesting form or document issued by the department; 2) the names of all businesses submitting quotations; 3) the names of the individual providing the quotations; 4) the date the quotations were received; 5) written quotes submitted by vendors; and 6) city employee obtaining the quotation. All documentation will be filed in the purchasing division as a matter of public record.
(3)
Purchasing instrument. The using agency shall initiate an official purchase order to the recommended vendor(s). All documentation will be forwarded to the purchasing division for review and final approval.
(4)
Purchasing authority. The purchasing manager shall have final approval for all from $1,001.00 up to and including $5,000.00.
(5)
Award. The award will be made to the lowest, responsible, responsive vendor(s). Council action is not required.
3-107.
Sealed quotations: Purchases from $5,001.00 up to $24,999.99.00.
(1)
Purpose. Any supply, material or contractual service, not under an annual contract, with an estimated total cost from $5,001.00 up to $24,999.99.00 shall be purchased on the open market, without regard for formal advertising by obtaining competitive sealed quotations.
Purchases in this dollar range can also be obtained via cooperative purchasing.
The competitive sealed quotation process will be administered by the purchasing division. This requirement shall apply to the purchase of any single item or single purchase of multiple items, from a single vendor, with an estimated total cost from $5,001.00 up to $24,999.99.00. The same procedures will be followed as outlined in section 3-108, formal competitive sealed bidding, with the exception of the following changes:
A.
Using agency responsibility. The using agency will be required to supply, to the Purchasing Division, the following information: 1) detailed specifications describing the required good/service; 2) suggested vendors whom the using agency is aware can supply the required good/service; 3) the time frame the good or service is required. The using agency shall establish a project manager for the procurement.
B.
Quotation solicitation. The purchasing division shall administer the quotation solicitation. No formal advertising is required.
C.
Notice. Vendors will be given at least fifteen business days to respond to a competitive sealed quotation solicitation. The city may seek competitive quotations in a shorter period, due to time constraints or need, if necessary, as determined by the purchasing manager.
D.
Quotation receipt and opening. Sealed quotations shall be opened publicly in the presence of one or more witnesses at the time and place stated in the public notice. The amount of each quotation, the bidder's name and such other relevant information as the purchasing manager deems appropriate shall be recorded and retained in accordance with Georgia law. The record and each bid shall be open to the public in accordance with Article 3, 301A of the Procurement Ordinance (Public Access to Procurement Information).
E.
Evaluation. Quotation responses will be evaluated by the using agency for award recommendation. Purchasing staff will perform further review for due diligence.
F.
Award. The award will be made to the lowest, responsible, responsive vendor(s). Council action is not required.
G.
Purchase authority. Final purchasing approval authority is the city manager, who has delegated this authority to the finance department.
H.
Purchasing instrument. After approval of the award recommendation, the purchasing division will issue an official purchase order to the awarded vendor(s). All information concerning the procurement will be kept in a project file, in the purchasing division, as a matter of public record.
3-108.
Competitive sealed (formal) bid process: Purchases $25,000.00 and greater.
(1)
Purpose. All city procurements with an estimated total cost of $25,000.00 and greater will be awarded by the competitive sealed bid process, except as provided in the sections titled competitive sealed proposal (negotiation), emergency procurement, only known source procurement and cooperative purchase.
Procurements with an estimated value less than $25,000.00 may be formally bid if deemed to be in the best interest of the city by the purchasing manager. However, the purchase will be approved by the authority specified for the total cost of the procurement, per section 3-104, purchasing limits.
A.
Project manager. For any procurement large enough to require the use of competitive sealed bidding, an officer or employee of the using agency involved in the procurement shall act as project manager. The purchasing manager may assign certain tasks and record keeping requirements related to the procurement. The project manager will keep and make available to the purchasing division all records required for the tasks assigned.
B.
Request for bid advertisement. The using agency shall submit to the purchasing manager, applicable specifications, requirements, justifications and cost center(s) to be charged for the procurement.
C.
Invitation for bids. An invitation for bids shall be issued and shall include specifications and all contractual terms and conditions applicable to the procurement.
D.
Public notice. The public will be given adequate notice of the invitation for bids, provided that, adequate notice shall mean at least 15 business days before the bid opening date, which is stated in the Invitation. The city reserves the right to seek competitive sealed bids in a shorter period, if necessary, as determined by the purchasing manager.
Notice shall be published in a reasonable time before bid opening, contain a description of the procurement in general terms, as well as, the place, date, and time of bid opening, and appear in a newspaper(s) of general circulation, specifically the city's legal organ. In addition to publication in newspapers, notice shall also be made by electronic means, including posting on the Internet and on the city's government access television channel.
Public works construction projects shall be advertised in accordance with Georgia State Law.
The city reserves the right to mail or e-mail invitations directly to vendors under the following circumstances:
− Solicitations for specialized equipment/supplies.
− Solicitations for specialized services.
− Re-bid of solicitations where normal advertising procedures netted no responses.
− Whenever deemed necessary by the purchasing manager.
E.
Bid opening. Bids shall be opened publicly in the presence of one or more witnesses at the time and place stated in the public notice. The amount of each bid, the bidder's name and such other relevant information as the purchasing manager deems appropriate shall be recorded and retained in accordance with Georgia law. The record and each bid shall be open to the public in accordance with Article 3. 301A of the Procurement Ordinance (Public Access to Procurement Information).
F.
Bid receipt and evaluation. Bids shall be unconditionally received without alteration or correction except as authorized in the city's procurement ordinance. Bids shall be evaluated based on requirements set forth in the invitation for bid, which may include criteria to determine acceptability such as inspection, testing, quality, workmanship, delivery, and suitability for a particular purpose. Those criteria that will affect the bid price and be considered in evaluation for award shall be objectively measurable, such as discounts, transportation cost, and total or life-cycle costs. The specifications presented in the invitation for bids shall represent the evaluation criteria. No other criteria may be used to evaluate bids.
G.
Correction or withdrawal of bids; Cancellation of awards. Correction or withdrawal of inadvertently erroneous bids before bid opening, or cancellation of awards or contracts based on such bid mistakes, may be permitted where appropriate. Mistakes discovered before bid opening may be modified or withdrawn by written notice received in the purchasing division.
After bid opening, corrections in bids shall be permitted only to the extent that the bidder can show by clear and convincing evidence that a mistake of a nonjudgmental character was made, the nature of the mistake and the bid price actually intended. After bid opening, no changes in bid prices or other provisions of bids prejudicial to the interest of the city or fair competition shall be permitted. In lieu of bid correction, a low bidder alleging a material mistake of fact may be permitted to withdraw its bid if the mistake is clearly evident on the face of the bid document but the intended correct bid is not similarly evident, or if the bidder submits evidence which clearly and convincingly demonstrate that a mistake was made.
All decisions to permit correction or withdrawal of bids or to cancel awards of contracts based on bid mistakes will be supported by the purchasing manager's written determination.
H.
Receipt of one sealed bid. In the event only one sealed bid is received, no formal bid opening shall take place. First, the Purchasing Division shall conduct a survey of vendors to inquire of "no bid" responses and non-responsive vendors. If, from the survey, it is determined by the purchasing division that specifications need revision, the one bid received will be returned unopened to the vendor, with a letter of explanation and a new bid solicitation prepared. If it is determined that other vendors need to be contacted, the bid due date will be extended, and the one bid received will remain sealed until the new bid opening date. The vendor submitting the single bid will receive a letter of explanation.
If it is determined the one bid received is from the only responsive, responsible bidder, then the bid shall be opened by the purchasing manager or designee, in the presence of at least one other witness. The single bid will be evaluated by the using agency for award recommendation.
I.
Receipt of tie bids. In the event multiple responsive, responsible bidders are tied for the lowest bid price and all other terms and requirements are met by all tied bidders, the award recommendation shall be resolved in the order of the preferences listed below:
1.
Award to the local bidder whose principal place of business is located in Columbus, Georgia.
2.
Award to bidder previously awarded based on favorable prior experience.
3.
Award to bidder whose principle place of business is located in the State of Georgia.
4.
If feasible, divide the award equally among the bidders.
5.
If it is not feasible to award equally and only two bidders are tied, perform a coin toss in the presence of the two bidders, either in person or virtually.
6.
If the above preferences are insufficient to resolve the tie, all bid responses will be rejected and the bid will be re-advertised.
J.
Award. After evaluation of the bids, the using agency will forward a written award recommendation to the purchasing division. The award recommendation shall be reviewed by the purchasing division. The purchasing manager shall approve the recommendation prior to placement on council agenda for council action.
If the low bidder is not recommended for a bid award, the using agency must submit, in writing, the reason(s) the low bidder is not recommended. The purchasing division will notify the low bidder as to why his/her bid is not recommended. The low bidder will be given the opportunity to respond to any, and all reasons their bid is not recommended. Final decisions to accept or reject the responses and to recommend the bid award will rest with the purchasing manager and the using agency.
If the low responsive and responsible bidder exceeds available budgeted funds as certified by the approved budget for the pertinent fiscal year, the purchasing manager is authorized to negotiate an adjustment of the bid price to bring the bid within the amount of available funds. This should only occur when time or economic considerations preclude re-solicitation of work of a reduced scope. Any such negotiated adjustment shall be based only upon eliminating independent deductive items specified in the invitation for bids.
K.
Bid award for procurements $25,000.00 and greater. Any procurement with a total cost $25,000 and greater shall be approved by council action.
3-109.
Annual contracts: Price agreements and service contracts.
(1)
Purpose. Any supplies, materials or contractual services required continuously over a specified time frame shall be considered a candidate for an annual contract. All annual contracts, regardless of the estimated total cost, will be established after the formal bid process or competitive sealed proposal process. Price agreements and service contracts are forms of annual contracts which are used to purchase goods or services used on a regular or continual basis, i.e., uniforms, janitorial supplies, or film. Annual contracts eliminate the time required to obtain price quotations or administer a formal bid each time the need arises and provides a more economic price due to the bulk of the contract agreement with the vendor(s). The term of an annual contract can range from three months to one year. Some annual contracts have renewal options, (usually two renewal options), depending on the commodity.
A.
Price agreement. An annual contract is established as a price agreement when the goods or services can be easily described in measurable terms and a firm unit price can be established (i.e., a pair of shoes at an established unit price per pair).
B.
Service contract. An annual contract is established as a service contract when the goods or services (usually services) cannot be easily described in measurable terms and a firm unit price cannot be established (i.e., a service contract is established for auditing services). Note: Annual contracts may also be established by "piggy-backing" off of a cooperative contract.
(2)
Agency responsibility. All agencies should carefully review any good or service used on a continuous basis to determine if it meets criteria to be placed under an annual contract.
All agencies utilizing an annual contract are required to document and report to the purchasing division any contractual non-performance of the contracted vendor(s). Documentation of the non-performance should be forwarded to the purchasing division within two days of the occurrence. Documentation is essential in the notification process to the vendor to rectify the non-performance. The documentation can be in the form of memos or the current form recommended by the purchasing division.
(3)
Award. All annual contracts shall be approved by council action.
(4)
Contract renewals and extensions.
A.
Contract renewals: Most annual contracts have renewal clauses. If deemed to be in the best interest of the city, the purchasing manager shall be authorized to renew annual contracts which contain renewal clauses. Renewal procedures shall be established by the purchasing division.
B.
Contract extensions: After all contract renewals are exhausted, the purchasing manager shall also be authorized to extend annual contracts, for "cause."
"Cause" will be one of the following: 1) the contract re-bid process has been delayed; 2) the contract re-bid process is interrupted; 3) it is deemed to be in the best interest of the city to extend the contract. contract extensions authorized by the purchasing manager shall be no more than one year. Contract extensions beyond the one-year extension shall be approved by council.
C.
Mutual agreement: Contract renewals and extensions shall be authorized only upon the mutual agreement of the using agency, the purchasing manager and the contractor.
3-110.
Competitive sealed proposals (negotiations).
(1)
Conditions for use. When the purchasing manager determines that the use of competitive sealed bidding for any procurement is either not practicable or not advantageous to the city, a contract may be entered into using the competitive sealed proposals (negotiation) method. In addition, the competitive sealed proposal process shall be used for the procurement of professional services, specialized equipment or supplies.
The competitive sealed proposal process may be used for procurements with an estimated total cost less than $25,000.00, if deemed to be in the best interest of the city. If the total cost can be determined, the authority to approve such solicitations will be as prescribed by article 3-104, purchasing limits. If, due to the required services, a total cost cannot be determined then the award recommendation will be approved by council.
A.
Request for proposals. Proposals shall be solicited through request for proposals. The purchasing division shall establish the specifications with the using agency and set the date and time to receive proposals. The request for proposal shall include a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements for the service or item to be procured.
B.
Public notice. The public will be given adequate notice of the request for proposals, provided that, adequate notice shall mean at least 15 business days before the due date, which is stated in the request. The city reserves the right to seek request for proposals in a shorter period, if necessary, as determined by the purchasing manager.
Notice shall be published in a reasonable time before due date, contain a description of the procurement in general terms, as well as, the place and due date for proposals, and appear in a newspaper(s) of general circulation, specifically the city's legal organ. In addition to publication in newspapers, notice shall also be made by electronic means, including posting on the internet and on the city's government access television channel.
Public works construction projects shall be advertised in accordance with Georgia State Law.
The city reserves the right to mail or e-mail invitations directly to vendors under the following circumstances:
− Solicitations for specialized equipment/supplies.
− Solicitations for specialized services.
− Re-bid of solicitations where normal advertising procedures netted no responses.
− Whenever deemed necessary by the purchasing manager.
C.
Receipt of proposals. Proposals must be received by the deadline date established. No public opening will be held. No proposals shall be handled to permit disclosure of the identity of any offeror or the contents of any proposal to competing offerors during the process of discussion. A register of proposals shall be prepared as part of the contract file, and shall contain the name of each offeror, the number of modifications received (if any), and a description sufficient to identify the item offered. The register of proposals shall be open for public inspection only after contract award.
D.
Evaluation factors. The request for proposals shall identify the relative importance of cost (when applicable) and other evaluation criteria.
E.
Evaluation process. An odd number of voting members of a selection or evaluation committee shall evaluate all proposals received based upon the criteria stated in the request for proposals. Each voting committee member shall grade each submitted proposal based upon the evaluation criteria.
F.
Discussion with responsible offerors and revisions to proposals. As provided in the request for proposals, discussions (negotiations) may be conducted with responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be reasonably susceptible of being selected for award, to assure full understanding of and conformance to the solicitation requirements. All qualified, responsible offerors shall be given fair and equal treatment with respect to any opportunity for discussion and revision of proposals, and such revisions may be permitted after submissions and prior to award for the purpose of obtaining best and final offers. In conducting discussions, there shall be no disclosure of the identity of competing offerors or any information derived from proposals submitted by competing offerors. If only one proposal response is received, then the award recommendation shall be to the single offeror, if the offeror meets all requirements.
G.
Award. After negotiations, the award recommendation must be presented to Columbus City Council for final approval. Award will be made to the responsible offeror whose proposal is determined to be the most advantageous to the city, taking into consideration total cost (if determined) and all other evaluation factors set forth in the request for proposals.
After council approval, a contract based on the negotiations (if negotiations were necessary) will be drawn and signed by all necessary parties. If council does not approve the award, it may direct that further negotiations may take place with the recommended offeror, or that negotiations begin with the next most qualified offeror. Council may also exercise the option to reject all offers and instruct the purchasing manager to begin the procurement process again. The contract file shall contain the basis on which the award is made.
After contract award, the contract file, will be made public. Unsuccessful offerors will be afforded the opportunity to make an appointment with the purchasing division for a debriefing. After the award, the contract file and the unsuccessful proposals will become subject to disclosure under the Georgia Open Records Act.
3-111.
Architectural/engineering and land surveying services.
(1)
Purpose. All architectural/engineering and land surveying services, regardless of the estimated value of the contract or project, will be procured through the use of competitive sealed proposals.
Except as provided under article 3-114, only known source procurement, 3-115, emergency procurements, or 3-118 state contracts and other cooperative contracts, procurements for architectural/engineering or land surveying services will be governed by the guidelines in above article 3-110, with the following modifications in this section:
A.
Request for proposals. The cost of services shall not be a required element in proposals for architectural/engineering and land surveying.
3-112.
Request for qualifications.
(1)
Purpose. For the procurement of services where the qualifications of the firm, or its principals are central to the services performed or equipment required, the initial step may be the issuance of a request for qualifications (RFQ). A request for qualifications allows the city to receive qualification statements from interested vendors. Cost estimates are not required.
A.
Request for qualifications. Submissions or statement of qualifications shall be solicited through request for qualifications. The request for qualifications shall include a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements for the service or item intended to be procured. The RFQ shall also set the date and time to receive submissions.
B.
Public notice. Adequate public notice of the request for qualification shall be given in the same manner as provided under the section titled "competitive sealed bids."
C.
Receipt of qualifications statements. Qualifications statements must be received by the deadline date established in the RFQ. No public opening will be held. No submissions shall be handled to permit disclosure of the identity of any offeror or the contents of any proposal to competing offerors during the process of discussion. A register of submissions shall be prepared as part of the contract file, and shall contain the name of each offeror, the number of modifications received (if any), and a description sufficient to identify the item offered. The register of submissions shall be open for public inspection only after contract award.
D.
Evaluation factors. The request for qualifications shall identify the relative importance of each evaluation criteria.
E.
Review and evaluation process. Review of submittals will be conducted by a committee consisting of various stakeholders. Based upon the predetermined rating criteria contained in the RFQ, each voting member of the committee will perform an evaluation and assign a rating for each submittal.
Based on the composite ratings of the submissions, the committee may short-list, at least, the three most qualified firms to receive an invitation to respond to a request for proposal or competitive sealed bid.
If fewer than three vendors respond, the committee may decide to do one of the following:
− Cancel the RFQ. Revise the requirements and re-issue.
− Send request for proposals or invitation for bids to the respondents.
− Contingent upon the services required, contract award could be recommended to the highest ranked vendor or only vendor, as a direct result of the RFQ process and negotiations. The award recommendation must be approved by city council.
3-113.
Request for information.
(1)
Purpose. In some instances, the using agency may have a general idea of the good or service required, but due to new technology or lack of technical or specialized knowledge in a particular area, the agency may not be able to develop adequate specifications. In such cases the using agency will solicit, through the purchasing division, a request for information (RFI). The purchasing division shall develop general procedures for the request for information.
3-114.
Only known source (sole source) procurement.
(1)
Purpose. A contract may be awarded without competition if the purchasing manager determines, after conducting a good-faith review of available sources, that there is only one known source for the required supply or service. The purchasing manager (or designee) shall conduct negotiations on price, delivery, and terms as appropriate. A record of only known source procurements shall be maintained as public record and shall list each contractor's name, the amount and type of each purchase, the item (s) procured, and the number identifying each procurement. The final award approval for only known source procurements shall align with articles 3-106, 3-107 and 3-108, per the dollar amount of the only known source.
(2)
Procurements from $1,001.00 up to and including $5,000.00. Any agency wishing to make purchases from $1,001.00 up to and including $5,000.00 by using only known source procurement must have the approval of the purchasing manager. Written documentation must be submitted to purchasing by the using agency to justify the procurement.
3-115.
Emergency procurement.
(1)
Purpose. Regardless of any other provision of the procurement ordinance, the city manager may make or authorize others to make emergency procurements of supplies, equipment, services, or construction services when there exists a threat to public health, welfare, or safety; or other exigent circumstances as specified by the city manager.
Such emergency procurement shall be made with such competition as is practical under the circumstances. A written determination of the basis for the emergency and for the selection of a particular contractor shall be included in the contract file. As soon as practicable, a record of each emergency procurement shall be made and shall set forth the contractor's name, the amount and type of the contract, a list of the item(s) procured, and the number identifying the contract file. When the emergency procurement procedure is used for purchases $25,000.00 or greater, the city manager will report the nature of the emergency and the vendor, item(s) purchased, price, and recommended funding source to the mayor and council at the next regular council meeting. This information is for public records and does not require council approval.
3-116.
Cancellation/rejection of solicitations.
(1)
Purpose. An invitation for bid, request for proposal, or other solicitation may be canceled, or any or all bids, proposals or responses rejected in whole or in part, at the discretion of the city for any reason whatsoever. The reasons for the cancellation shall be made part of the contract file. Notice of cancellation shall be sent to all businesses solicited or that responded. The notice shall identify the solicitation, give the reasons for the cancellation, and when appropriate state that an opportunity will be given to compete on any re-solicitation or similar procurement in the future.
Reasons for rejection will be provided to unsuccessful bidders or offerors.
3-117.
Awards to local businesses. Except for construction contracts, federally funded projects, request for proposals and request for qualifications, awards will be made to responsive and responsible local businesses proposing a cost not more than two percent above the low bid or quote for contracts involving an expenditure less than or equal to $25,000.00; and made to responsive and responsible local businesses proposing a cost not more than one percent above the low bid or quote for contracts involving an expenditure greater than $25,000.00.
3-118.
State contracts and other cooperative contracts.
(1)
Purpose. The State of Georgia Administrative Services Division secures state contracts for numerous commodities. The city will utilize state contracts when it is deemed to be in the best interest of the city. State contracts may be utilized when time constraints deem it more prudent than the city initiating a competitive sealed quote or competitive sealed bid.
Other cooperative contracts may be used for the same purposes as stated above.
A competitive sealed quote or competitive sealed bid may be administered to compare pricing, product, warranty etc. with a state contract or other cooperative contract. If the state contract or other cooperative contract price is lower and meets all other requirements the purchase will be made via the contract and the competitive sealed quote or competitive sealed bid will be cancelled; submitting vendors will be notified of the reason for the cancellation.
Additionally, state contracts and other cooperative contracts may be utilized in lieu of administering request for proposals, request for qualifications or request for information when deemed to be in the best interest of the city.
3-119.
Reimbursement to employees.
(1)
Scope. Reimbursements to city employees for personal funds expended will be made only under the following circumstances:
A.
Personal funds utilized during job related travel. Documentation must be provided to financial planning in the current form prescribed).
B.
Personal funds utilized to purchase goods or supplies in the event of an emergency which is job related. Receipts must be attached to the reimbursement request, accompanied by a memo of explanation of the expenditure addressed to the purchasing manager. An emergency shall be as described in article 3-115, emergency procurement. If the expenditure is deemed not to be an emergency, the employee will not be reimbursed.
Part B: Qualifications and Duties of Bidders
3-201.
Responsiveness and responsibility of bidders and offerors
(1)
Determination of non-responsive and non-responsible bidder. If a bidder or offeror who otherwise would have been awarded a contract is found to be non- responsive and or non-responsible, the purchasing manager shall write a determination of such, stating the basis for the finding, send it promptly to the bidder and make it a part of the contract file and a public record. Unreasonable failure of a bidder or offeror to supply information promptly in connection with such finding may be grounds for a determination of non-responsiveness and non-responsibility.
(2)
Disclosure: All documents associated with the findings will become part of the contract file and subject to disclosure under the Georgia Open Records Act once the determination is completed.
3-202.
Cost or pricing data.
(1)
Required submissions relating to award of contracts. A prospective contractor shall submit cost or pricing data when the contract is to be awarded by competitive sealed proposals [under] section 3-110 (competitive sealed proposals) or by only known source procurement authority [under] section 3-114 (only known source (sole-source) procurement).
(2)
Exceptions. The submission of cost or pricing date relating to the award of a contract is not required when:
a.
The contract price is based on adequate competition,
b.
The contract price is based on established catalogue prices or market prices,
c.
The contract price is set by law or regulation; or
d.
The purchasing manager determines in writing that the requirements of subsection (1) above may be waived, stating the reasons for such waiver.
Such waiver may be made only with the approval of the finance director and city manager.
(3)
Required submissions relating to change orders or contract modifications. A contractor shall submit cost or pricing data prior to the pricing of any change order or contract modification including adjustments to contracts awarded by competitive sealed bidding.
(4)
Exceptions. The submission of cost or pricing data relating to the pricing of a change order or contract modification is not required when:
a.
Unrelated, separately priced adjustments for which cost, or pricing data would not be required are consolidated for administrative convenience; or
b.
The purchasing manager determines in writing that the requirements of subsection (3) above may be waived, stating the reasons for such waiver.
Such waiver may be made only with the approval of the finance director and city manager.
(5)
Certification required. A contractor, actual or prospective, required to submit cost or pricing data in accordance with this section shall certify that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, the cost or pricing data submitted was accurate, complete and current as of a mutually specified date prior to the award of the contract or the pricing of the change order or contract modification.
(6)
Price adjustment provision required. Any contract award, change order, or contract modification requiring the submission and certification of cost or pricing data shall contain a provision stating that the price to the city, including profit or fee, shall be adjusted to exclude any significant sums by which the city finds such price was increased because cost or pricing data furnished by the contractor were inaccurate, incomplete, or not currant as of the date agreed upon between the city and the contractor.
3-203.
Cost or price analysis.
(1)
A cost analysis or price analysis, as appropriate, shall be conducted prior to award of any procurement contract not awarded under section 3-108 (competitive sealed bidding). A written record of such coat or price analysis shall be part of the contract file.
(2)
Cost analysis includes the appropriate verification of cost or pricing data and the use of this data, as well as any available historical comparative date, to evaluate:
a.
Specific elements of cost,
b.
The necessity of certain costs,
c.
The reasonableness of amounts estimated for the necessary costs,
d.
The reasonableness of allowance for contingencies,
e.
The basis used for allocation of indirect costs,
f.
The appropriateness of allocations of particular indirect costs to the proposed contract, and
g.
The reasonableness of the total cost or price.
(3)
Price analysis determines if a price is reasonable and acceptable. It involves an evaluation of prices for the same or similar items or services. Criteria used in price analysis include but are not limited to:
a.
Price submissions of prospective bidders or offerors in the current procurement,
b.
Prior price quotations and contract prices charged by the bidder, offeror, or contractor,
c.
Prices published in catalogues or price lists,
d.
Prices available on the open market; and
e.
In-house estimates of cost.
Considerations must be given to any differing terms and conditions.
3-204.
Bonding on supply and service contracts. Bid and performance bonds or other security may be requested for supply or services contracts as the procurement manager (or the head of the using agency) deems advisable to protect the city's interests. Any such bonding requirements shall be set forth in the solicitation. Bid or performance bonds shall not substitute for a determination of a bidder's or offeror's responsibility. Complete file folders containing all transactions, including bonds, related to each bid will be maintained in the purchasing division.
Part C: Types of Contracts and Contract Administration
3-301.
Types of contracts
(1)
General authority. Subject to the limitations of this section and applicable laws and regulations, any type of contract which is appropriate to the procurement and which will promote the best interests of the Consolidated Government of Columbus, Georgia may be used.
(2)
Multiterm contract.
a.
Specified period. Unless otherwise provided by law, a contract for supplies or services may be entered into for any time period deemed to be in the city's best interest, provided such period and any renewal or extension conditions are stated in the solicitation, and funds are available for the first fiscal period at the time of contracting. Performance and payment obligations for later fiscal periods shall be subject to funds availability and appropriation.
b.
Determination prior to use. Before a multi-term contract is used, it shall be determined in writing that estimated requirements cover the period of the contract and are reasonable firm and continuing, and that such a contract will serve the best interests of the city by encouraging affective competition or other promoting cost-effective procurement, and be a multi-year governmental contract that is permitted by Georgia Law.
c.
Cancellation Due to unavailability of funds in later fiscal periods. When funds are not appropriated or otherwise made available to support continuation of performance in a later fiscal period, the contract shall be cancelled, and the contractor may be reimbursed for the reasonable value of goods and services already provided. Such cancellation costs may be paid from any funds appropriated and available for such purposes
(3)
Multiple-source contracting.
a.
General. A multiple-source award is an award of an indefinite-quantity contract for one or more similar supplies or services to more than one bidder or offeror.
b.
Limitations on use. A multiple-source award may be made when award to two or more bidders or offerors for similar products is necessary for adequate delivery, service, or product compatibility. Any multiple-source award shall be made in accordance with sections 3-108 (competitive sealed bidding), 3-110 (competitive sealed proposals), 3-105 (small purchases), and 3-115 (emergency procurements) as applicable. Multiple-source awards shall not be made when a single award will meet the city's needs without sacrifice of economy or service. Awards shall not be made for the purpose of dividing the business, making available product or supplier selection to allow for user preference unrelated to utility or economy, or avoiding the resolution of the bids. Any such awards shall be limited to the least number of suppliers necessary to meet all valid procurement requirements.
c.
Contract and solicitation provisions. All eligible using agencies of the contract shall be named in the solicitation. It shall be mandatory that the actual requirements of such using agencies which can be met under the contract as obtained in accordance with the contract, provided that the city shall reserve the right to take bids separately if a particular quantity is required or an amount is specified in the contract, or the purchasing manager approved a finding that the supply or service available under the contract will not meet a nonrecurring special need of the consolidated government.
d.
Intent to use. If a multiple-source award is anticipated before issuing a solicitation, the city will state all criteria for award in such solicitation and reserve the right to make such an award therein.
e.
Justification. The purchasing manager, and or requesting agencies, shall make a written determination, which shall be made a part of the procurement file, setting forth the reasons for any multiple-source award.
3-302.
Contract clauses and their administration.
(1)
Contract clauses. All city contracts for supplies services, and construction shall include provisions necessary to define the responsibilities and rights of the parties to the contract. Additionally, any clauses required by federal or state laws or regulations shall also be included in every applicable contract.
3-304.
Contract administration. A contract administration system designed to ensure that every contractor is performing in accordance with the solicitation under which the contract was awarded, as well as, all contract terms and conditions, shall be maintained.
3-305.
Right to inspect plant and/or worksite.The city may, at reasonable times, inspect such portion of any plant, place of business, or worksite of a contractor (or any subcontractor at any tier) as may be pertinent to the performance of any contract awarded or to be awarded by the city.
3-306.
Reporting of anticompetitive practices. When, for any reason, collusion or other anticompetitive practices are suspected among any bidders or offerors, a notice of the relevant facts shall be transmitted to the state attorney general and the appropriate legal office for the jurisdiction(s) conducting and/or financially involved in the procurement.
3-307.
City procurement records.
(1)
Contract file. All determinations and other written records related to the solicitation, award, or performance of a contract shall be maintained for the city in a contract file by the purchasing manager.
(2)
Retention of procurement records. All procurement records shall be retained and disposed of by the city in accordance with the established records retention guidelines and schedules, according to federal, state or city rules and regulations, applicable for a particular procurement.
ARTICLE 4. SPECIFICATIONS
Part A: Objectives and Types of Specifications
4-101.
Maximum practicable competition. All specifications shall be drafted so as to promote overall economy in the purpose intended and encourage competition in satisfying the city's needs and shall not be unduly restrictive. The policy enunciated in this section applies to all specifications, including but not limited to those prepared for the city by architects, engineers, draftspersons, or other non-employees.
4-102.
Brand name or equal specification.
(1)
Use. Brand name or equal specifications may be used when the purchasing manager determines in writing that no other design or performance specification or qualified products list is available, time does not permit the preparation of another form of purchase description, without a brand name type of specification, the nature of the product or of the city's requirements makes using a brand name or equal specification suitable for the procurement, or use of a brand name or equal specification is in the city's best interest. It is not intended that the prior written determination required for the use of a brand name of equal specification will impose an undue administrative burden. Rather, it is designed to capture the important management decision to use this specification type. Such determination may be made for categories of supply, service, or construction items, or (in appropriate circumstances) for an entire procurement action, even though a number of different items are being procured.
(2)
Designation of several brand names.Brand name or equal specifications shall seek to designate three brands, or as many different brands as are practicable, as "or equal" references and shall further state that substantially equivalent products to those designated will be considered for award.
4-103.
Brand name specifications.
(1)
Use. Since use of a brand name specification restricts competition, it may be used only when the using agency has provided a written justification that only the identified brand name item(s) will satisfy the city's needs. After performing research to determine the validity, the purchasing manager will make the final decision.
(2)
Competition. The purchasing manager shall seek to identify sources from which the designated brand name item(s) can be obtained and shall solicit such sources to achieve whatever degree of price competition is practicable. If only one source can supply the requirement, the procurement shall be made under section 3-114 (only known source (sole-source) procurement.
ARTICLE 5. CONSTRUCTION PROCUREMENTS
Part A: Management of Construction Contracting
5-101.
Selecting methods.
(1)
The purchasing manager, in consultation with the city's designated project engineer shall have discretion to select the appropriate method of construction contracting management for a particular project. In determining which method to use, the purchasing manager shall consider the city's requirements and resources, and the potential contractor's capabilities. The purchasing manager shall include in the contract file a written statement of the facts leading to the selection of the particular method of construction contracting management for each project.
(2)
DBE participation. For projects in which state or federal funds are not used, the city has an aspirational ten percent DBE participation goal. Bidders are encouraged to make a good faith effort to meet or exceed the goal by utilizing the services of DBE subcontractors in any area possible.
a.
The city reserves the right to request bidders seek additional DBE participation if the bidders DBE participation goal is less than ten percent.
b.
In the event a DBE subcontractor is unavailable or unable to perform any portion of a project, the bidder may be responsible for providing enough information to enable the city to determine whether efforts to contact DBE subcontractors were made in good-faith.
c.
If awarded the contract, the bidder should utilize the DBE subcontractors listed in the bidder's submittal. Any changes to DBE utilization should be approved by the purchasing division.
Part B: Bid Security and Performance Bonds
5-201.
Bid security
(1)
Requirement for bid security. Bid security shall be required for all competitive sealed bids for construction contracts when the price is estimated by the purchasing manager to exceed $25,000.00. Bid security shall be a bond provided by a surety company authorized to do business in the state, or other form satisfactory to the city. Such bonds may also be required on construction contracts under $25,000.00 or other procurement contracts when circumstances warrant.
(2)
Amount of bid security. Bid security shall be in an amount equal to at least five percent of the bid amount.
(3)
Rejection of bids for noncompliance with bid security requirements. When the invitation for bids requires security, noncompliance with such requirement shall force rejection of a bid.
(4)
Withdrawal of bids. If a bidder is permitted to withdraw its bid before award as provided in section 3-108 subsection (G) (competitive sealed bidding—correction or withdrawal of bids: cancellation of awards), no action shall be had against the bidder or the bid security.
5-202.
Contract performance and payment bonds.
(1)
When required: Amounts. When a construction contract is awarded in excess of $25,000, the following bonds or security shall be delivered to the city, and shall be binding on the parties upon the execution of the contract:
a.
A performance bond satisfactory to the city executed by a surely company authorized to do business in the state, or otherwise secured in a manner satisfactory to the city, amounting to 100 percent of the price specified in the contract; and
b.
A payment bond satisfactory to the city executed by a surety company authorized to do business in the state or otherwise secured in a manner satisfactory to the city, to protect all persons supplying labor and material to the contractor or its subcontractors for the performance of the work provided for in the contract, amounting to 100 percent of the price specified in the contract.
At the discretion of the purchasing manager, this same condition may be placed on awards of any amount.
(2)
Authority to require additional bonds. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of the city to require a performance bond or other security in addition to the bonds, in circumstances other than the circumstances described in subsection (1) above.
5-203.
Copies of bond forms. Any person may request and obtain from the city a certified copy of a bond upon payment of the cost of reproduction of the bond and postage, if any. A certified copy of a bond shall be a prime facie evidence of the contents, execution, and delivery of the original.
Part C: Fiscal Responsibility Change Orders/Modifications
5-301.
Fiscal responsibility—Change orders.
(1)
The city manager is authorized to sign change orders to construction contracts in an aggregate amount not to exceed ten percent of the original contract amount in order to provide payments for unforeseen construction costs. Changes not directly related to the progress or completion of the project, but designated as non-essential, shall be authorized by city council.
Development costs for a project should be viewed as having a project budget which includes architectural, engineering or consulting costs, construction costs, and a ten percent contingency cost.
(2)
Every contract modification, change order, or contract price adjustment to construction contracts with the city that exceeds an aggregate ten percent of the original contract amount shall be subject to prior approval by the city council, which shall first receive a report from the appropriate fiscal officer to the effect of the contract modification, change order, or contract price adjustment on the total project budget or the total contract budget.
Part D: Procurement requirements for projects using Federal Aid Highway Program (FAHP) funding
Except as provided in sections 5-402 and 5-403 below, the Columbus Consolidated Government shall use the competitive negotiation method for the procurement of engineering and design related services when FAHP funds are involved in the contract (as specified in 23 U.S.C. 112 (b)(2)(A)). The solicitation, evaluation, ranking, selection, and negotiation shall comply with the qualifications-based selection procurement procedures for architectural and engineering services codified under 40 U.S.C. 1101-1104, commonly referred to as the Brooks Act.
5-401.
Competitive negotiation qualification-based selection. In accordance with the requirements of the Brooks Act, the following procedures shall apply to the competitive negotiation procurement method:
(1)
Solicitation. The solicitation process shall be by public announcement, public advertisement, or any other public forum or method that assures qualified in-state and out-of-state consultants are given a fair opportunity to be considered for award of the contract. Procurement procedures may involve a single step process with issuance of a request for proposal (RFP) to all interested consultants or a multiphase process with issuance of a request for statements or letters of interest or qualifications (RFQ) whereby responding consultants are ranked based on qualifications and request for proposals are then provided to three or more of the most highly qualified consultants. Minimum qualifications of consultants to perform services under general work categories or areas of expertise may also be assessed through prequalification process whereby statements of qualifications are submitted on an annual basis. Regardless of any process utilized for prequalification of consultants or for an initial assessment of a consultant's qualifications under an RFQ, an RFP specific to the project, task, or service is required for evaluation of a consultant's specific technical approach and qualifications.
(2)
Request for proposal (RFP). The RFP shall provide all information and requirements necessary for interested consultants to provide a response to the RFP and compete for the solicited services. The RFP shall:
(A)
Provide a clear, accurate, and detailed description of the scope of work, technical requirements, and qualifications of consultants necessary for the services to be rendered. The scope of work should detail the purpose and description of the project, services to be performed, deliverables to be provided, estimated schedule for performance of the work, and applicable standards, specifications, and policies;
(B)
Identify the requirements for any discussions that may be conducted with three or more of the most highly qualified consultants following submission and evaluation of proposals;
(C)
Identify evaluation factors including their relative weight of importance in accordance with subparagraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section;
(D)
Specify the contract type and method(s) of payment to be utilized in accordance with § 172.9;
(E)
Identify any special provisions or contract requirements associated with the solicited services;
(F)
Require that submission of any requested cost proposals or elements of cost be in a concealed format and separate from technical/qualifications proposals as these shall not be considered in the evaluation, ranking, and selection phase; and
(G)
Provide a schedule of key dates for the procurement process and establish a submittal deadline for responses to the RFP which provides sufficient time for interested consultants to receive notice, prepare, and submit a proposal, which except in unusual circumstances shall be not less than 14 days from the date of issuance of the RFP.
(3)
Evaluation factors.
(A)
Criteria used for evaluation, ranking, and selection of consultants to perform engineering and design related services must assess the demonstrated competence and qualifications for the type of professional services solicited. These qualifications-based factors may include, but are not limited to, technical approach (e.g., project understanding, innovative concepts or alternatives, quality control procedures), work experience, specialized expertise, professional licensure, staff capabilities, workload capacity, and past performance.
(B)
Price shall not be used as a factor in the evaluation, ranking, and selection phase. All price or cost related items which include, but are not limited to, cost proposals, direct salaries/wage rates, indirect cost rates, and other direct costs are prohibited from being used as evaluation criteria.
(C)
In-state or local preference shall not be used as a factor in the evaluation, ranking, and selection phase. State licensing laws are not preempted by this provision and professional licensure within a jurisdiction may be established as a requirement which attests to the minimum qualifications and competence of a consultant to perform the solicited services.
(D)
The following non-qualifications based evaluation criteria are permitted under the specified conditions and provided the combined total of these criteria do not exceed a nominal value of ten percent of the total evaluation criteria to maintain the integrity of a qualifications-based selection:
(i)
A local presence may be used as a nominal evaluation factor where appropriate. This criterion shall not be based on political or jurisdictional boundaries and may be applied on a project-by-project basis for contracts where a need has been established for a consultant to provide a local presence, a local presence will add value to the quality and efficiency of the project, and application of this criteria leaves an appropriate number of qualified consultants, given the nature and size of the project. If a consultant outside of the locality area indicates as part of a proposal that it will satisfy the criteria in some manner, such as establishing a local project office, that commitment shall be considered to have satisfied the local presence criteria.
(ii)
The participation of qualified and certified disadvantaged business enterprise (DBE) sub-consultants may be used as a nominal evaluation criterion where appropriate in accordance with 49 CFR Part 26 and the Columbus Consolidated Government's FHWA-approved DBE program.
(4)
Evaluation, ranking, and selection.
(A)
Consultant proposals shall be evaluated by the Columbus Consolidated Government based on the criteria established and published within the public solicitation.
(B)
While the contract will be with the prime consultant, proposal evaluations shall consider the qualifications of the prime consultant and any sub-consultants identified within the proposal with respect to the scope of work and established criteria.
(C)
Following submission and evaluation of proposals, the Columbus Consolidated Government shall conduct interviews or other types of discussions determined three of the most highly qualified consultants to clarify the technical approach, qualifications, and capabilities provided in response to the RFP. Discussion requirements shall be specified within the RFP and should be based on the size and complexity of the project as defined in Columbus Consolidated Government written policies and procedures (as specified in § 172.5(c)). Discussions may be written, by telephone, video conference, or by oral presentation/interview. Discussions following proposal submission are not required provided proposals contain sufficient information for evaluation of technical approach and qualifications to perform the specific project, task, or service with respect to established criteria.
(D)
From the proposal evaluation and any subsequent discussions which have been conducted, the Columbus Consolidated Government shall rank, in order of preference, at least three consultants determined most highly qualified to perform the solicited services based on the established and published criteria.
(E)
Notification must be provided to responding consultants of the final ranking of the three most highly qualified consultants.
(F)
The Columbus Consolidated Government shall retain acceptable documentation of the solicitation, proposal, evaluation, and selection of the consultant accordance with the provisions of 49 CFR 18.42.
(5)
Negotiation.
(A)
Independent estimate. Prior to receipt or review of the most highly qualified consultant's cost proposal, the Columbus Consolidated Government shall prepare a detailed independent estimate with an appropriate breakdown of the work or labor hours, types or classifications of labor required, other direct costs, and consultant's fixed fee for the defined scope of work. The independent estimate shall serve as the basis for negotiation and ensuring the consultant services are obtained at a fair and reasonable cost.
(B)
Elements of contract costs (e. g., indirect cost rates, direct salary or wage rates, fixed fee, and other direct costs) shall be established separately in accordance with § 172.11.
(C)
If concealed cost proposals were submitted in conjunction with technical/qualifications proposals, only the cost proposal of the consultant with which negotiations are initiated may be considered. Concealed cost proposals of consultants with which negotiations are not initiated should be returned to the respective consultant due to the confidential nature of this data (as specified in 23 U.S.C. 11 2 (b)(2) (E)).
(D)
The Columbus Consolidated Government shall retain documentation • of negotiation activities and resources used in the analysis of costs to establish elements of the contract in accordance with the provisions of 49 CFR 18.42. This documentation shall include the consultant cost certification and documentation supporting the acceptance of the indirect cost rate to be applied to the contract (as specified in § 172.11 (c)).
5-402.
Small purchases. The small purchase method involves procurement of engineering and design related services where an adequate number of qualified sources are reviewed and the total contract costs do not exceed an established simplified acquisition threshold. The Columbus Consolidated Government may use the state's small purchase procedures which reflect applicable state laws and regulations for the procurement of engineering and design related services provided the total contract costs do not exceed the federal simplified acquisition threshold (as specified in 48 CFR 2 . 101). When a lower threshold for use of small purchase procedures is established in state law, regulation, or policy, the lower threshold shall apply to the use of FAHP funds. The following additional requirements shall apply to the small purchase procurement method:
(A)
The scope of work, project phases, and contract requirements shall not be broken down into smaller components merely to permit the use of small purchase procedures.
(B)
A minimum of three consultants are required to satisfy the adequate number of qualified sources reviewed.
(C)
Contract costs may be negotiated in accordance with state small purchase procedures; however, the allow ability of costs shall be determined in accordance with the federal cost principles.
(D)
The full amount of any contract modification or amendment that would cause the total contract amount to exceed the established simplified acquisition threshold would be ineligible for federal-aid funding. The FHWA may withdraw all federal-aid from a contract if it is modified or amended above the applicable established simplified acquisition threshold.
5-403.
Noncompetitive method. The noncompetitive method involves procurement of engineering and design related services when it is not feasible to award the contract using competitive negotiation or small purchase procurement methods. The following requirements shall apply to the noncompetitive procurement method:
(A)
The Columbus Consolidated Government may use their own noncompetitive procedures which reflect applicable state and local laws and regulations and conform to applicable federal requirements.
(B)
The Columbus Consolidated Government shall establish a process to determine when noncompetitive procedures will be used and shall submit justification to, and receive approval from, the FHWA before using this form of contracting.
(C)
Circumstances under which a contract may be awarded by noncompetitive procedures are limited to the following:
(i)
The service is available only from a single source;
(ii)
There is an emergency which will not permit the time necessary to conduct competitive negotiations; or
(iii)
After solicitation of a number of sources, competition is determined to be inadequate.
(D)
Contract costs may be negotiated in accordance with the Columbus Consolidated Government noncompetitive procedures; however, the allowability of costs shall be determined in accordance with the federal cost principles.
5-404.
Additional procurement requirements.
(1)
Common grant rule.
(A)
The Columbus Consolidated Government must comply with procurement requirements established in state and local laws, regulations, policies, and procedures which are not addressed by or in conflict with applicable federal laws and regulations (as specified in 49 CFR 18. 36).
(B)
When state and local procurement laws, regulations, policies, or procedures are in conflict with applicable federal laws and regulations, the Columbus Consolidated Government must comply with federal requirements to be eligible for federal-aid reimbursement of the associated costs of the services incurred following FHWA authorization (as specified in 49 CFR 18.4).
(2)
Disadvantaged business enterprise (DBE) program.
(A)
The Columbus Consolidated Government shall give consideration to DBE consultants in the procurement of engineering and design related service contracts subject to 23 U.S.C. 112(b)(2) in accordance with 49 CFR part 26. When DBE program participation goals cannot be met through race-neutral measures, additional DBE participation on engineering and design related services contracts may be achieved in accordance with the Columbus Consolidated Government's FHWA approved DBE program through either:
(i)
Use of an evaluation criterion in the qualifications-based selection of consultants (as specified in § 172.7(a)(1)(iii)(D)); or;
(ii)
Establishment of a contract participation goal.
(B)
The use of quotas or exclusive set-asides for DBE consultants is prohibited (as specified in 49 CFR 26.4
(3)
Suspension and debarment. The Columbus Consolidated Government must verify suspension and debarment actions and eligibility status of consultants and subconsultants prior to entering into an agreement or contract in accordance with 49 CFR 18.35 and 2 CFR part 180.
Part E: Procurement Requirements for METRA Projects using Federal Transportation Act (FTA) Funding
5-501.
METRA's procurement policies and procedures. For all METRA procurements using FTA funding, the Columbus Consolidated Government shall comply with Part 200 of Title 2, Subtitle A of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, and the requirements of FTA Circular 4220.1F. METRA's Procurement Policies and Procedures includes the requirements of Part 200 and may be amended from time to time to incorporate updated federal requirements. A copy of METRA's Procurement Policies and Procedures, together with any updated version, will remain on file with the clerk of council. METRA will continue to adhere to the CCG Procurement Ordinance. If there is a conflict in the provisions of federal and CCG policy, METRA will comply with the more stringent requirement.
ARTICLE 6. DEBARMENT OR SUSPENSION
Part A: Procedures
6-101.
Authority to debar or suspend.
(1)
Debarment. After reasonable notice to the person involved and reasonable opportunity for that person to be heard, and after consulting with the city attorney, the purchasing manager is authorized to debar a person from consideration for award of contracts for cause. Debarment shall be for a period of not more than three years. Causes for debarment include:
a.
Conviction for commission of a criminal offense as an incident to obtaining or attempting to obtain a public or private contract or subcontract, or in the performance of such contract or subcontract,
b.
Conviction under state or federal laws for embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, receiving stolen property, or any other offense indicating a lack of business honesty which currently, seriously, and directly affects responsibility as a city contractor;
c.
Conviction under state or federal anti-trust laws arising out of the submission of bids or proposals,
d.
Violation of contract provisions as set forth below, of a character regarded by the purchasing manager to be so serious as to justify debarment action:
i.
Deliberate failure, without good cause, to perform in accordance with the specifications or the time limit stated in the contract; or
ii.
A recent record of failure to perform or unsatisfactory performance in accordance with the terms of one or more contracts, provided that failure to perform or unsatisfactory performance caused by the acts beyond the control of the contractor shall not be considered to be a basis for debarment; or
e.
Any other cause the purchasing manager determines to be so serious and compelling as to affect responsibility as a city contractor, including debarment by another governmental entity for any cause listed in this ordinance.
(2)
Suspension. After reasonable notice to the person involved and reasonable opportunity for that person to be heard, and after consulting with the city attorney, the purchasing manager is authorized to suspend a person from consideration for award of contracts if there is probable cause to believe that the person has engaged in any activity which might lead to debarment. Suspension shall be for a period not to exceed three months.
6-102.
Decision to debar or suspend. The purchasing manager shall issue a written decision to debar or suspend. The decision shall state the reasons for the action taken and inform the debarred or suspended person involved of its rights concerning judicial or administrative review.
6-103.
Notice of decision. A copy of the decision required by section 6-102 above shall be mailed or otherwise furnished immediately to the debarred or suspended person.
6-104.
Finality of decision. A decision under section 6-102 above shall be final and conclusive unless fraudulent, or unless the debarred or suspended person within ten days after receipt of the decision takes an appeal to the city council or commences a timely action in court in accordance with applicable law.
ARTICLE 7. SURPLUS MANAGEMENT
Part A: Procedures
7-101.
Supply management regulations required. The purchasing manager shall promulgate regulations governing management of supplies during their entire life cycle: sale, donation, lease or disposal of such surplus supplies by public auction, competitive sealed bidding, or other appropriate method designated by regulation: and the transfer of excess supplies.
7-102.
Records and proceeds. Unless otherwise provided by law, the purchasing manager shall turn all records of and proceeds from the sale, donation, ease, or disposal of surplus supplies over to the accounting manager and finance director.
ARTICLE 8. APPEALS AND REMEDIES
Part A: Types and Procedures
8-101.
Right to protest
(1)
Right of protest. Any actual or prospective bidder offeror, or contractor who is aggrieved in connection with a solicitation or award of a contract may protest to the purchasing manager initially. All protests shall be filed in the manner prescribed herein. Protests that do not comply with the following rules shall be deemed invalid and of no effect.
(2)
The protest must be in writing, executed by a company officer that is authorized to execute agreements on behalf of the bidder or offeror or provided by an authorized legal representative of the protestor.
(3)
A protest with respect to an invitation for bids or request for proposals shall be submitted in writing no less than five business days prior to the opening of bids or the closing date of proposals or qualification statements.
(4)
Stay of procurement during protests. If there is a timely protest submitted as described above, the purchasing manager shall not proceed further with the solicitation or award of the contract until all administrative remedies have been exhausted or until the city council, mayor, or city manager makes a determination on the record that the award of the contract without delay is necessary to protect substantial interests of the city.
8-102.
Contract claims.
(1)
Decision of the purchasing manager. All claims by a contractor against the city relating to a contract, except bid protests, shall be submitted in writing to the purchasing manager for a decision. The contractor may request a conference with the purchasing manager on the claim. Claims include, but are not limited to, disputes arising under a contract and those based upon breach of contract, mistake, misrepresentation, or other cause for contract modification or rescission.
(2)
Notice to the contractor of the purchasing manager's decision. After any requested conference and a full review of the matter, the purchasing manager shall promptly issue a written decision which shall immediately be mailed or otherwise furnished to the contractor. The decision shall state the reasons for the decision reached and shall inform the contractor of its appeal rights under subsection (3) below.
(3)
Finality of purchasing manager's decision: Contractor's right to appeal. The purchasing manager's decision shall be final and conclusive unless, within five business days from the date of receipt of the decision, the contractor mails or otherwise delivers a written appeal to the city manager with a copy to the purchasing manager.
(4)
Failure to render timely decision. If the purchasing manager does not issue a written decision regarding any contract controversy within five business days after receiving the written request for a final decision, or within such longer period as may be agreed upon between upon between the parties, then the aggrieved party may proceed as if an adverse decision had been received.
8-103.
Remedies for illegal solicitations or awards.
(1)
Prior to bid opening or closing date for receipt of proposals. If, prior to the bid opening or the closing date for receipt of proposals, the purchasing manager determines (after consultation with the city attorney) that a solicitation is in violation of federal, state, or municipal law, then the solicitation shall be cancelled or revised to comply with applicable law.
(2)
Prior to award. If, after bid opening or the closing date for receipt of proposals but prior to the contract award, the purchasing manager determines (after consultation with the city attorney) that a solicitation or a proposed award of a contract is in violation of federal, state, or municipal law, then the solicitation or proposed award shall be cancelled.
(3)
After award. If, after an award, the purchasing manager determines (after consultation with the city attorney) that a solicitation or award of contract was in violation of applicable law, then:
a.
If the person awarded the contract has not acted fraudulently or in bad faith, the contract may be ratified and affirmed if such action is in the best interest of the city, or the contract may be terminated, and the person awarded the contract compensated of the actual costs reasonable incurred under the contract (plus a reasonable profit) prior to the termination; or
b.
If the person awarded the contract has acted fraudulently or in bad faith, the contract may be declared null and void or voidable, if such action is in the best interests of the city.
ARTICLE 9. COOPERATIVE PURCHASING
Part A: Procedures
9-101.
Cooperative purchasing authorized. Any local public procurement unit may either participate in sponsor, conduct, or administer a cooperative purchasing agreement for the procurement of any supplies, services, or construction with one or more local public procurement unite or external procurers in accordance with an agreement entered into between the participants. Such cooperative purchasing may include but is not limited to joint or multi-party contracts between public procurement units and external procurers.
9-102.
Sale, acquisition, or use of supplies. Any public procurement unit may sell to, acquire from, or use any of the supplies belonging to another public procurement unit or external procurer.
9-103.
Cooperative use of supplies or services. Any public procurement unit may enter into an argument with any other public procurement unit or external procurer for the cooperative use of supplies or services under terms agreed upon between the parties.
9-104.
Joint use of facilities. Any public procurement unit may enter into agreements for the common use or lease of warehousing facilities, capital equipment, and other facilities with another public procurement unit or an external procurer under the terms agreed upon between the parties.
9-105.
Supply of personnel and services.
(1)
Supply of personnel. Any public procurement unit is authorized at its discretion upon written request from another public procurement unit or external procurer, to provide personnel to the requesting public procurement unit or external procurer. The public procurement unit or external procurer making the request shall pay the public procurement unit providing the personnel the direct and indirect cost of furnishing the personnel, in accordance with an agreement between the parties.
(2)
Supply of service. The informational, technical, and other services of any public procurement unit may be made available to any other public procurement unit or external procurer provided that the requirements of the public procurement unit tendering the services shall have precedence over the requesting public procurement unit or external procurer. The requesting public procurement unit or external procurer shall pay for the expenses of services so provided, in accordance with an agreement between the parties.
(3)
Information services. Upon request, the purchasing manager may make available to public procurement units or external procurers the following services, among others:
a.
Standard forms,
b.
Printed manuals,
c.
Product specifications and standards,
d.
Quality assurance testing services and methods,
e.
Qualified products lists,
f.
Source information,
g.
Common use commodities listings,
h.
Supplier pre-qualification information,
i.
Supplier performance ratings,
j.
Debarred and suspended bidders' lists,
k.
Forms for invitations for bids, request for proposals, instructions to bidders or offerors, general contract provisions, and other contract forms; and,
l.
Contracts or published summaries thereof, including price and time of deliver information.
(4)
Technical services. The consolidated government, through the purchasing manager, may provide the following technical services, among other:
a.
Development of products specifications,
b.
Development of quality assurance testing methods, including receiving, inspection, and acceptance procedures,
c.
Use of product testing and inspection facilities; and,
d.
Use of personnel training programs.
ARTICLE 10. ASSISTANCE TO DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES (DBE): SMALL, WOMEN-OWNED AND MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISES
Part A: Policy Statement
10-101.
DBE utilization policy statement. The Consolidated Government of Columbus, Georgia ("the city") is committed to using disadvantaged business enterprises (DBEs) (small, women-owned and minority business enterprises) to the greatest extent practical in all solicitations and day-to-day procurement needs of the city and to taking specific affirmative actions to meet these commitments.
With the exception of METRA transit system, the purchasing manager will assign the duties of the DBE liaison officer to a purchasing division staff member, and shall develop, apply, and administer the city's current DBE policy statement and program, working with contractors, subcontractors, and city staff to see that the program is understood and carried out.
Consistent with the constitutional guarantee of equal protection under the law and with the availability of qualified DBEs, our goal is to use DBEs for a given minimum percentage of construction contracts, and to encourage DBEs to participate in all city contracts. Our objective is to better the chances for DBEs to participate in city procurements, to help them gain both experience and profit, and through this to contribute to the economic development of the minority and disadvantage business community—which in turn works for the general good of the entire community.
We believe this policy is fair. It shall be used together with the general principles of sound procurement, to achieve the maximum practical use of DBEs by the city and its contractors and subcontractors.
The city shall provide equal opportunities for all and shall not discriminate against anyone, regardless of race, color, national origin, religion, age, sex, or disability. The city's current DBE policy statement and program shall be sent to all concerned community and business organizations and to affected city staff.
The liaison officer will conduct annual seminars to inform local DBEs about business opportunities available with the city. Pre-bid conferences to discuss and answer questions about the city's DBE program will be held at the request of interested bidders or proposers.
10-102.
METRA transit system DBE program policy statement. The Consolidated Government of Columbus, Georgia (the city) has established a Disadvantaged Business Enterprises (DBE Program in accordance with the regulations of the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT), 49 CFR Part 26. The city receives federal financial assistance from the department of transportation, and as a condition of receiving the assistance, the city has signed an assurance that it will comply with 49 CFR Part 26.
It is the policy of the Consolidated Government of Columbus, Georgia DBEs, as defined in Part 26, have an equal opportunity to receive and participate in DOT-assisted contracts. It is our policy:
1.
To ensure nondiscrimination in the award and administration of DOT-assisted contracts;
2.
To create a level playing field on which DBEs can compete fairly for DOT-assisted contracts;
3.
To ensure that the DBE program is narrowly tailored in accordance with applicable law;
4.
To ensure that only firms that fully meet 49 CFR Part 26 eligibility standards are permitted to participate as DBEs;
5.
To help remove barriers to the participation of DBEs in DOT-assisted contracts;
6.
To assist in the development of firms so that they may compete successfully in the marketplace outside of the DBE Program.
The transit compliance officer has been designated as the DBE liaison officer for METRA transit, the public transportation agency for the city. In that capacity, the DBE liaison officer is responsible for implementing all aspects of the DBE program as they relate to METR[A] transit. Implementation of the DBE program is accorded the same priority as compliance with all other legal obligations incurred by the Consolidated Government of Columbus, Georgia in its financial assistance agreements with the department of transportation.
Columbus Consolidated Government shall disseminate this policy statement to the Mayor, Columbus Council, and all relevant components of our organization. We shall distribute this statement to DBE and non-DBE communities that perform work for us on DOT-assisted contracts by including the statement in procurement documents and by posting the statement on the webpage of METRA Transit System, the public transportation entity of the Consolidated Government of Columbus, Georgia.
ARTICLE 11. ETHICS IN PUBLIC CONTRACTING
Part A: Standards and Regulations
11-101.
Criminal penalties. To the extent that violations of the ethical standards of conduct set forth in this article constitute violations of the state criminal code, they shall be punishable as provided herein. Such penalties shall be in addition to the civil sanctions set forth in this article. Criminal, civil, and administrative sanctions against employees or non-employees which are in existence on the effective date of this ordinance shall not be impaired.
11-102.
Employee conflict of interest. All elected officials, appointed officials, and employees of the Consolidated Government of Columbus participating directly or indirectly in the purchasing process shall be governed by the Code of Ethics located in Appendix Two of the Charter of Columbus, Georgia and Columbus Code Sections 2-3.05 and 2-3.06.
11-103.
Gratuities and Kickbacks.
(1)
Gratuities. It shall be unethical for any person to offer, give, or agree to give any city employee or former city employee (or for any city employee or former city employee to solicit, demand, accept, or agree to accept from another person) a gratuity or an offer of employment in connection with any decision, approval, recommendation, or preparation of any part of a program requirement or a purchase request, influencing the content of any specification or procurement standard, rendering of advice, investigation, auditing, or any other advisory capacity in any proceeding or application, request for ruling, determination, claim or controversy, or other particular matter, pertaining to any program requirement of a contract of subcontract, or to any solicitation of proposal therefor.
(2)
Kickbacks. It shall be unethical for any payment, gratuity, or offer of employment to be made by or on behalf of a subcontractor to a prime contractor or higher-tier subcontractor or any person associated therewith (or for a prime contractor or higher-tier subcontractor, or any person associated therewith, to solicit, demand, accept, or agree to accept such payment, gratuity or offer of employment from a subcontractor), as an inducement for the award of a subcontract or order.
(3)
Contract clause. The prohibition against gratuities and kickbacks prescribed in this section shall be conspicuously set forth in every contract and solicitation therefor.
11-104.
Prohibition against contingent fees. It shall be unethical to retain a person or for a person to be retained to solicit or secure city contract upon an agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage, or contingent fee, or anything of monetary value, except for retention of either bona fide employees of bona fide established commercial selling agencies for the purpose of securing businesses.
11-105.
Contemporaneous employment prohibited. It shall be unethical for any city employee participating either directly or indirectly in the procurement process to become or to be, while such a city employee, the employee of a person contracting with the governmental body employing the city employee.
11-106.
Waivers. The city council may grant a waiver of the employee conflict of interest provision (section 11-102) or the contemporaneous employment provision (section 11-105) upon the purchasing manager's written determination that:
(a)
The contemporaneous employment or financial interest of the city employee has been publicly disclosed;
(b)
The city employee will be able to perform procurement functions without actual or apparent bias or favoritism; and
(c)
The award will be in the best interests of the city.
11-107.
Use of confidential information. It shall be unethical for any employee or former employee to use confidential information knowingly for actual or anticipated personal gain, or for the actual or anticipated gain of any other person.
11-108.
Sanctions.
(1)
Employees. The department director of a city employee violating the ethical standards in this article, and/or the city manager, may impose any one or more of the following sanctions on such city employee:
(a)
Oral or written warnings or reprimands,
(b)
Suspension with or without pay for specified periods of time; or
(c)
Termination of employment.
(2)
Non-employees. The city council may impose any one or more of the following sanctions on a non-employee for violations of the ethical standards in this article:
(a)
Written warnings or reprimands,
(b)
Termination of contracts; or
(c)
Debarment or suspension as provided in section 6-101 (authority to debar or suspend) above.
11-109.
Recovery of value transferred or received.
(1)
General provisions. The value of anything transferred or received in breach of the ethical standards of this ordinance by a city employee or a non-employee may be recovered from both city employee and non-employee.
(2)
Recovery of kickbacks by the city. Upon a showing that a subcontractor made a kickback to a prime contractor or a higher-tier subcontractor in connection with the award of a subcontract or order thereunder, it shall be conclusively presumed that the amount thereof was included in the price of the subcontract or order and ultimately borne by the city and will be recoverable hereunder from the recipient. In addition, that amount may also be recovered from the subcontractor making the kickback. Recovery from one offending party shall not preclude recovery from other offending parties.
(Ord. No. 20-053, § 1, 11-17-20)
Sec. 2-3.04. - Voting by board, commission or authority members.
No member of a board, commission or authority shall be allowed to vote upon any matter before the board, commission or authority in which such member has a financial interest.
(Ord. No. 87-163, 11-24-87)
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 87-163, adopted Nov. 24, 1987, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, inclusion of the substantive provisions of the ordinance as § 2-3.04 was at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 2-3.05. - Submitting bids to consolidated government, etc.—By mayor or councilmembers.
Neither the mayor nor any member of the Columbus Council shall submit any bid to the consolidated government, nor shall the mayor or any member of the Columbus Council own or have a substantial pecuniary interest in any business that submits a bid to the consolidated government.
(Ord. No. 92-60, 6-23-92)
Sec. 2-3.06. - Same—By members of boards, authorities, commissions.
No member of any board or authority or commission or other independent or subordinate entity of the consolidated government shall submit any bid to the consolidated government or have a substantial pecuniary interest in any business that submits a bid to the consolidated government if such bid pertains to the board or authority or commission on which such person holds such membership.
(Ord. No. 92-61, 6-23-92)
Sec. 2-3.07. - [Certain persons prohibited from candidacy for office.]
No person employed by a grant recipient receiving general operating funds from the consolidated government and whose salary is paid from such funds shall qualify to run for public office in Muscogee County unless first resigning from employment with such grant recipient. This section shall not apply to elected seats on the Board of the Muscogee County School District.
(Ord. No. 17-50, § 1, 8-8-17)
Sec. 2-3.1. - Meetings of city boards, committees to be public; notice to news media; records to be public.
(a)
All meetings held by boards or committees appointed by the city commission of the city shall be public meetings.
(b)
All boards or committees appointed by the city commission of the city shall give notice of special called meetings to all news media who, pursuant to this section, have requested in writing to be notified.
(c)
The notice required to be given to news media hereunder shall be given at the earliest possible moment and within a reasonable time from the time the notice is given to the members of the board or committee of the special called meeting.
(d)
All news media desiring notice of special called meetings shall, in writing, request the board or committee to notify them of all called meetings. A copy of said writing shall be sent to the city manager of the city as well as to the board or committee.
(e)
All citizens may have access to the minutes and records of boards or committees appointed by the city commission of the city at all reasonable times.
(Ord. No. 61-61, §§ 1—5, 6-26-61)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 61-61, §§ 1—5 enacted the provisions codified as § 2-3.1 above. Since said ordinance did not expressly amend this Code, the manner of codification has been in the editor's discretion.
Sec. 2-3.2. - Nonbudgeted appropriations.
(a)
$500.00 or less. The City of Columbus shall not make nonbudgeted appropriations of $500.00 or less, except by formal written resolution introduced at a meeting at least one week following the date upon which such appropriation is proposed.
(b)
In excess of $500.00. The City of Columbus shall not make nonbudgeted appropriations in excess of $500.00 except by formal written ordinance introduced at a meeting at least one week following the date upon which such appropriation is proposed.
(c)
Time frame for approval; exception. Except in cases where the city manager has notified the council on the city manager's agenda prior to the date of meeting, no nonbudgeted items may be approved for payment by the council until one week has elapsed after the presentation of such nonbudgeted item to the council.
(Ord. No. 68-195, §§ 1, 2, 8-19-68; Ord. No. 72-226, § 1, 11-7-72)
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 68-195, enacted Aug. 19, 1968, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, codification of §§ 1 and 2 of such ordinance as § 2-3.2(a) and (b) is at the discretion of the editor. Similarly, § 1 of Ord. No. 72-226, enacted Nov. 7, 1972, also did not specifically amend this Code and same was codified as § 2-3.2(c) at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 2-3.3. - Fiscal year designated.
The fiscal year for the City of Columbus shall begin on the 1st day of July of each year and end on the last day of June of the following year.
(Ord. No. 70-72, § 1, 3-23-70)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 70-72, § 1, was enacted as adding § 2-60 to this Code; however, to maintain the established format of Ch. 2, the editors redesignated said section as § 2-3.3.
Sec. 2-3.4. - Report on affairs of city government.
(a)
Required; scope. The city manager of the City of Columbus shall be, and he is hereby authorized to have prepared a presentation of the city's most important achievements and future needs, together with a full report of the activities of the city, its financial condition, its safety program, its public works, its water programs, its sanitary sewerage programs, its parks and recreation programs, its planning programs and the operation of its various departments.
(b)
Frequency. This report to the people of the City of Columbus shall be done yearly after March 9, 1970.
(Ord. No. 70-52, §§ 1, 2, 3-9-70)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 70-52 did not expressly amend this Code, hence codification of §§ 1 and 2 as § 2-3.4 was at the discretion of the editors.
Sec. 2-3.5. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 20-053, § 2, adopted November 17, 2020, repealed § 2-3.5, which pertained to purchase of budgeted items involving $2,500.00 or less and derived from Ord. No. 83-20, §§ 3, 4, March 29, 1983; Ord. No. 96-8, January 30, 1996.
Sec. 2-3.6. - Disclosure of private interest of federal, state or local elected or appointed officials who contract with the consolidated government.
Any federal, state or local elected or appointed official who shall have any private financial interest, direct or indirect, in any contract or matter pending before the council or any office, department or agency of the consolidated government shall disclose such private interest to the council. Any contract between the consolidated government or any office, department, or agency thereof and any federal, state or local elected or appointed official shall be voidable or rescindable at the option of the consolidated government at any time if said official has any interest, direct or indirect, in said contract and does not disclose such interest to the council in regular meeting.
(Ord. No. 72-46, § 1, 4-4-72)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 72-46, § 1, did not amend this Code. Inclusion herein as § 2-3.6 was at the discretion of the editors.
Sec. 2-3.7. - Approval of council required for appointed officials or employees to accept employment by, contract with, etc., unit or agency of federal, state or local government.
No appointed official or employee of the consolidated government shall accept employment by, or contract with, any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, or governmental agency, for services involving any transaction to which any unit or agency of federal, state, or local government is a party, without first obtaining in each case, the specific approval of the Council of Columbus, Georgia, by majority vote in an official council meeting.
(Ord. No. 78-1, 1-3-78)
Editor's note— Sec. 2-3.7 is derived from Ord. No. 78-1 which ordinance did not amend this Code.
Sec. 2-4. - Insurance—Employees, participation required, deductions from wages.
Whenever, and so long as, the city provides group life insurance for its officers and employees, it shall be an automatic condition of employment by the city that all persons eligible for such insurance shall be covered under such policy and the city shall automatically deduct [2] the proper premium from the compensation of each such eligible person and shall remit it directly to the insurance company.
The provisions of this section shall apply to all persons employed by the city, regardless of whether their employment commenced before or after the effective date hereof. Whenever and so long as the city provides group life insurance for its officers and employees, all persons eligible for such insurance, whether becoming officers or employees before or after the effective date hereof, shall be covered under such policy and the city shall automatically deduct the proper premium from the compensation of each eligible person and shall remit it directly to such insurance company.
(Ord. of 5-1-54, § 3; Ord. of 5-25-54, § 1)
Charter reference— As to life insurance, see § 244; as to hospitalization insurance, see § 245.
State Law reference— For power of cities to act as trustees, See Ga. Code, § 69-502 which section is included in Part II of this Volume.
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— The ordinance from which this section is derived became effective on May 1, 1954, and deductions were taken thereunder commencing June 1, 1954.

Sec. 2-5. - Same—Federal old age and survivors, employees brought within; regulations.
(a)
Policy and purpose. It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city, effective January 1, 1956, to extend, under the agreement entered into by the State of Georgia and the Federal Security Administrator, to the employees and officials of the city and its instrumentalities, not excluded by law or by this section, the benefits of the system of old age and survivor's insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act and amendments thereto, including Public Law 734 of the 81st Congress, and as provided for in Act No. 734, Georgia Laws 1953, approved December 21, 1953 and amendments thereto. In pursuance of this policy, and for such purpose, the city shall take such action as may be required by applicable State or Federal laws or regulations.
(b)
Plan and agreement. The mayor and the city clerk are hereby authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia and officials on behalf of the city as provided for in subsection (a) hereof.
(c)
Withholdings authorized. Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials of the city for the purpose provided for in subsection (a) hereof are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state agency.
(d)
Appropriations. There is hereby appropriated from the pension and retirement fund of the city such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or regulations for employer's contributions, administrative expenses, and a guaranty fund to assure that the state will not incur any debt or loss as a result of the agreement referred to in subsection (b) of this section. Such funds shall be paid over to the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia in accordance with regulations established by said agency.
(e)
Records. The city shall keep such records and make such reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(f)
Exclusions. There is hereby excluded from this section any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position, or any employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(g)
Coverage. The provisions and benefits of this ordinance [section 2-5 of this code] shall apply to all employees and officials of the city and its instrumentalities that are now or may hereafter be entitled to the benefits of the system of Old Age and Survivors' Insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act, and amendments thereto, and specifically including within its provisions the members of the fire department and the police department of the city.
(Ord. No. 56-6, §§ 1—6; Ord. No. 59-22)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 59-22, enacted April 20, 1959, amended Ord. No. 56-6, enacted March 6, 1956, to add a § 8 thereto which is hereinabove set out as § 2-5(g).
Cross reference— For provisions relating to the fire and police departments see § 11-8 et seq. and ch. 17 respectively.
Sec. 2-5.1. - Modification of original plan and agreement with Employees' Retirement System of Georgia.
(a)
Ralph A. Sayers, city manager of the City of Columbus, be, and he is hereby authorized and directed to execute an agreement amending the original Plan and Agreement with the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia, in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit "A", providing for the release of social security escrow deposits.
(b)
The City of Columbus, hereinafter referred to as "the city", agrees to abide by the rules and regulations of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia, hereinafter called the state agency, in regard to collections from city employees and in making reports and payments to the state agency.
(c)
The city hereby pledges an amount which it would receive in state grant funds as security for assurance that it will make collections from its employees, submit required reports, and remit payments to the state agency as agreed to in its plan of coverage of employees for social security benefits. The city further agrees that if the amount of state grant funds which it is entitled to receive in a calendar year is less than its annual payment to the state agency, as may be determined by the state agency, then the city shall deposit in escrow, when so notified in writing by the state agency and in accordance with its rules and regulations, an amount which, when added to the city's state grant funds, would total an amount sufficient to meet its obligations of reporting and remitting collections to the state agency.
(Ord. No. 67-107, §§ 1—3, 6-12-67)
Editor's note— Section 2-5.1 is derived from Ord. No. 67-107, §§ 1—3, adopted June 12, 1967. This ordinance, nonamendatory of this Code, was codified in the discretion of the editors.
Secs. 2-6—2-9. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, adopted May 23, 1978, repealed §§ 2-6—2-9 requiring bond of city officers and specifying certain duties of the city marshal. Said sections were derived from Code 1914, §§ 82, 96—98.
Sec. 2-10. - Recorder's court—Powers.
It shall be the duty of the recorder of the city to hold a court to be called the "recorder's court", at such time and place within the city as he may order and appoint, for trial of all offenders against the laws and ordinances of the city; and he is hereby fully authorized to inflict such fines and penalties upon offenders as he may deem proper and just, not exceeding the limits allowed by law, or prescribed by ordinance, and to enforce the judgment of the court by the attachment of the person by execution; and to punish witnesses for nonattendance or other contempts as a court of record may do.
The recorder is hereby authorized to allow any minor under 18 years of age who has been adjudged guilty of violating an ordinance of the City of Columbus, to serve such sentence on probation and in the custody of his or her parent, upon the signing of a bond by such parent to insure good behavior of such child during the period of probation, and the recorder is hereby authorized to decree such bond forfeit, when in his judgment such minor or such parent have not abided by the conditions required by the court for the acceptance of such bond.
The recorder is hereby authorized to impose such alternative sentences in addition to fine and/or imprisonment as in his judgment may seem meet and proper, including but not limited to the following:
(1)
Attendance of the traffic information program (TIP school) in cases involving driving under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs.
(2)
That the offender shall receive such treatment and/or rehabilitation in cases involving driving under the influence of intoxicating liquors or drugs.
(3)
That the offender receive such physical or psychological examination necessary to determine if such offender is a problem drinker or drug user.
(Code 1914, § 631; Ord. No. 66-35, § 1, 3-14-66; Ord. No. 71-258, § 1, 9-28-71; Ord. No. 72-35, §§ 1—3, 3-21-72)
Sec. 2-10.1. - Same—Presence of parent of minor charged with offense required.
It shall be unlawful for a parent of any minor child who is charged with any offense requiring him or her to appear before recorder's court to fail to accompany such child before the recorder on the date said offense is heard. This provision shall be complied with if one of the parents of such minor child attend.
The court is authorized to excuse the parent from attending or to compel by subpoena the attendance of such parent.
(Ord. No. 66-34, § 1, 3-14-66; Ord. No. 80-66, § 1, 6-3-80)
Sec. 2-11. - Same—Clerk; appointment, term, duties, salary.
(a)
Creation of office. Pursuant to Columbus Charter section 5-605, there is hereby created the office of clerk of the recorder's court of Columbus, Georgia. There shall be one or more deputy clerks serving in the recorder's court of Columbus, Georgia.
(b)
Appointment. The clerk shall be appointed by the Columbus Council and may be removed for cause by the Columbus Council, subject to vested rights of any existing public safety personnel serving as clerk or deputy clerk. The senior recorder may recommend appointment or removal of the clerk, but such recommendation shall not be binding.
(c)
Duties. The clerk shall prepare the court dockets, maintain all court records and shall serve as the chief administrative officer of the recorder's court. The clerk shall be the custodian of the official records of such court; attend all sessions of the court; certify to and affix the seal of the court to transcripts and official records of the court; be under the daily administrative supervision and direction of the senior recorder and other recorder's court judges in the absence of the senior recorder; and perform such acts in connection with his or her duties as may be required by law.
(d)
Salary. The salary of the clerk or deputy clerks of the recorder's court shall be fixed by ordinance of the Columbus Council.
(e)
Deputy clerks. Deputy clerks shall be appointed by the clerk of recorder's court and shall perform all duties of the court as assigned by the clerk or the senior recorder. Such deputy clerks shall be under the daily administrative supervision of the senior recorder and other recorder's court judges in their respective court sessions. Pending the illness or absence of the clerk or deputy clerks of the recorder's court, the senior recorder may appoint a clerk pro tempore or deputy clerks pro tem to perform the duties of the clerk or deputy clerk.
(Code 1914, §§ 632, 633; Ord. of 5-3-49, §§ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5; Ord. No. 03-16, § 1, 3-18-03; Ord. No. 11-43, § 1, 8-9-11)
Sec. 2-12. - Same—Binding over defendant, bond.
If, after an investigation of any case, it shall appear that the court has no jurisdiction to determine it, the recorder shall require the defendant to enter into bond, conditioned to appear before the next term of the court having jurisdiction, to answer for such offense, which bond shall be turned over to the proper officer of the court. In default of such bonds the recorder shall have power to commit the defendant to jail to answer the charge at the next term of the court having jurisdiction thereof.
(Code 1914, § 634)
Note— See Hargett vs. City of Columbus, 36, Ga. App. 628, 137 SE 911, for holding that statutory requirements were not meant by the filing in the Court of Appeals of the Recorder's certificate that the plaintiff in error had given bond in the certiorari from the Recorder's Court, where the plaintiff in error did not allege the giving of such bond in his petition.
Sec. 2-13. - Same—Costs, payment to city.
Costs arising in the recorder's court shall be paid into the city treasury, and the clerk and marshal of the city shall receive no costs, fee or prerequisites whatever for cases tried or reported to the recorder's court.
(Code 1914, § 635)
Sec. 2-14. - Same—Contempt; punishment.
The recorder's court shall have power to issue attachments and inflict summary punishment for contempt of court. Such power shall not extend to any case except the misbehavior of any person in the presence of the court, or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice, the misbehavior of any of the officers of the court in their official transactions and the disobedience or resistance by any officer of the court, party, witness or other person or persons to any lawful writ, process, order, rule or command of the court.
The recorder's court shall have power to punish any person or persons in contempt as aforesaid as provided in section 1-8 of this Code.
(Code 1914, § 636)
Note— See Salter vs. City of Columbus, 125 Ga. 96, 54 SE 74, for holding that no injunction will lie against the institution of proceedings for the violation of a municipal ordinance.
Sec. 2-15. - Same—Appearance bond, forfeiture.
In all cases where a person charged with the violation of this Code or an ordinance of the city or a law of the State of Georgia shall give bond for his appearance before the recorder's court, or where a person summoned to appear before said court as a witness shall give bond for his appearance, and it shall become necessary, to forfeit such bonds for the failure of such person to appear, the mode of procedure shall be as hereinafter set forth:
(1)
Calling case, entry. The recorder shall call all cases on his docket. If, upon such call, any person of the class designated in the preceding paragraph hereof shall fail to appear at the time specified in the summons, the appearance bond executed by such person shall at once be forfeited, and the recorder shall make an entry of forfeiture on the page of his docket where such case is entered. The form of the entry of forfeiture shall state that the case was called at the time specified in the summons, that the party summoned failed to appear when the case was called, that the bond is forfeited, and such entry shall be dated and signed by the recorder.
(2)
Forfeiture revoked by surrender of
principal. [3]
Bail may surrender their principal to the chief of police, or any subordinate officer or member of the police department designated by the chief, within seven days after the date of forfeiture and such surrender shall relieve the sureties of the penalty of the bond upon the payment of cost. It shall be discretionary with the recorder whether the time be extended. In no event shall an extension be granted for more than 30 days. In all cases, any motion for revocation of a forfeiture upon surrender shall be made in writing during the seven day period, or such time as is extended pursuant hereto.
(3)
Collection. At the expiration of the period of time set forth in subsection two, the procedure for collection of the amount of the bond shall be as follows:
(a)
If the bond is one in which cash has been deposited with the police department of the city without a personal security, the cash so deposited shall be paid immediately into the treasury of the city.
(b)
If the bond is one which has been signed by the defendant principal with surety or sureties (personal or corporate), the city clerk shall immediately issue execution against the principal and surety or sureties on such bond. The execution shall be directed to the city marshal who shall proceed immediately to collect the amount of the execution, with costs, in the manner in which executions for ad valorem taxes due the city are collected.
(c)
If the bond is one in which the officer of the police department authorized to allow bail and fix the bond, determines, in his discretion, that it is safe to permit the accused to sign a bond without providing further security, the city clerk shall immediately issue execution against the party signing such bond, which execution shall be directed and enforced as provided in subsection (b) hereof.
(4)
Officer authorized to fix bail. The officers of the police department of the city authorized to approve the bond of one arrested and brought before such department shall be the chief of police, a captain of the police department or a sergeant of the department. This authority shall exist in the order named and shall devolve upon whichever one of such officers is the highest ranking officer on duty at police headquarters at the time the party arrested is admitted to bail.
(5)
Disqualification of surety. Where any person (including any corporation) hereafter executes as security a bond calling for the appearance of a person before the recorder's court, either as defendant or as a witness, and fails to pay the amount of the bond when forfeited, such person shall not be accepted as security on other bonds providing for appearance in the court until he has paid the entire amount outstanding against him because of his failure to pay the amount of a forfeited bond. No person who has failed to pay the appropriate city license tax shall be accepted as security on a bond providing for appearance of a person before the recorder's court, either as defendant or as a witness, under circumstances which would render such person liable for a city license tax because of such suretyship.
(6)
Refund of cash. Where the bond is one in which cash has been deposited with the police department of the city, the cash shall be refunded to the person so depositing it when the principal in the bond has complied with its terms or whenever a forfeiture of a bond has been revoked in accordance with the terms of this section.
(7)
Right to suit. Nothing in this section relating to the forfeiture of bonds is to take from the city its right to enforce such bonds by suit thereon.
(Ord. of 7-17-51, §§ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8; Ord. No. 58-76; Ord. No. 59-9, §§ 1—3; Ord. No. 61-107, § 1, 12-27-61)
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 61-107, § 1, enacted December 27, 1961, amended § 2-15 by adding the authority for recorder to extend the time for revocation of forfeiture in subsection (2) above.

Sec. 2-15.1. - Same—Sentence diversion program for substance abuse offenses.
(a)
Whenever the recorder's court receives a plea of guilty or adjudicates guilt for any violation of a city ordinance or state statute incorporated for sentencing purposes in the recorder's court relating to the possession of a narcotic drug, marijuana, or stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic drug, with the exception of such offenses that involve driving under the influence, judgment may be entered in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 16-13-2; and further implementation of such judgment shall be in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 16-13-2.
(b)
Whenever disposition of a substance abuse case is made under the provisions of subsection (a) the defendant shall have 72 hours to report to a designated assessment center for evaluation to determine their substance abuse lifestyle. Contingent upon the results of the initial assessment, the defendant shall be referred to a substance abuse educational program that addresses the individual needs of the defendant. This program shall consist of no less than three months and no more than six months of substance abuse education, referral for substance abuse treatment, if necessary, and monitoring, to include random substance abuse testing. All costs, to include court costs, assessment fees and substance abuse testing fees, shall be paid by the defendant, unless the defendant is declared by the court to be an indigent, in which case alternative arrangements may be provided by the court. Upon successfully completing the program, the court shall discharge the person and dismiss the proceedings against him.
(Ord. No. 90-79, §§ 1, 2, 8-28-90)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 90-79, adopted Aug. 28, 1990, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, inclusion of §§ 1 and 2 of § 2-15.1 was at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 2-15.2. - Same—Charges for dismissing cases, appealing judgements.
The following charges are established:
(1)
Reserved.
(2)
A charge of $25.00 for appealing a recorder's court judgement.
(Ord. No. 92-45, 6-9-92; Ord. No. 97-57, 6-10-97; Ord. No. 16-43, § 1, 11-8-16)
Sec. 2-15.3. - Same—Speed detection devices and speeding in school zones.
The Recorder's Court of Columbus, Georgia shall be authorized to hear evidence and enforce civil penalties for violations of O.C.G.A. Sections 40-14-17 and 40-14-18, related to use of certain speed detection devices and speeding in school zones.
(Ord. No. 22-044, § 1, 8-30-22)
Sec. 2-16. - Jurors excused from parking regulations.
(a)
Jurors on duty in the courts of Columbus are hereby excused from parking restrictions in legal parking areas on public streets according to the following regulations:
(1)
A juror who leaves his summons for service visible to an inspecting officer will not be given a violation ticket by such officer on the date shown on such summons.
(2)
Should a parking summons be left on such juror's automobile the same may be validated by the jury manager whose validation stamp shall show that the juror was on duty at the time the parking summons was issued.
(b)
The jury manager is authorized to return such summons to the police department or have the same returned in satisfaction of the obligation of the juror to appear.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 80-15, adopted Feb. 19, 1980, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, codification of §§ 1 and 2 of said ordinance as § 2-16 is at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 2-17. - Environmental court division.
The environmental court division of recorder's court is hereby created. An environmental court docket shall be heard at both a morning and afternoon session on the first Wednesday of each month and shall be heard at both a morning and afternoon session on the third Wednesday of each month in the recorder's court. The cases heard shall include, but shall not be limited to, the attached list of environmental ordinances.
(Ord. No. 02-75, § 1, 7-23-02; Ord. No. 02-117, § 1, 12-10-02; Ord. No. 03-59, § 1, 7-22-03)
Sec. 2-18. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Sections 2-16—2-18, relative to bonds or insurance on city or housing authority contracts, were repealed by Ord. No. 78-65, § 1, enacted May 23, 1978. Said sections were derived from Ord. of July 17, 1939, §§ 1, 2; Ord. of Aug. 14, 1939; and Ord. of Nov. 19, 1954, §§ 1, 2. Sections 2-16 and 2-17 have since been reused.
Sec. 2-18.1. - City-owned vehicles; use by employees when off duty prohibited; exception.
(a)
Employees of the city are hereby prohibited from using vehicles of the city when they are not on duty, and employees shall not carry vehicles of the city home with them at night when they are not on duty.
(b)
Employees who are on 24-hour call are excepted from the provisions of this section, provided special permission is obtained yearly from the city commission, authorizing the use of city vehicles by such employees.
(Ord. No. 59-47, §§ 1, 2)
Editor's note— Section 2-18.1, derived from Ord. No. 59-47, enacted August 31, 1959, and effective September 30, 1959, did not amend this Code, hence it has been codified as said section at the discretion of the editors.
Sec. 2-18.2. - Automobile allowances for employees.
Whenever any employee who is receiving a car allowance retires or otherwise vacates his position, the council, and, particularly, the budget review committee, will immediately make an evaluation of whether or not any provisions for an automobile allowance should be continued; and, in the absence of any specific action by the Columbus Council continuing the provision for automobile allowances, such automobile allowance shall be automatically discontinued for the position vacated.
(Ord. No. 89-35, 4-4-89)
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 89-35, adopted April 4, 1989, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, its inclusion as § 2-18.2 was at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 2-18.3. - Information relative to subcontractors required in bids to city.
(a)
The bid for any contract with the City of Columbus or subordinate branch thereof, by any general contractor who has in turn received bids from any subcontractor involving ten percent of his total bid for a portion of such work, shall contain information relating thereto, setting forth the subcontractor's name and address, and the portion of such contract as is to be let to said subcontractor.
(b)
Failure to so list said subcontractor's bid will invalidate the bid of the general contractor.
(Ord. No. 63-79, §§ 1, 2, 9-30-63)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 63-79 was not enacted as a part of this Code, but is included herein as § 2-18.3 at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 2-18.4. - Engineering department—To screen all engineering work before employment of outside firms.
(a)
The engineering department of Columbus, Georgia, will handle all engineering for all departments of the city that it is capable of doing.
(b)
Before any outside engineering firm is employed by any department, board or authority of the city for any public work in the city, the engineering department of the city will make a finding as to its ability to handle such engineering work, shall report its finding to the Council of Columbus, Georgia, with its recommendations as to the need of outside engineering firms being employed, such report indicating such portion of such project as the engineering department of Columbus is able to handle itself.
(Ord. No. 72-16, §§ 1, 2, 2-15-72)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 72-16, §§ 1 and 2, did not amend this Code, hence inclusion herein as § 2-18.4 was at the discretion of the editors.
Sec. 2-18.4.1. - Same—Fee system for services.
(a)
A fee system is hereby established for the engineering department for services provided to persons and organizations.
(b)
The engineering department shall provide services which include, but are not limited to, review of plans and other submitted data for approval of applications for permits for site development, soil erosion control, flood plain management, work on public rights-of-way, engineering investigations and processing requests for easement encroachments/abandonments, and inspections of construction and compliance with standards, ordinances and regulations. Due to variability of fuel, construction and material costs and that the sign material bids have changed every 90 days, the department of engineering will be reviewing the bid every four months and based on the most current prices, adjust the cost of signs if needed with the approval of the city manager.
(c)
A nonrefundable fee payment shall be submitted with plans and application with fees based on the following fee schedule:
(1)
Commercial/subdivision development: .....
Urban: Up to 10 acres + $40.00 per additional acre (over 10 acres) .....$400.00
Rural: Per lot .....20.00
(2)
Minor land-disturbing activities .....50.00
(3)
Work on right-of-way .....50.00
(4)
Easement encroachment/abandonment investigations .....50.00
(5)
Advertisements for street closings .....25.00
(6)
Street name signs in new subdivisions and replacement of existing signs due to accidents, vandalism, etc. (each) .....250.00
(7)
Traffic signs in new subdivisions and replacement of existing signs due to accidents, vandalism, etc. (each) .....125.00
(8)
Request for traffic data .....100.00
(9)
Geographical information systems: .....
Faxing, per page .....2.00
Parcel map (8½" × 11"), overlays included .....7.00
Parcel map (11" × 17"), overlays included .....7.00
Tax map 42" × 34" (E size), overlays included
Black and white .....15.00
Color .....35.00
GIS data: On CD only, for tax parcel data, personal geodatabase format only .....210.00
Each additional layer, i.e. zoning, land use, topography, streets, etc. .....200.00
2004 aerial photography, per tile, approx. 200 tiles, on CD or DVD only .....10.00
Full map set adobe PDF, includes tax maps with zoning updated quarterly .....210.00
Each additional layer overlay, aerial and topography .....200.00
Map/data customization, per hour, 2 hour minimum .....65.00
Shipping and handling, included in map fee, regular mail only
GIS website subscription, basic access .....Free
Premium level access, per month .....25.00
Per year .....250.00
Professional level access, per month .....40.00
Per year .....400.00
(Ord. No. 91-49, §§ 1—3, 6-18-91; Ord. No. 97-138, §§ 1—3, 12-9-97; Ord. No. 01-30, §§ I—III, 5-9-01; Ord. No. 06-101, §§ I—III, 11-7-06)
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 91-49, adopted June 18, 1991 did not specifically amend this Code; hence, inclusion of §§ 1—3 as § 2-18.4.1 was at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 2-18.5. - Housing authority to exercise urban redevelopment powers.
(a)
As herein used, "urban redevelopment project powers" shall be the urban redevelopment project powers particularized and defined in the Georgia Urban Redevelopment Law (Chapter 69-11 of Georgia Code Annotated); "municipality" shall mean the consolidated government of Columbus, Georgia; and "the urban renewal plans" shall mean those certain urban renewal plans for NDP Urban Renewal Area No. 1 (southwest Columbus) and NDP Urban Renewal Area No. 2 (Weracoba Creek) as heretofore approved by the Council of Columbus, Georgia by Resolution No. 493-71 and as henceforth amended by proper authority.
(b)
It is hereby deemed and determined to be in the public interest that the urban redevelopment project powers of the municipality be exercised by the housing authority of Columbus, Georgia, for all purposes of the urban renewal plans, to the fullest extent necessary for said housing authority to execute, effectuate, comply with and carry out said urban renewal plans in every respect; and the Council of Columbus, Georgia, expressly elects to have such urban redevelopment project powers exercised accordingly by the housing authority of Columbus, Georgia, subject only to the limitations specified in Section 69-1115(b) of Georgia Code Annotated.
(c)
Any and all acts and things heretofore done or undertaken by said housing authority in the exercise of any such urban redevelopment project powers with respect to said urban renewal plans are hereby expressly ratified and confirmed.
(Ord. No. 72-36, §§ 1—3, 3-21-72)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 72-36, §§ 1—3, being nonamendatory of this Code, has been included herein as § 2-18.5 at the discretion of the editors.
Sec. 2-18.6. - Approval required for receipt of salaries allocated under grants.
Salaries of city employees, including the airport commission employees, and any other agency which receives monies from the city, shall not be supplemented by the value of the service they render to a grant program thereby constituting a raise in pay for the same service rendered the city, unless approved by majority vote of the council. This shall cover compensation to employees, from the effective date of this section, including such employees who are now receiving such additional compensation, but shall not require the repayment of any sums heretofore paid.
(Ord. No. 72-178, § 1, 9-12-72; Ord. No. 78-65, § 5, 5-23-78)
Sec. 2-18.7. - Examination, evaluation and approval of compensation of employees administrating programs financed by state or federal government.
Each and every change in the pay rate of employees of the consolidated government, including employees serving elected officials, special projects, and grant-in-aid programs for the benefit of the general government which may be financed in whole or in part by the State of Georgia or the United States of America, shall be examined, evaluated, and approved by the city manager of Columbus, Georgia. This requirement shall be in addition to, rather than in lieu of, existing requirements for review and approval by the director of administration, personnel officer, department heads and other officials.
(Ord. No. 72-179, § 1, 9-12-72)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 72-179, § 1, being nonamendatory of this Code, has been included herein as § 2-18.7 at the discretion of the editors.
Sec. 2-18.8. - Review and approval of grant applications.
(a)
All organizational units of the consolidated government of Columbus, all independent agencies whose existence is dependent upon a finding of need and necessity by the Council of Columbus, Georgia, all projects and programs of such agencies which are dependent upon the finding of need and necessity by the Council of Columbus, Georgia, and all persons, firms, corporations or agencies receiving appropriations from Columbus, Georgia, shall file with the office of the mayor and the Council of Columbus, Georgia, all grant applications for review comment, and approval before the final application is made.
(b)
All other persons, firms, corporations or agencies sponsoring federal or state assisted programs for the citizens of this government are requested to file with the office of the mayor and the Council of Columbus, Georgia, such grant applications for review, and comment, before the final application is made.
(Ord. No. 72-180, §§ 1, 2, 9-12-72)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 72-180, §§ 1 and 2, did not expressly amend this Code, hence inclusion herein as § 2-18.8 was at the discretion of the editors.
Sec. 2-18.9. - Disposition of general revenue sharing funds.
All funds allocated to Columbus, Georgia under "State and Local Fiscal Assistance Act of 1972," and received from the department of the treasury shall be deposited into separate accounts which shall be entitled "General Revenue Sharing Trust Fund Account;" and such funds shall be withdrawn, expended and appropriated pursuant only to a resolution or resolutions of the Council of Columbus, Georgia. Such resolutions of the council may cover a single item, group of items, or items within a written plan included in such resolution.
(Ord. No. 72-245, § 1, 12-19-72)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 72-254 did not expressly amend this Code, hence inclusion of § 1 herein as § 2-18.9 was at the discretion of the editors.
Sec. 2-18.10. - Authorized expenditures for councilors in the performance of official business.
(a)
Councilors are hereby authorized the same reimbursement for expenses incurred for travel as well as other expenditures while in the performance of their duties as councilors and as appointees for boards, commissions and committees as the same are reimbursable by other officers and employees when on city business.
(b)
Councilors are hereby authorized to notify the Clerk of Council of any anticipated travel covered hereunder so that the Clerk of Council may make a record thereof in advance of such authorized travel.
(Ord. No. 73-164, §§ 1, 2, 11-27-73)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 73-164, §§ 1 and 2, being nonamendatory of this Code, has been included herein as § 2-18.10 at the discretion of the editors.
Sec. 2-18.11. - United States Bicentennial Trust Fund established; board of trustees.
(a)
There is hereby created a board of trustees of the United States Bicentennial Trust Fund to consist of the curator of the Infantry Museum of Fort Benning, Georgia, and six other members, one of whom shall be nominated by the president of Columbus College, one of whom shall be nominated by the superintendent of the Muscogee County School District, one of whom shall be nominated by the chairman of the Board of the Historic Columbus Foundation, one of whom shall be nominated by the Board of the Historic District Preservation Society, one of whom shall be appointed by the mayor of Columbus, Georgia, and one member to be appointed by the Council of Columbus, Georgia. Each of the named nominating officials may submit as many nominations as they deem feasible from which nomination the Council of Columbus, Georgia shall select one or ask such nominating officials for additional nominations. Should such nominating officials fail to nominate within 30 days of a vacancy, the Council of Columbus, Georgia may fill such vacancy by its own nomination and election.
(b)
The members of said board of trustees shall serve graduated terms of from one to seven years and until the successors are named and appointed, which terms shall be drawn by lot at the first meeting to be called by the mayor of Columbus, Georgia. Subsequent terms shall be seven years or until their successors are named and appointed with no member eligible to succeed himself. The original terms less than seven years in duration shall be considered terms of office with no member eligible to succeed himself.
(c)
The said board of trustees shall be and hereby is charged to create, develop, construct and preserve a commemorative historic promenade of suitable design and character with displays and exhibits upon appropriate public or publicly controlled sites to include proper and fitting markers, tablets, structures, visual and audible educational units, landscaping and such other items and things as they deem consistent with the purpose of this section, and such other projects of like character as to said board may seem meet and proper.
(d)
The said board of trustees may receive and disburse public and private funds and other contributions for the aforesaid purposes and such funds shall constitute the U.S. Bicentennial Trust Fund of Columbus, Georgia. The said trust fund may be expended for capital improvement only including construction, beautification and installations as stipulated herein. An annual audit report of the funds shall be filed with the clerk of Council of Columbus, Georgia.
(e)
Upon the recommendation of said board, the Council of Columbus, Georgia, may authorize the use, acquisition, or lease of lands or buildings or both, within or beyond the corporate limits of Columbus, Georgia, and such lands or buildings may be dedicated, set apart, acquired or leased for such purposes as outlined herein as a part of the parks, playground and recreational facilities authorized by section 69-602 of the Code of Georgia.
(f)
The officials and officers of the consolidated government of Columbus, Georgia, are authorized and directed to cooperate and assist the board of trustees. These activities are hereby ordained to be a governmental function under the authorization of Section 69-602 of the Code of Georgia, as aforesaid.
(Ord. No. 74-91, §§ 1—6, 5-14-74; Ord. No. 77-117, § 1, 8-30-88)
Sec. 2-18.12. - Deposit of certificates of insurance in lieu of policies of insurance or certified copies of policies; notification of policy coverage changes or policy cancellation.
(a)
In all cases where ordinances of Columbus, Georgia, require the deposit of policies of insurance or certified copies of policies of insurance with the Clerk of Council, said companies shall instead be permitted to deposit certificates of insurance which shall show that the company has the coverage required by the applicable ordinance.
(b)
Provided, that the certificate of insurance shall include, or there shall be affixed thereto, a statement by the insurer that Columbus, Georgia, will be notified within 30 days of any change in the coverage of the policy or of the cancellation of the policy.
(Ord. No. 78-107, §§ 1, 2, 9-19-78)
Editor's note— Section 2-18.12 is derived from Ord. No. 78-107, §§ 1, 2, which ordinance was nonamendatory of this Code.
Sec. 2-18.13. - Common redevelopment agency for Columbus.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-44-4, the Council of Columbus, Georgia is hereby designated as the common redevelopment agency for Columbus, Georgia and may exercise all redevelopment powers authorized by O.C.G.A. Title 36, Chapter 44. Concurrently, the Development Authority of Columbus, Georgia is hereby delegated authority to perform various functions and duties required by the Redevelopment Powers Law on behalf of the Council of Columbus, Georgia except for those functions which are prohibited from delegation by O.C.G.A. § 36-44-6(b). The specific functions and duties to be delegated will be set forth in a Memorandum of Understanding to be entered into between Columbus, Georgia and the Development Authority of Columbus.
(Ord. No. 15-51, § 1, 10-27-15)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 15-51, § 1, adopted Oct. 27, 2015, adopted provisions intended for use as § 2-66; however, because § 2-66 already exists in the Code, and at the city's instruction, said provisions have been included herein as § 2-18.13.
