ARTICLE I. - OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE

Sec. 16B-1-1. - Authority.
Section 8-303 of the Charter provides that the department of administration shall prepare personnel regulations for the consideration of the city manager. When approved, the city manager shall submit the regulations to council for adoption in the form of an ordinance. The regulations may be amended in the same manner.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 1, § 1, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-1-2. - Purposes.
The personnel regulations are adopted to provide for the recruitment and development of the best available employee for each position in the merit system of the consolidated government, Columbus, Georgia, at all times. They provide for establishing orderly procedures for personnel administration in such a way to ensure:
(a)
That employment in the merit system of the government shall be made attractive as a career.
(b)
That all appointments and promotions to positions in the merit system shall be on the sole basis of merit and fitness, which, as far as is practicable, shall be ascertained by means of competitive examinations, and that this government shall be an equal employment opportunity employer, and that applicants and employees shall not be discriminated against because of race, color, creed, sex, political affiliations, age, physical disability, national origin, or any other nonmerit factor. Exceptions may be made where a specific age, sex or physical requirement constitutes a bona fide occupational qualification necessary to proper and efficient administration.
(c)
That position classification and pay plans shall be adopted which shall conform with the principle of equal pay for equal work.
(d)
That a performance rating system shall be provided where economy and effectiveness in personal services may be promoted in the mutual benefit of the employees, government officials, taxpayers and all the people of the city.
(e)
That each employee in the merit system shall be encouraged to render his best service to the government.
(f)
To facilitate maximum utilization of manpower and public service, cooperation will be extended in the following areas where agreements can be ascertained:
(1)
Interjurisdictional recruiting, examining, certifying, training and other personnel actions.
(2)
Adding to registers of eligible applicants with eligibility on comparable examinations in other jurisdictions.
(3)
Appointing employees on the basis of their permanent merit status in another jurisdiction, with maximum protection of their retirement and other benefits.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 1, § 2, 8-17-71; Ord. No. 75-20, §§ 1, 2, 3-18-75)
Sec. 16B-1-3. - Positions covered—Generally.
These regulations shall apply to all positions specified in the Charter, section 8-302, Merit System.
All positions in the service of the government shall be in the merit system except the following:
(a)
Officers elected by the people and persons appointed to fill vacancies in elective offices;
(b)
The members of boards, commissions and authorities;
(c)
The city manager, city attorney, director of public safety, recorders and recorders pro tem, clerk of council, and heads and directors of departments;
(d)
Persons temporarily employed in a professional or scientific capacity or to conduct a special inquiry investigation, examination or installation;
(e)
Temporary or part-time employees; and
(f)
Such other positions as may be excepted by ordinance of the council.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 1, § 3, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-1-3.1. - Same—Employees of elected county officers, commissions, boards, etc..
Elected county officers and commissions, boards, or other bodies in the consolidated government may, consistent with the terms of O.C.G.A. § 36-1-21 (1986 Ga. L. 764), place their employees within the merit system and under the jurisdiction of the personnel review board by making written application to the clerk of council, and such coverage of such employees shall be effective from the date of the filing of the application without any further action by the Columbus Council.
(Ord. No. 86-73, 7-8-86)
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 86-73, adopted July 8, 1986, did not specifically amend the Code; hence, inclusion of the substantive provisions of the ordinance as § 16B-1-3.1 was at the editor's discretion.
Sec. 16B-1-3.2. - Hiring or rehiring of felons; exceptions; executive committee review.
In all general government departments of the consolidated government, it shall be the policy that otherwise qualified individuals who have been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo contendere to felony offenses in any court of Georgia or other state or in any United States District Court, including parole or other forms of court ordered supervision for felony crimes will not be excluded from consideration for hiring where doing so does not unduly put the government, its employees or the citizens at risk. There shall be an executive committee, composed of the mayor, the mayor pro-tem, the city manager, the director of human resources, and a representative of the law enforcement to be appointed by the mayor which is charged with the responsibility of reviewing the cases where an applicant who has a criminal record as described above has been recommended by a hiring department and the department of human resources for a specific position. The executive committee shall review and approve such applicants by a majority vote of the total membership of five and only after giving due consideration to the needs of the government and the public interest involved as well as the likelihood that such an exception will be conducive to the rehabilitation efforts of the prospective employee involved. In evaluating a candidate, the executive committee shall take into consideration the severity of the crime and any recommendations that may be offered by prison or parole or probation officers, opinions of past job performance with the consolidated government or other employers, and the nature or sensitivity of the position to be filled with emphasis on the question of whether or not the previous crime is predictive of future job performance. Public safety departments are exempt from the application of this code section. The human resources department shall promulgate and this council may from time to approve administrative policies and procedures to facilitate the implementation of this code section.
(Ord. No. 88-11, 2-9-88; Ord. No. 12-13, § 1, 3-13-12; Ord. No. 15-21, § 1,5-26-15)
Sec. 16B-1-4. - Interpretation.
The regulations are intended to cover most personnel problems and actions likely to be encountered. Those not specifically covered shall be interpreted by the personnel officer subject to the concurrence of the director of administration in keeping with the intent of the Charter and the objectives of those regulations.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 1, § 4, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-1-5. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 99-21, § 1, adopted April 13, 1999, repealed former § 16B-1-5, which pertained to general duties of the personnel review board; composition of the board, term of members; appeals and grievances and derived from Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 1, § 5, adopted Aug. 17, 1971; Ord. No. 71-287, § 1, adopted Nov. 2, 1971; Ord. No. 75-20, § 3, adopted March 18, 1975; Ord. No. 80-85, § 1, adopted July 15, 1980; and Ord. No. 89-39, adopted April 11, 1989. Section 2 of Ord. No. 99-21 adopted Human Resources Policies Numbered 220-501 Work Rules, 220-502 Disciplinary Action, 220-503 Involuntary Termination of Employment, 220-504 Fair Treatment Policy, and 220-505 Personnel Review Board, dated April 1, 1999; official copies of said policies shall be maintained in the office of the city manager.
Sec. 16B-1-6. - Veterans' preference.
Procedures concerning honorably discharged veterans of any war will conform with Article III, Section VII, Paragraph XXIV, of the Constitution of the State of Georgia providing that equal preference be awarded such veterans as exists under Federal Civil Service Statutes.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 1, § 6, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-1-7. - Enforcement and administration.
The responsibility and authority for the enforcement and administration of the rules and regulations set forth herein are vested in the department of administration.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 1, § 7, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-1-8. - Extension of the merit system.
Upon the initial extension of the merit system to a program that has been established outside of the merit system, an incumbent may obtain permanent status through an open competitive examination; or if he has a specified period of service in the agency, at its discretion he may obtain permanent status if he passes a noncompetitive qualifying examination. If he does not pass, such employee may be retained in the position in which he has incumbency preference without acquiring the right of merit system status. An employee with permanent status under a merit system meeting these standards will retain comparable status if the employing agency is placed under the jurisdiction of another merit system.
(Ord. No. 75-20, § 4, 3-18-75)
Sec. 16B-1-9. - Merit system executive.
The Columbus Merit System of Personnel Administration will be administered by a qualified merit system executive who shall be the personnel officer.
(Ord. No. 75-20, § 5, 3-18-75)
Sec. 16B-1-10. - Merit system review committee.
(a)
A committee to be known as the merit system review committee is formally established. The composition of the merit system review committee shall consist of the city manager and the sheriff of Muscogee County as permanent members of the committee. The personnel officer and the affirmative action officer shall serve as permanent ex officio members and shall not have the right to vote. Other members of the committee shall consist of five department directors as voting members of the committee, who shall serve for one-year terms commencing July 1st of each year. The following department directors for even-numbered years shall consist of: The director of administration, the director of the department of engineering, the director of the department of finance, the director of department of community development, and the chief of the fire department. The following department directors for odd-numbered years shall consist of: The director of parks and recreation, the Muscogee County Tax Commissioner, director of the department of public works, director of the department of transportation and the chief of police.
(b)
The general duties of this committee shall consist of:
(1)
A continuous review and appraisal of the position classifications within the merit system;
(2)
An examination of individual problems resulting from application of the merit system that may result in inequity or administrative problems; and
(3)
An examination of special classes of problems that may arise from application of the merit system.
(c)
The committee shall have authority to review and act upon requests for reclassification or upgrading of persons in the merit system on an individual basis. Also, the committee shall review and act upon requests for entry of new personnel in grades and steps higher than those normally specified for entry level.
The merit system review committee shall make recommendations upon the request for reclassification without regard to identity of individual.
The committee shall receive request for reclassification from full-time elected or appointed officers who serve in a supervisory capacity and department directors only.
The official requesting reclassification shall be invited to be present at the committee meeting when his request for reclassification is being considered.
Members of this committee, other than the City Manager, shall not be eligible to cast a vote in committee action directly affecting his own department.
The committee shall make a determination on each request for reclassification within 45 days after the receipt of request.
The committee shall not have the authority to act to create new positions or new grades or new classifications, and in this respect, it shall function as a recommending body to the council only. In its continuous review of the merit system, the committee may identify other problems which shall be referred to the council for appropriate action.
(d)
The merit system review committee shall be authorized to meet from time to time as need arises and conduct its business under rules or guidelines established by the committee.
(e)
The council shall receive reports from the merit system review committee which contain (1) the actions taken by the Committee; and (2) an up-to-date version of the merit system position classifications, grades, and pay scales in January, April, July and October of each calendar year. Recommendations of the committee for council action shall be submitted as need arises.
(Ord. No. 78-96, §§ 1—5, 8-15-78; Ord. No. 83-1, § 1, 1-4-83; Ord. No. 84-89, 9-25-84; Ord. No. 84-90, 9-25-84)
