ARTICLE II. - POSITION CLASSIFICATION PLAN

Sec. 16B-2-1. - Definitions.
The position classification plan is the official or approved system of grouping positions into appropriate classes, including (1) a schematic index to the class specifications; (2) the class specifications and (3) rules of administration. It covers all positions under the merit system as specified by the Charter, section 8-302.
(a)
For position classification purposes, a "position" is a group of currently assigned duties and responsibilities requiring the full or part-time employment of one person. A position may be occupied or vacant.
(b)
A "class" is a group of positions (or one position) that: (1) has similar duties and responsibilities, (2) requires like qualifications, experience and minimum training and, (3) can be equitably compensated by the same salary range.
(c)
The "class title" is the official designation or name of the class as stated in the class specification. It shall be used on all personnel records and actions. Working or office titles may be used for purposes of internal administration.
(d)
"Permanent full-time employee." An employee whose position requires him to work not less than 12 months per calendar year, and not less than 40 hours a week is categorized as a permanent full-time employee.
(e)
"Permanent part-time employee." An employee whose position requires him to work not less than nine months per calendar year and not less than 20 hours per week is categorized as a permanent part-time employee.
(f)
"Part-time employee." An employee whose position requires him to work not less than nine months per calendar year but less than 20 hours per week is categorized as a part-time employee.
(g)
"Temporary employee." An employee whose position requires him to work less than nine months per calendar year regardless of the number of hours worked per week is categorized as a temporary employee.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 2, § 1, 8-17-71; Ord. No. 72-75, 5-2-72; Ord. No. 75-20, § 6, 3-18-75)
Sec. 16B-2-2. - Responsibility for administration.
The personnel officer under the director of administration shall be responsible for administering the position classification plan.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 2, § 2, 8-17-71; Ord. No. 75-20, § 7, 3-18-75)
Sec. 16B-2-3. - Allocation of positions; creation of classes.
After the establishment of a new position has been approved, the appointing authority involved shall complete a position description covering the duties and responsibilities of each proposed position. The personnel officer shall allocate the position to one of the classes in the classification plan. If a suitable class does not exist, he shall recommend the establishment of a new class and after the adoption of the new class, as provided in section 8-304 of the Charter, shall allocate the position to it.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 2, § 3, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-2-4. - Allocation appeals.
If an employee has facts which indicate to him that his position is improperly allocated, he may request the personnel officer to review the allocation of his position with the knowledge of his appointing authority. Such request shall be submitted in writing and shall contain a statement of justification.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 2, § 4, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-2-5. - Maintenance of plan.
(a)
Each time a vacancy occurs, a position description shall be completed by the appointing authority and submitted to the personnel officer for a review of the allocation of the position. The personnel officer may waive this requirement in cases where he has determined that no material changes have occurred.
(b)
It shall be the duty of each appointing authority to submit to the personnel officer new position descriptions for all affected positions each time a department or division under his jurisdiction is permanently or substantially reorganized.
(c)
The personnel officer may require departments or employees to submit position descriptions on a periodic basis, or any time he has reason to believe that there has been a change in the duties and responsibilities of one or more positions.
(d)
Each time a new class is established, a class specification shall be written and incorporated in the existing plan. The class title shall be added to the schematic list of titles. Likewise an abolished class shall be deleted from the classification plan by removing the class title from the schematic list of titles.
(e)
Periodically, after the adoption of these regulations, the personnel officer shall conduct a general review of the classification plan.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 2, § 5, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-2-6. - Interpretation of class specifications.
The class specifications are descriptive and not restrictive. The use of a particular description as to duties, qualifications or other factors shall not be held to exclude others of similar kind of quality. They are intended to indicate the kinds of positions which shall be allocated to the classes established. In a series of classes such as the police classes, the specifications for all classes should be reviewed as a unit.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 2, § 6, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-2-7. - Official copy of the position classification plan.
The personnel officer shall be responsible for maintaining an official copy of the position classification plan. The official copy shall include a schematic list of class titles and class specifications plus all amendments thereto. A copy of the official plan shall be available for inspection by the public under reasonable conditions during business hours.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 2, § 7, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-2-8. - Amendments to the position classification plan.
Each time a new class of positions should be established or a current class of positions abolished, the personnel officer shall make a study and submit his findings and recommendations to the director, department of administration, for processing in accordance with section 8-304 of the Charter.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 2, § 8, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-2-9. - Position classification plan in force.
The position classification plan shall be considered a part of this section and have the same force and effect as these personnel regulations.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 2, § 9, 8-17-71)
