ARTICLE VI. - PERSONNEL
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-336. - Title.
This division shall be known and may be cited as the "Columbia County Civil Service Ordinance" or the "Columbia County Human Resources Ordinance."
(Code 1979, § 2-11-1; Ord. No. 95-6, § 2, 12-19-1995)
Sec. 2-337. - Purpose.
The purpose of this division is to provide for the management and administration of the human resources of the county. Policies and procedures shall be developed and maintained to provide for the recruitment, selection, development and maintenance of an effective and responsible work force, and shall cover hiring, advancement, training, career development, job classification, discharge and other related activities. All appointments and promotions of employees of the county shall be made without regard to sex, race, religion or political affiliation, and shall be based on merit and fitness.
(Code 1979, § 2-11-2; Ord. No. 95-6, § 2, 12-19-1995)
Sec. 2-338. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commission means the Columbia County, Georgia Civil Service Commission.
Elected official means the clerk of the superior court, coroner, judge of the probate court, magistrate, sheriff and tax commissioner of the county.
Officer or director of a political action committee means any director or executive officer of a political action committee as defined in O.C.G.A. § 21-5-3, 21-5-30.1 or 21-5-30.2.
Officer or director of a political party means any director elected by a political party to serve within the county as a whole, and not officers elected or appointed to serve within precincts or districts within the county but not within the county as a whole.
Regular employment position means each job or position of employment with the county which is intended by the county, at its inception, to be for an unspecified and continuing term, and excluding any temporary employment position.
Temporary employment position means any job or position of employment with the county which is intended, at its inception, to be for a stated definite term or for a period terminating upon the occurrence of a specified event.
(Code 1979, § 2-11-3; Ord. No. 95-6, § 2, 12-19-1995)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 2-339. - Application.
This division shall apply to all regular employment positions of the county, except the following:
(1)
The members of the board of commissioners and other elected positions, including, but not limited to, the elected officials and those elected officers who serve in other counties in addition to Columbia County.
(2)
Members of boards, commissions, authorities, task forces, citizens committees and other similar bodies appointed by the board of commissioners.
(3)
Employees of the elected officials, unless the proper elections have been made by such officials to place his employees under this division as provided in this Code.
(4)
Employees of any boards, authorities or other similar agencies of the county over which such board, authority or other similar agency has the authority to hire and fire unless the proper elections have been made by any such board, authority or similar agency to place its employees under this division as provided in this Code.
(5)
The clerk of the board of commissioners, the county administrator, the directors of the various departments of the county government, and any other high ranking management employee which position, when created, is exempted from the application of this division, and which is provided to serve at the pleasure of the board of commissioners.
(6)
Persons employed to make or conduct a temporary and special inquiry, investigation or examination on behalf of the board of commissioners or a committee thereof.
(7)
Temporary employment position.
(Code 1979, § 2-11-4; Ord. No. 95-6, § 2, 12-19-1995)
Sec. 2-340. - Written application required to request coverage.
The positions of employment within the offices of any elected official, or any board, authority or similar agency of the county, shall be subject to and covered by this division upon written application to the board of commissioners by the elected official or such board, authority or similar agency request that the employees thereof be subject to and covered by this division. Such application shall relate to all employees over which the elected official or such board, authority or similar agency has the power of appointment, employment or removal. Once the positions of employment with an elected official or such board, authority or similar agency are made subject to this division, such positions of employment shall not be removed from the application of this division even though the elected official making the application to the board of commissioners shall cease to hold such office and shall be succeeded by another or the makeup of the membership of such board, authority or similar agency shall change.
(Code 1979, § 2-11-5; Ord. No. 95-6, § 2, 12-19-1995)
Sec. 2-341. - Human resources management.
The personnel management functions for the county shall be provided for through the county administrators office. The county administrator shall designate a human resources manager to report directly to the county administrators office.
(1)
The human resources manager shall perform the following functions:
a.
Supervise and manage those employees of the county working in the area of personnel administration as designated by the county administrators office, which employees shall make up the human resources section of the offices of the management services division.
b.
Provide administrative assistance and support to the commission so that it may efficiently and properly carry out its functions and duties.
(2)
The county administrators office shall perform the following functions in furtherance of the mission of human resource management:
a.
Oversee all aspects of the county's personnel management and administration in accordance with directions and guidelines given by the board of commissioners and the county administrator.
b.
At least annually update and periodically review the county's personnel policies and procedures to see that they are being followed, meet the needs of the county and its employees and are current and in accordance with the existing structure for the management and administration of the county's personnel. Recommendations for changes shall be made to the board of commissioners after consultation with the commission as set forth in section 2-368(1).
c.
Seek to resolve all grievances presented in accordance with the provision of the county personnel policies and procedures and see that the procedures for resolving grievances are properly followed and carried out.
d.
Provide administrative assistance and support to the commission so that it may efficiently and properly carry out its functions and duties.
e.
Certify on payroll vouchers that the persons named on such payroll vouchers have been appointed and employed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the policies and procedures adopted under this chapter. No county disbursing or auditing officer shall make or approve, or take any part in approving, any payment for personal service to any person holding an employment position with the county unless such payroll voucher or account bears the certification of the human resources manager.
(Code 1979, § 2-11-9; Ord. No. 95-6, § 2, 12-19-1995; Ord. No. 02-8, § 4, 8-6-2002; Ord. No. 17-08 , § 13(Exh. M), 2-6-2018)
Sec. 2-342. - Personnel policies and procedures.
The personnel policies and procedures of the county in effect on December 19, 1995, shall continue in effect after such date, such to any amendments, restatements or replacements of the personnel policies and procedures adopted by the board of commissioners. The personnel policies and procedures shall cover, but shall not be limited to, the following:
(1)
The preparation, maintenance and revision of a position classification plan for all regular employment positions covered by this chapter, based upon similarity of duties performed and responsibilities assumed, so that such qualifications may reasonably be required for, and that the schedule of pay may be equitably applied to, all positions in the same class. After such classification plan has been approved by the board of commissioners, the human resources manager shall allocate or reallocate the position of every employee covered by this chapter to one of the classes in the plan. Any employee affected by the allocation or reallocation of a position to a class shall, after filing with the human resources manager a form as the human resources manager may prescribe, be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard thereon.
(2)
The establishment of a compensation plan for all county employees.
(3)
The recruitment of capable persons and for administering of fair and open evaluations, to determine the relative fitness of applicants for positions with the county.
(4)
The certification to the appointing authority of the names of persons who are categorized as qualified to fill a vacancy with the county.
(5)
The establishment and maintenance of eligible lists for appointments and promotions.
(6)
The method for promotions which shall give appropriate consideration to the applicant's qualifications, record of performance and ability.
(7)
Upon appointment or promotion, a period of employee probation, not to exceed one year. If an employee is terminated during such probationary period, the employee shall not be entitled to the grievance procedures established for regular employment positions.
(8)
The establishment of programs, including trainee programs, designed to attract and utilize persons with minimal qualifications, but with potential for development, in order to provide career development opportunities among members of disadvantaged groups, handicapped persons and returning veterans. Such programs may provide for appointment upon the satisfactory completion of the training period without further examination.
(9)
The keeping of records of the performance of all employees covered by this chapter, which performance records shall be considered in determining salary increments or increases for meritorious services; as a factor in promotions; as a factor in determining the order of layoffs because of lack of funds or work and in reinstatement; and as a factor in demotions, discharges and transfers.
(10)
Provisions for layoffs by reason of lack of funds or work, or abolition of a position, or material change in duties or organization, and for reemployment of employees so laid off.
(11)
The establishment of a plan and procedures for resolving grievances and complaints and the procedures for hearings and appeals in connection with such grievances and complaints, which shall include the provisions set forth in section 2-368(2). Such measures shall provide for presentation of charges, hearing rights and appeals for all permanent employees in the career service.
(12)
The establishment of hours of work, holidays and attendance regulations in various classes of positions in the career service.
(13)
The establishment of fringe benefits, such as insurance programs, retirement and leave policies.
(14)
The development and operation of programs to improve work effectiveness, including training, safety, health, welfare, counseling, recreation and employee relations.
(15)
Such other policies and administrative regulations, not inconsistent with this chapter, as may be proper and necessary for the enforcement of this chapter.
(Code 1979, § 2-11-10; Ord. No. 95-6, § 2, 12-19-1995)
Secs. 2-343—2-365. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION

Sec. 2-366. - Created; membership.
(a)
Created. There is created the civil service commission of the county, which shall consist of seven members appointed by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Qualifications of members. Any person appointed to the civil service commission as a member thereof by the board of commissioners shall, at the time of appointment and throughout the time of service:
(1)
Have been a resident of the county for two or more years;
(2)
Not hold an elective or appointive office in either federal, state, county or municipal government, provided that prior service as a member of the commission shall not disqualify a person from being reappointed thereto;
(3)
Not have been a salaried employee of the county during the 12 preceding months;
(4)
Not be an officer or director of a political party which has run candidates for public office in the county within the preceding two years;
(5)
Not be an officer or director of a political action committee which has contributed funds to any candidate running for public office in the county within the preceding two years; and
(6)
Be at least 21 years of age.
(c)
Terms of appointment vacancies. Each member of the civil service commission serving on the date of adoption of this section shall continue to serve for the balance of his/her term. At the expiration of the terms of the members of the civil service commission their successors shall be appointed by the board of commissioners for a term as specified in the bylaws promulgated by the board of commissioners for the governance and operation of the civil service commission. A vacancy in the membership of the civil service commission caused by a member's death, resignation, disqualification or other conditions shall be filled by appointment by the board of commissioners for the unexpired term of such member; provided, however, that if a vacancy results by one of the current members ceasing to serve, the vacancy shall be filled only for the balance of the calendar year in which the vacancy occurs, and thereafter such position shall be filled for the term as provided in the bylaws. The members appointed to serve on the civil service commission must consist of one person who is experienced in the field of health and/or safety, one person who is experienced in the field of business or construction, one person who is experienced in the field of insurance and employee benefits, and one person who is experienced in the field of human resources. The three remaining members of the civil service commission must be residents of Columbia County with no additional requirements other than those set forth in subsection (b).
(d)
Officers. The officers of the civil service commission shall be as designated and shall be elected as provided for in the bylaws of the civil service commission.
(e)
Bylaws. The board of commissioners shall promulgate by resolution bylaws for the governance and operation of the civil service commission.
(f)
Removal of members. No member of the civil service commission may be removed from office prior to the expiration of his term, except for cause, after having been granted a notice and afforded a public and open hearing before the board of commissioners. Prior to the hearing, such member shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail addressed to his residence, as shown in the files of the county, at least ten days before the date set for the hearing, with written specifications of the charges against him. Failure of a member to attend three consecutive meetings of the civil service commission shall constitute cause for removal from the commission.
(Code 1979, § 2-11-6; Ord. No. 95-6, § 2, 12-19-1995; Ord. No. 07-9, §§ 1—4, 11-6-2007)
Sec. 2-367. - Meetings.
Meetings of the civil service commission shall be held and conducted as provided for in the bylaws of the civil service commission.
(Code 1979, § 2-11-7; Ord. No. 95-6, § 2, 12-19-1995; Ord. No. 07-9, § 5, 11-6-2007)
Sec. 2-368. - Duties and responsibilities.
The civil service commission shall perform the following duties and responsibilities.
(1)
Provide input and make recommendations on all current or proposed policies and procedures. The comments and recommendations of the commission on such matters shall be considered by the board of commissioners when policies are presented.
(2)
Hear the appeals of grievances under the then current county personnel policies and procedures which the county staff and the employee have not been able to resolve. At such hearing, the parties may present evidence relevant to the issues being considered; however, the technical rules of evidence shall not apply. Relevant evidence shall be any evidence that a reasonable person would consider in seeking to rule on the issues presented, as determined by the civil service commission. All testimony shall be under oath or affirmation. A record of the proceeding shall be made by tape recording or court reporter. If the decision of the commission is appealed, a written transcript of the record shall be prepared. The commission shall render its findings in a written report to be submitted to the parties to the grievance in not more than three business days following the day of the conclusion of the hearing. Either party to the grievance may appeal the findings of the commission to the board of commissioners in accordance with procedures for such appeal set out in the current county personnel policies and procedures. The appeal to the board of commissioners shall be based on the record of the proceeding before the commission and no evidence shall be presented to the board of commissioners, unless the board of commissioners shall make a finding that the evidence was not available at the time of the hearing before the commission or could not have been discovered at that time with the exercise of due diligence and agrees to allow the submission of the specified evidence.
(Code 1979, § 2-11-8; Ord. No. 95-6, § 2, 12-19-1995; Ord. No. 17-08 , § 14(Exh. N), 2-6-2018)
Secs. 2-369—2-400. - Reserved.
