ARTICLE XVI. - POLITICAL ACTIVITIES AND ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS OR GRATUITIES

Sec. 16B-16-1. - Limitations on political activity.
No person holding a position in the merit system shall directly or indirectly solicit or receive in any manner or be concerned with soliciting or receiving any assistance or subscriptions or contributions for any political purpose or participation of any form of political activity whatsoever, other than to express privately his rights as a citizen and to cast his vote at any election. No employee in the merit system shall be a member of any national, state or local committee of a political party, or officer or member of a committee of a partisan political club, or shall take part in any political campaign.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 16, § 1, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-16-2. - General statement on political activities.
Any group of persons which opposes another group in matters of governmental principles or policies, or which contends for governmental power is a political party. Since the scope of governmental activity is constantly changing, a question which is not a political issue at one time may assume a political aspect at another. The merits of a particular cause or issue are immaterial. If politics are involved, active participation by employees of the consolidated city is prohibited. An employee may participate in a discussion where no political issue is involved or make an address or any moral or ethical subject, but when two or more parties or factions become engaged in a contest for rival or antagonistic measures or policies of governmental control or regulation, a political issue is created.
All employees in the merit system are subject to the prohibition against political activity, including emergency and temporary employees, employees on leave of absence without pay, part-time employees and persons employed on an intermittent basis.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 16, § 2, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-16-3. - Detailed description of prohibited and permissible political activity.
The activities described below are intended to indicate the kinds of activities which are prohibited. They are not to be construed as all-inclusive.
(a)
Conventions: Candidacy for or service as a delegate, alternate or proxy in any political convention or service as an officer or employee thereof is prohibited. Attendance merely as a spectator is permissible, but the employee so attending must not take any part in the convention or in the deliberations or proceedings of any of its committees and must refrain from any public display of partisanship or obtrusive demonstration or interference.
(b)
Primaries, caucuses: An employee may sign a petition to hold a primary, may attend a primary meeting, mass convention, caucus and the like, and may cast his vote on any question presented, but he may not pass this point in participating in its deliberations. He may not act as an officer of the meeting, convention or caucus, may not address it, make motions, prepare or assist in preparing resolutions, assume to represent others or take any prominent part therein.
(c)
Committees: Service on or for any political committee or similar organization is prohibited. An employee may attend as a spectator any meeting of a political committee to which the general public is admitted, but must refrain from activity as indicated in the preceding paragraphs.
(d)
Clubs and organizations: Employees may be members of political clubs, but it is improper for them to be active in organizing such a club, to be officers of the club, or members or officers of any of its committees or to act as such, or to address a political club. Service as a delegate from such a club to a league of political clubs or service as an officer or representative of a political club is prohibited, as is service as a delegate or representative of such a club to or in any other organization. In other words, an employee may become a member of a political club but may not take an active part in its management or affairs and may not represent other members or attempt to influence them by his actions or utterances.
(e)
Meetings: Service in preparing for, organizing or conducting a political meeting or rally, addressing such a meeting, or taking any part therein, except as a spectator, is prohibited.
(f)
Activity at the polls and for candidates: It is the duty of an employee to avoid any offensive activity at caucuses, primary and regular elections. He must refrain from soliciting votes, assisting voters to mark ballots, helping to get out the voters on registration and election days, acting as the accredited checker, watcher or challenger of any party or faction, assisting in counting the vote, or engaging in any other activity at the polls except to cast his own vote. Rendering service, such as transporting voters to and from the polls and candidates on canvassing tours, whether for pay or gratuitously, is held to be within the scope of political activities prohibited by the rule, even if such service is performed without regard to political party. It is provided however, that the provisions hereof prohibiting the transportation of voters shall not apply to the public transportation system and where by resolution the council authorizes the free use of the public transportation system on election days the same shall not be in violation of this subparagraph of this section of the Code of Ordinances.
(g)
Election of officers: Service as judge of election, inspector, checker, teller, or as election officer of any kind is prohibited.
(h)
Newspapers; publication of letters or articles: A classified employee may not publish or be connected editorially or managerially with any political newspaper and may not write for publication or publish any letter or articles, signed or unsigned, in favor of or against any political party, candidate, function or measure. An employee who writes such a letter or article is responsible for any use that may be made of it whether or not he gives consent to such use.
(i)
Parades: An employee may not march in a political parade, organize or be an officer or leader of such parades.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit a merit system employee from performing the specific duties of his position.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 16, § 3, 8-17-71; Ord. No. 74-176, § 1, 12-3-74)
Sec. 16B-16-4. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 99-21, § 1, adopted April 13, 1999, repealed former § 16B-16-4, which pertained to acceptance of gifts or gratuity and derived from Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 16, adopted Aug. 17, 1971. Section 2 of Ord. No. 99-21 adopted Human Resources Policies Numbered 220-501 Work Rules, 220-502 Disciplinary Action, 220-503 Involuntary Termination of Employment, 220-504 Fair Treatment Policy, and 220-505 Personnel Review Board, dated April 1, 1999; official copies of said policies shall be maintained in the office of the city manager.
