Chapter 66 - ROADS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building construction, ch. 18; environment, ch. 34; floods, ch. 42; mobile homes and trailers, ch. 54; subdivisions, ch. 74; road and bridge operation and maintenance regulations adopted by reference, § 82-1; water and sewers, ch. 86.
State Law reference— Governmental authorization for construction or maintenance of any private road unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-8; state, county and municipal road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-1 et seq.; county road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-40 et seq.; regulation of maintenance and use of public roads generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1 et seq.; power to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, street lights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 66-1. - Authority to order removal and relocation of utility facilities; notice; failure to remove.
(a)
Any utility using or occupying any part of a public road which the county has undertaken to improve or intends to improve shall remove and relocate such utility's facility when, in the reasonable opinion of the county, the facility constitutes an obstruction or interference with the use or safe operation of such road by the traveling public, or when, in the reasonable opinion of the county, the facility will interfere with any contemplated construction or maintenance.
(b)
Whenever the county reasonably determines it necessary to have a utility facility removed and relocated, the county shall give the utility at least 60 days' written notice directing the removal and relocation of such obstruction. If the utility does not begin removal of such obstruction within a reasonable time sufficient to allow for engineering and other procedures reasonably necessary to the removal and relocation of such facility, the county may give the utility a final notice directing that such removal shall commence not later than ten days from the receipt of such final notice. If the utility does not, within such ten-day period, begin to remove or relocate the facility or, having so begun removal or relocation, fails to complete the removal or relocation within a reasonable time, the county may remove or relocate the facility with its own employees, or by employing or contracting for the necessary engineering, labor, tools, equipment, supervision or other necessary services or materials, and whatever else is necessary to accomplish the removal or relocation of such facility; and the expense of such removal or relocation may be paid and collected as provided in section 66-3.
(Code 1979, § 2-11.5-1)
Sec. 66-2. - Authority to obtain replacement right-of-way for relocated utility.
(a)
Whenever a public road improvement necessitates the acquisition by the county of a utility's privately owned rights-of-way and the relocation of such utility's facilities, the county may, with the written consent of the utility, provide a replacement right-of-way.
(b)
Whenever a public road improvement requires the relocation of a utility occupying public road rights-of-way, the county may, at the written request of such utility, provide to the utility a right-of-way which is not on a public road right-of-way, and the utility shall reimburse the county for the acquisition costs.
(c)
Title to property acquired for utility relocation under subsection (a) or (b) of this section, and as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 32-3-1 may be transferred to such utility, however, the procedures for sale of property as set forth in O.G.C.A. § 32-7-4 shall not be applicable to the transfer of property acquired for utility relocation or property on which utilities are located, pursuant to O.G.C.A. § 32-7-3. Any such property transfer to the utility shall be conveyed by the execution of a quit claim deed by the county board of commissioners.
(Code 1979, § 2-11.5-2; Ord. No. 02-3, § 1, 3-5-2002)
Sec. 66-3. - Payment of expenses of removal and relocation of utility facilities.
The expenses incurred by the county as a result of utility removal and relocation pursuant to section 66-1(b), including the cost of acquiring new land or interest therein pursuant to section 66-2(b), shall be paid out of the available appropriations of the county for the construction or maintenance of public roads. A statement of such expenses shall be submitted to the utility, which shall make payment to the county. If the utility does not make payment or arrange to make payment to the county within 60 days after the receipt of such statement, the county shall certify the amount for collection to the county attorney. Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to deprive any utility compensation for such property interest.
(Code 1979, § 2-11.5-3)
Sec. 66-4. - Prohibition of installation on county property of private utilities.
(a)
No pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, pumps, ditches or similar materials, equipment or facilities shall be installed or maintained in the road rights-of-way or other property of Columbia County by any person or other entity who is not engaged in the business of providing the utility service to the general public and who is installing such items, equipment or facilities solely for the purpose of serving a small number of properties, herein referred to as "private utilities".
(b)
Neither Columbia County nor any of the public utility providers shall allow a private utility to tap onto or hook up to or otherwise obtain the use of the utility service being provided from its utility lines or systems anywhere within the rights-of-way or property of Columbia County or in any instance where the tap or hook up may be located on private property but the private utility then runs through Columbia County right-of-way or other Columbia County property. Where any tap or connection of a private utility to a public utility system occurs or is discovered which is in violation of this section, it shall be disconnected by Columbia County or the public utility provider to whose lines or system the private utility is attached, as the case may be, after 30 days' prior written notice of the disconnection is given to the owners and occupants (if different from the owners) of the property served by the private utility. This section shall not apply to a private utility which has been installed prior to March 5, 2002 and which has been, prior to such date, and is continuing to be maintained pursuant to a written agreement with Columbia County for as long as such agreement shall remain in force.
(c)
This section shall not apply to the installation of utility lines or other utility facilities in Columbia County's road rights-of-way or its other property which work is done with the prior written approval of Columbia County and which are to be conveyed and dedicated to Columbia County upon completion of the construction or installation thereof and acceptance by the county. In addition, this section shall not apply to any utility line installed to connect a property to a public utility line or system where the connection is made within a Columbia County right-of-way or other Columbia County property at a point immediately adjacent to the property to be served.
(d)
Developers of subdivisions which are located in zoning districts providing for professional, commercial or industrial uses may apply to the county for an easement to place water lines, valves and sprinkler heads which are part of a private irrigation system within the public road rights-of-way located within the subdivision. Such easements must be requested at or before the time of filing with the county the preliminary subdivision plat pursuant to section 74-37 of this Code. The 'as built' location of the water lines and sprinkler heads within the public rights-of-way must be shown on the final subdivision plat before it shall be approved by the planning commission pursuant to subsection 74-39(c) of this Code and before the public facilities shown on the final plat are accepted by the board of commissioners. The granting of such an easement shall lie within the sole discretion of the board of commissioners. The terms of the easement agreement pursuant to which the county may grant an easement for these private irrigation systems, shall include but not be limited to, a requirement that an owners association must be formed as a Georgia nonprofit corporation (the "association") and provisions made therefore in covenants running with the land applicable to all of the lots located within the subdivision. The association shall be required to maintain, repair and replace the private irrigation system, to pay for the water purchased from the county for such irrigation system and to otherwise administer the operation of the irrigation system and to what assessment from all members of the association to pay for the expenses incurred by the association. The easement shall terminate and the county may disable or remove the irrigation system from its rights-of-way if the association fails to carry out its functions and or obligations under the easement agreement. The developer and the principals thereof shall guarantee the obligations of the owners association for a period that ends ten years after the developer or any affiliate of the developer last owned any interest or held any lien, security interest or security title in any lot in the subdivision.
(Ord. No. 02-2, § 3, 3-5-2002; Ord. No. 06-06, § 1, 11-21-2006)
Sec. 66-5. - Promulgation of regulations.
The county may promulgate reasonable regulations governing the installation, fees, construction, maintenance, renewal, removal and relocation of pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, towers, tracks, traffic and other such signals, and other equipment and appliances of any utility in, on, along, over or under any part of the county road system which the county has undertaken or agreed to undertake, or which has been completed by the county, pursuant to its authority, in addition to the requirements of such county regulations.
(Code 1979, § 2-11.5-4; Ord. No. 02-2, § 1, 3-5-2002)
Sec. 66-6. - Right to injunctive relief.
(a)
The county may petition for an injunction to enforce the performance of any duty or act imposed by this article, or for an order to restrain the breach of any duty or the commission of any act imposed, prohibited or unauthorized by this article.
(b)
Any person who violates any provision of this article, or fails to comply with the requirements of this article, including any regulation promulgated by the county, shall be subject to penalties and fines as set forth in section 1-9. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. The owner of any utility, its agents, representatives, employees or other person who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may each be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties set forth in this subsection.
(Code 1979, § 2-11.5-5; Ord. No. 02-2, § 2, 3-5-2002)
Secs. 66-7—66-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ROAD REGISTER AND OFFICIAL MAP

Sec. 66-36. - General intent.
The intent of the road register and official map is to establish the jurisdiction of the county in maintaining public roads; develop a functional classification and standards for road rights-of-way; identify the roads to be maintained and improved by federal, state and county funds; and establish procedures for the administration, use and amendment of the road register and official map.
(Code 1979, § 2-15-2)
Sec. 66-37. - Applicability.
The provisions of this article shall apply to all roads in the unincorporated areas of the county, and those designated county roads located inside city limits.
(Code 1979, § 2-15-3)
Sec. 66-38. - Functional classification system and standards for road rights-of-way.
(a)
For the purposes of classifying county roads by their functional use, the following categories of roads and required rights-of-way are established:
EXPAND
Categories of Roads Required Road Rights-of-Way
(feet)
(1) County arterial roads 100
(2) County collector roads  80
(3) Land service 1 (paved) As provided in this Code
(4) Land service 2 (unpaved)  80
  (b)
The standards for road rights-of-way shall be used in reviewing and approving proposed subdivisions of land within the county as provided in chapter 74 of this Code.
(Code 1979, § 2-15-4)
Sec. 66-39. - Created; content; conflict.
(a)
There is created in the county an official document known as the Road Register of Columbia County, Georgia. Such register shall be amended, from time to time, by resolution of the board of commissioners, using the local certification authorization (L.C.A.) form.
(b)
There is created in the county an official document known as the Official Map of Columbia County, Georgia. Such official map shall be adopted, from time to time, by resolution of the board of commissioners.
(c)
The road register and the official map of the county identify the roads to be maintained and improved by federal, state and county funds within the county.
(d)
The road register shall contain an alphabetical listing of county maintained roads and a numerical listing of county road numbers.
(e)
The official map of the county shall contain a graphic representation of the road register.
(f)
All county owned and maintained roads shall be listed in the road register.
(g)
In case of a conflict between the road register and the official map of the county, the road register shall control.
(Code 1979, § 2-15-5)
Sec. 66-40. - Administration; use; amendment.
(a)
The road register and official map of the county shall be maintained by the director of engineering services. The road register and official map of the county are to be used for the following purposes:
(1)
Establish priority in funding road improvements by determining functional use and required rights-of-way; and
(2)
Establish standards for rights-of-way acquisition as part of subdivision plat approval.
(b)
The road register and official map of the county may, from time to time, be amended by resolution of the board of commissioners, using the local certification authorization (L.C.A.) form. Any proposed amendments shall first be submitted to the engineering services committee for its review. All approved amendments shall be submitted to the state department of transportation through use of a local certification authorization form.
(Code 1979, § 2-15-6; Ord. No. 17-08 , § 17(Exh. Q), 2-6-2018)
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-186 et seq.
