Chapter 70 - SOLID WASTE[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Dead animals, § 14-13; buildings and building construction, ch. 18; environment, ch. 34; health and sanitation, ch. 46; mobile homes and trailers, ch. 54; water and sewers, ch. 86.
State Law reference— Local, multijurisdictional and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; solid waste management education program, establishment of Georgia Clean and Beautiful Advisory Committee and Interagency Council on Solid Waste Management, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-7.3.

Sec. 70-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Litter means all discarded sand, gravel, brickbats, rubbish, nonfunctioning motor vehicle parts, small appliances, appliance parts, waste material, tin cans, garbage, trash, debris, dead animals or other discarded materials of every kind and description, which are not defined as "waste" in this section.
Private property means any property owned by a private person.
Public property means the right-of-way of any public road or highway; any publicly owned or controlled body of water or watercourse; any public park, playground, refuge, conservation or recreation area; and any other land or buildings owned by the United States, the state or any governmental entity, agency or political subdivision of the state or the United States.
Responsible authority means the county engineering and environmental services division, or any other division of the county government designated by the board of commissioners to implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter, or its authorized representatives, together with the county sheriff's office.
Scrap tire means any tire which is no longer suitable for its original intended purpose because of wear, damage or defect.
Waste means all discarded substances and materials exceeding ten pounds in weight or 15 cubic feet in volume, or any such substance of any weight or volume if biomedical waste, hazardous waste (as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-62), a hazardous substance (as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-92) or any such substance or material dumped for commercial purposes. This term includes, but is not limited to, bottles; boxes; containers; papers, tobacco products; tires; appliances; mechanical equipment or parts; building or construction materials; tools; machinery; wood; motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts; vessels; aircraft equipment; waste oil; batteries; antifreeze; sludge from a wastewater treatment facility, water supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility; discarded material; or substance of any kind or description resulting from domestic, industrial, commercial, mining or governmental operations, including household, commercial, construction and demolition waste or industrial solid waste which is nonhazardous, nonmedical and in a form classified as solid waste by the state department of natural resources.
(Code 1979, § 2-12.5-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 70-2. - Functions of the responsible authority.
In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people of the county and those temporarily located in the county, the responsible authority is authorized and directed to implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter, and in doing so, to control the storage, collection and disposal of litter and waste within the county, to operate the county's landfill and any other litter and waste collection and disposal facilities, equipment or systems owned and/or operated by the county to approve and regulate the establishment, maintenance and operation of private litter and waste collection systems, and litter and waste disposal methods and sites.
(Code 1979, § 2-12.5-2)
Sec. 70-3. - Funds.
The board of commissioners may make funds available by appropriation, borrowing, collecting fees and charges and operating an enterprise fund or other means, in accordance with the laws of the state and the county, to purchase or lease equipment for the disposal of litter and waste, and for the establishment, maintenance and operation of waste and litter collection systems and disposal methods, facilities and sites.
(Code 1979, § 2-12.5-3)
Sec. 70-4. - Disposal.
(a)
The person which is the owner, user and/or occupant of any land and/or building in the unincorporated areas of the county shall be responsible for the sanitary and proper handling and disposition of litter, waste and scrap tires generated on or located on the land and/or in the building owned, used or occupied by such person. It shall be unlawful to dump, deposit, throw, leave or cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter, waste or scrap tires at any place in the unincorporated areas of the county, including, without limitation, any public or private property, lakes, streams, rivers, ponds or other waters in the unincorporated areas of the county, or which flow through the unincorporated areas of the county, unless the:
(1)
Property is designed as a solid waste landfill, transfer station or other solid waste disposal site, and properly permitted by the state for such use; or
(2)
Litter or waste is placed into a receptacle or container installed or maintained on such property for the temporary storage of litter or waste; provided, however, that any litter or waste placed into such receptacle or container must not be allowed to accumulate to the point of overflowing the container or receptacle, or to a point where the container or receptacle cannot be closed. All litter or waste stored in such fashion must be transported to a facility as set forth in subsection (a)(1) of this section within 14 days of being placed in the receptacle or container.
(b)
It shall be unlawful, unless authorized to do so by law or by a duly issued permit, for any person to dump or place waste or litter in or on any:
(1)
Public highway, road, street, alley, right-of-way or thoroughfare, or on any other public land, except for the placing of litter or waste in containers lawfully provided for the temporary storage of such litter or waste.
(2)
Fresh water lake, river, canal, pond, stream or creek.
(Code 1979, § 2-12.5-4)
Sec. 70-5. - Litter and waste acceptable for disposal.
(a)
No substance or material shall be placed in any landfill, transfer station or other type of solid waste collection or disposal facility or system owned and/or operated by the county which would cause such facility or system to be in violation of any applicable federal or state law, rule or regulation. The board of commissioners, by resolution adopted from time to time, may limit or restrict the types of substances or materials which may be placed in any landfill, transfer station or other type of solid waste disposal facility which is owned or operated by the county.
(b)
Yard trimmings shall not be placed in or mixed with solid waste. Yard trimmings include, but are not limited to, grass clippings, leaves, pine straw, shrubbery and limbs. Yard trimmings shall not be disposed of at any solid waste disposal facility which has liners and a leachate collection system or requires vertical expansion within the county. Yard trimmings shall be sorted and stockpiled, or chipped, composted, used as mulch or otherwise beneficially reused or recycled to the maximum extent feasible. Yard trimmings which are to be collected by any person other than the property owner shall be sorted and stored in such a manner as to facilitate collection, composting or other handling.
(Code 1979, § 2-12.5-5)
Sec. 70-6. - Transporting.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to drive or operate a vehicle in the county hauling wet or moist litter or waste which vehicle allows such material to leak, flow freely or spill from such vehicle.
(b)
Any litter or waste hauled on a moving vehicle in the unincorporated areas of the county shall be placed in an enclosed area of the vehicle, or covered or secured by a tarpaulin or other form of covering or restraint device adequately tied or anchored in such a manner that the litter or waste will not blow or escape from such vehicle while such vehicle is moving or is parked on public or private streets or roadways in the county.
(c)
Vehicles used for the collection and transportation of waste or litter in the unincorporated areas of the county shall be maintained in good repair, have watertight, metal bodies of easily cleanable construction, and shall be kept sufficiently clean so as to prevent the creation of offensive or noxious odors, insect or rodent habitation, unsightly conditions or other conditions that would constitute a nuisance.
(Code 1979, § 2-12.5-6)
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 82.
Sec. 70-7. - Regulation of containers and receptacles.
(a)
Each waste or litter container or receptacle in the unincorporated areas of the county shall be maintained in as sanitary a condition as is reasonably possible consistent with such container's or receptacle's use for waste and litter disposal, and shall not be allowed to create strong, offensive or noxious odors, serve as an insect or rodent feeding area or habitat, become unsightly or cause other conditions which would constitute a nuisance.
(b)
Every person disposing of waste or litter in the unincorporated areas of the county shall place such waste or litter into containers or receptacles designed to temporarily store such waste or litter, or directly into the landfill, transfer station or other facility intended and properly permitted by the state for the disposal of waste and litter.
(c)
No person shall deposit any burning or smoldering material in waste or litter containers or receptacles located in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(d)
No person shall set fire to the contents of any waste or litter container or receptacle, scatter the contents thereof or otherwise vandalize, damage or destroy such container or receptacle.
(e)
No dead animal shall be deposited in any waste or litter container or receptacle. All dead animals shall be disposed of as provided for in the Dead Animal Disposal Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-5-1 et seq., and chapter 14 of this Code.
(f)
No person shall deposit large noncompatible articles in waste or litter containers or receptacles, including, but not limited to, stoves, refrigerators, other appliances, bed springs, mattresses, scrap tires, air conditioning units or similar items.
(g)
No person shall deposit any explosive material in any waste or litter container or receptacle.
(h)
No person shall place or store litter or waste in the area surrounding waste or litter containers or receptacles, which is not itself in a waste or litter container or receptacle.
(Code 1979, § 2-12.5-7)
Sec. 70-8. - Accumulation.
(a)
No owner or occupant of any land or building in the unincorporated areas of the county shall allow litter or waste to accumulate on such land or in such building, or shall bury or burn litter or waste on such land or in such building without prior authorization and permission from the applicable regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, the environmental protection division of the Environmental Protection Agency and/or the state forestry service. Nothing in this subsection shall authorize or be construed to permit the burial or burning of any material which is otherwise prohibited by federal or state law, rule or regulation.
(b)
No owner or occupant of any land or building in the unincorporated areas of the county shall allow the creation on such land or in such building of a health hazard to neighbors, other citizens or members of the general public, the creation of an unsightly condition or the emission of foul or obnoxious odors as a result of the accumulation of litter or waste.
(c)
Any person who owns, uses or occupies any land or building in the unincorporated areas of the county shall be responsible for contracting with a properly licensed commercial hauler, or otherwise providing for the collection of such waste and litter, and disposal of such waste and litter at a properly permitted and licensed solid waste disposal facility, on a regular and frequent basis.
(Code 1979, § 2-12.5-8)
Sec. 70-9. - Enforcement.
Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the county sheriff or his designee, and any other official of the county designated by the board of commissioners. Any person authorized to enforce this chapter shall do so in conformance with the laws of the United States and the state, including, but not limited to, the laws relating to searches.
(Code 1979, § 2-12.5-10)
Sec. 70-10. - Civil remedies and abatement of nuisance.
If any person violates any provision of this chapter, the county attorney or other appropriate authority of the county may, in addition to criminal prosecution and other remedies, institute an action for injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful act or to correct or abate such violation.
(Code 1979, § 2-12.5-11)
Cross reference— Nuisances, § 34-31 et seq.
Sec. 70-11. - Evidence of violation.
(a)
Whenever litter or waste is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane or other means of conveyance in violation of this chapter, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of the means of conveyance has violated this chapter.
(b)
Whenever any litter or waste is dumped, deposited, dropped, thrown or left on public or private property in violation of this chapter and such litter or waste is discovered to contain any article, including, but not limited to, letters, bills, publications or other writings, which display the name of the person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the article belongs to such person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person has violated this chapter.
(Code 1979, § 2-12.5-12)
Sec. 70-12. - Recycling.
The board of commissioners finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of the county, in order to promote the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the county, to recycle as many waste materials as possible in order to reduce the accumulation of litter and waste within the county and to reduce the overall solid waste materials which must be properly disposed of; therefor, it is the policy of the county to encourage recycling whenever practicable.
(Code 1979, § 2-12.5-13)
Sec. 70-13. - Violations; penalties.
(a)
Any person who violates any portion of this chapter, and each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows:
(1)
By penalties and costs as set forth in section 1-9;
(2)
In addition, the violator may be ordered to perform community service for a specified number of hours which may, in the discretion of the court in which the conviction is obtained, consist of picking up and removing from any public property in the county all litter and waste located on such public property;
(3)
In the sound discretion of the court in which conviction of a violation of this chapter is obtained, the convicted person may be ordered to pick up and remove from any private property upon which it can be established by competent evidence that the person has deposited waste or litter, all waste and litter deposited on such private property by anyone prior to the date of execution of sentence, provided that permission of the owner of such private property is first obtained; and
(4)
The court shall order the violator of this chapter to pay all court costs for such action.
(b)
If the violation of this chapter involves the ownership, maintenance or operation of a litter or waste disposal site not permitted by this chapter or by federal or state law, rules or regulations, the property owner, user, occupant or other person responsible for the property shall cause the property to be cleaned up. The county shall not be responsible for any costs of cleanup or remediation. Use of the property for such purpose must cease until the property is brought into compliance and all necessary permits are obtained.
(Code 1979, § 2-12.5-9; Ord. No. 00-10, § 12, 10-3-2000)
