ARTICLE II. - WEAPONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Types of weapons which pawnbrokers are not allowed to receive or sell or have in their possession, §§ 15-8, 15-9, 15-10; pistol, rifle prohibited on boat, § 14-11.2.

Sec. 14-63. - Sale of pistols, cartridges—Record, inspection.
All persons doing business in the city or its police district who sell or dispense pistol or pistol cartridges shall at all times keep in their places of business complete lists and descriptions of all pistols and pistol cartridges kept, sold or delivered by them, and the names and addresses of persons to whom sold or delivered, which lists shall be open to inspection at all times by members of the police department of the city.
(Ord. of 5-10-49, § 1)
Sec. 14-64. - Same—Notice; investigation; approval; waiting period.
No person doing business in the city or its police district shall sell or deliver any pistol or pistol cartridges until all of the following regulations have been complied with strictly:
Before selling or delivering any pistol or pistol cartridges, such dealer shall notify, in writing, the chief of police, in such notice giving the name, address and description of the prospective purchaser. The prospective purchaser shall, at the same time, furnish to the chief of police three written and signed testimonials vouching for the general good character of the prospective purchaser, and such prospective purchaser shall also submit to having his fingerprints taken by the police department of the city. The chief of police shall make full investigation, and should he, in his discretion, find that the prospective purchaser is of good moral character, and that such pistol or cartridges are desired for legal and purely defensive purposes only, he shall approve the sale; but if, on the other hand, the chief of police should find that the prospective purchaser is not of good moral character, or that the pistol or cartridges are desired for illegal purposes, or for other than purely defensive purposes, he shall disapprove the proposed sale, and when so disapproved, it shall be unlawful for any such dealer to sell or deliver such pistol or cartridges to the prospective purchaser. In the absence of the chief of police, his duties and discretion hereunder shall be performed and exercised by the officer of the police department in charge of such department during the absence of the chief.
No pistol or pistol cartridges shall be sold or delivered by any such dealer until the period of five days shall have elapsed after the service on the chief of police of the notice of the proposed sale.
(Ord. of 5-10-49, § 2)
Sec. 14-64.1. - Control of sale of handguns; certificate required; handgun purchaser identification card for multiple purchases; exceptions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to sell or otherwise convey any handgun to any individual without a certificate from the chief of police, or his designee, stating that to the best of his knowledge the applicant is free of felony convictions. If said applicant is found to be free of felony convictions, the chief of police, or his designee must by law furnish applicant with such certificate at the end of three days from the date application is made. Under no circumstances is the chief of police, or his designee, to deny such certificate to any person at any time other than for reason of prior felony conviction.
For those applicants who make multiple handgun purchases during the course of the year, a handgun purchasers identification card shall be made available. This card shall exempt holder from the necessity of obtaining a certificate for each handgun purchased. Said card shall be available from the city license section upon receipt of a certificate from the chief of police, or his designee, stating that to the best of his knowledge the applicant is free of felony convictions. The card shall contain a physical description and picture of the holder and expense of issuance shall be borne by an issuance fee of $3.00. The card shall be valid for a period of three years from date of issuance. In the event any holder of a valid handgun purchasers identification is convicted of a felony, such identification shall immediately be revoked by the chief of police.
(b)
Dealers selling handguns may submit application to the chief of police or his designee on behalf of the prospective purchaser, and the chief of police or his designee may return the certificate directly to the seller submitting the application. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) above, upon payment of a $5.00 processing fee by such a seller at the time an application is submitted, the chief of police or his designee shall return the certificate directly to the seller submitting the application on the date that the application is submitted. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) above, dealers or collectors selling handguns at gun shows may, upon payment of a $5.00 processing fee, submit application to the chief of police or his designee on behalf of the prospective purchaser, and the chief of police or his designee shall return the certificate directly to the dealer or collector submitting the application on the date that the application is submitted.
(c)
Provided, however, that the terms of this section shall not apply to dealers holding federal firearms license when purchasing handguns. Provided further, that the terms of this section shall not apply to the disposition of gun collections by executors or administrators of estates.
(Ord. No. 75-14, § 1, 2-25-75; Ord. No. 75-23, § 1, 3-25-75; Ord. No. 75-31, § 1, 4-15-75; Ord. No. 78-44, § 1, 5-2-78; Ord. No. 88-121, §§ 1, 2, 12-13-88)
Sec. 14-65. - Dangerous weapons; prohibited.
(a)
No person shall within the city or its police district, sell, exchange or keep on hand for the purpose of sale any of the following named articles: Shotgun or rifle with barrel length of less than 18 inches, knucks, dirk, sword-cane, blackjack, Bowie-knife, spring-back knife, switch-blade knife, or any knife with a blade exceeding four inches in length; but it is not the intention hereof to prohibit case knives, butcher knives or other knives customarily used for domestic or industrial purposes only.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to wear or carry any pistol, dirk-knife, bowie-knife, switch-blade knife, ice pick, sling shot, sand club, metal knuckles, metal cake cutter, metal comb, razor, or any other dangerous or deadly weapons of any kind whatsoever, including but not limited to jewelry, belts or other wearing apparel fashioned in such a manner so as to allow the use of the same as a weapon rather than as wearing apparel. The provisions hereof shall not apply to the transportation of such items to one's home when purchased for the use in such home and contained within the package in which the same was contained on purchase, nor shall the provisions hereof apply to hunters, fishermen, sportsmen, campers or workmen while such items are being transported for recreational or occupational purposes.
(Ord. of 4-27-43, § 3; Ord. No. 71-253, § 1, 9-28-71)
Sec. 14-66. - Exclusion from chapter.
The preceding sections of this chapter are not applicable to pawnbrokers and pawnbrokers' sales stores, they being regulated by provisions of this Code specifically relating to them; but this chapter is applicable to all other persons, and the words "persons" or "person," as used herein, shall in addition to them, include their managers, agents, clerks and employees.
(Ord. of 4-27-43, § 2)
Sec. 14-67. - Toy pistols, cartridges, etc.; forbidden.
It shall be unlawful, within the corporate limits or the police district of the city, to sell, use or possess any toy pistol, toy gun, or other instrumentality designed for blank metallic cartridges, or to sell, use or possess any kind of blank metallic cartridges adaptable to use with toy pistols, toy guns, or other such instrumentalities.
(Ord. of 6-7-27, § 1)
Sec. 14-68. - Firing guns, pistols in city prohibited; exceptions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to fire any gun or pistol within the city; provided, this section shall not apply to gun clubs, military companies upon such part of the city as may be set apart and designated for the use of such gun clubs or military company, or to law enforcement officers in the discharge of their duties.
(b)
The provisions of this section of the Code of Ordinances of Columbus, Georgia shall not apply where written permission for the discharge of such firearm has been given to and is in the possession of the person discharging same by the owner of the property on which said firearm is discharged or when the owner is present and has granted oral permission to the individual discharging said firearm, and, in either event, where the firing is so controlled that no bullet, projectile, or any matter so discharged shall cross the property line of the person granting such permission; and provided, further, that no shotgun shall be fired within 500 feet, and no shotgun discharging a slug, and no other firearm of any kind shall be fired within 1,000 feet of the property line of any property on which a private residence or any other building occupied by a person or persons is located, other than a residence or other occupied building which is located on the property on which the firearm is discharged; and provided, further, that no shotgun discharging a slug and no rifle of any kind may be discharged on any property in Columbus, Georgia not in an A-1 zone; and provided, further, that the provisions of this section shall not apply where a shooting gallery is completely contained within a closed building.
(Code 1914, § 794; Ord. No. 71-99, § 2, 4-27-71; Ord. No. 81-28, 3-24-81; Ord. No. 85-133, § 1, 12-3-85)
Sec. 14-68.1. - Discharging air guns, crossbows, etc.; permission required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any air gun or air pistol, or any longbow, crossbow, or any other type of bow designed to discharge arrows, in any of the streets or sidewalks of Columbus, Georgia or in any of the lots thereof unless permission for the discharge of such devices has been given to the person discharging same by the owner of the property on which said devices are discharged, and unless the discharging of same is so controlled that no pellet, shot, arrow, or any matter so discharged shall cross the property line of the person granting such permission.
(Ord. No. 62-124, §§ 1, 2, 11-26-62; Ord. No. 85-133, § 2, 12-3-85)
Sec. 14-69. - Penalty.
Any person violating any portion of this article shall, upon conviction in the recorder's court, be punished as provided in section 1-8 of this Code. A single act or omission contrary to the terms hereof shall constitute a punishable violation.
(Ord. of 5-10-49, § 3)
Secs. 14-70—14-80. - Reserved.
