Chapter 7A - BAZAAR MARKETS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 89-114, adopted Oct. 24, 1989, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, inclusion of the substantive provisions of the ordinance as a new Ch. 7A was at the discretion of the editor.
Cross reference— Flea markets, Ch. 11B; taxation and licenses, Ch. 19.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 7A-1. - Title.
This chapter shall be known and cited as the "Bazaar Market Ordinance of Columbus, Georgia."
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 101, 10-24-89)
Sec. 7A-2. - Purpose.
This chapter is adopted in order to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city by regulating the location, design and maintenance of bazaar markets.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 102, 10-24-89)
Sec. 7A-3. - Function.
This chapter establishes minimum standards for bazaar markets.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 103, 10-24-89)
Sec. 7A-4. - Definitions.
(a)
Generally. Unless the context of this chapter requires, the following definitions shall be used in the interpretation and administration of the chapter. Words used in the present tense include the future; the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the singular; the word "structure" shall include "arranged," "designed," "constructed," "altered," "converted," "rented," "leased," or "intended to be used"; and the word "shall" is mandatory and not optional.
(b)
Specific definitions.
Accessory structure. Any structural addition which includes awnings, cabanas, carports, Florida rooms, porches, ramadas, storage cabinets, and similar appurtenant structures.
Bazaar market. An activity consisting of rows of shops or flea market stands selling miscellaneous goods, within an enclosed building.
Bazaar market stand. That part of the enclosed building which has been partitioned, reserved or designated for the placement of bazaar market stores, booths, appurtenant structures or additions. The use of such stands shall require the occupant or owner to obtain a certificate of occupancy and a business license from the city. Such use shall be subject to all the rules and regulations effecting the collection and payment of gross receipt tax.
Building. A roofed structure erected for permanent use.
Building inspector. Shall mean the chief of the inspections and code enforcement division of the city.
Booth. A structure constructed for the purpose of displaying and selling merchandise.
Common area. Any area or space designed for joint use of tenants occupying bazaar markets.
Enforcing agency. The chief of the inspections and code enforcement division of the city charged by law with the duty to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Governing body. The Council of Columbus, Georgia.
Long-termed tenant. A vendor who occupies a designated space within a bazaar market for more than seven successive days.
Lot line. A line bounding the lot as shown on the accepted plot plan.
Market management. The person who owns or has charge, care or control of the bazaar market.
Permit. A written document issued by the inspections and code enforcement division allowing a person to locate a bazaar market or to construct, alter or extend a bazaar market under the provisions of this chapter.
Person. Any individual, firm, trust, partnership, public or private association or corporation, or other entity.
Public street. A public way which affords principal means of access to abutting properties.
Rights-of-way. The area, either public or private, over which the right of passage exists.
Short-termed tenants. A vendor who occupies a designated space within a bazaar market for no more than seven successive days.
Sewer connection. Pipes, fittings and appurtenances from the drain outlet of the bazaar market stand and the inlet of the corresponding sewer riser pipe of the sewer system serving the bazaar market.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 202, 10-24-89)
Sec. 7A-5. - Penalties.
Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction be punished as set forth in section 1-8 of this Code; and each day's failure of compliance with any such provision shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 601, 10-24-89)
Sec. 7A-6. - Conflict of provisions; effect of partial invalidity.
In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with a provision of any other ordinance or code of the municipality, the provision which establishes the higher standard shall prevail.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 602, 10-24-89)
Sec. 7A-7. - Variances.
Where, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site, strict adherence to the provisions of this chapter would cause an unnecessary hardship, the planning division may authorize a variance, if such variance can be made without destroying the intent of these regulations. In granting variances, the planning division may impose such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objective of the standards of requirements so varied.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 604, 10-24-89)
Secs. 7A-8—7A-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PERMIT PROCEDURES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Buildings, Ch. 8; fire protection, ch. 11; zoning, ch. 22.

Sec. 7A-21. - Permits required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to locate a bazaar market or to construct, alter or extend any bazaar market within the limits of the city unless he holds a valid permit issued by the inspections and code enforcement division. Construction must begin within 180 days after issuance of the permit.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 301, 10-24-89)
Sec. 7A-22. - Applications.
All applications for permits for bazaar markets shall be submitted to the inspections and code enforcement division after submission and approval of the final site plan by the planning division.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 302, 10-24-89)
Sec. 7A-23. - Bazaar market site plan layout.
(a)
A bazaar market site plan layout shall be drawn at a scale no smaller than 100 feet to one inch and shall show the following information:
(1)
Five black or blue line prints of the final site plan or before the first working day of the month shall be submitted to the planning division and shall contain the following information:
a.
Name and address of applicant; if the applicant is a partnership, the names and addresses of the partners; if the applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses of the officers and directors.
b.
Name and address of owner of land.
c.
Location (vicinity map) and legal description of the bazaar market.
d.
Scale of one inch equals 100 feet.
e.
North arrow.
f.
The area and dimensions of the tract of land.
g.
The number, location and size of all bazaar market stands.
h.
The location, width and area of roadways, parkways, streets, driveways and walks.
i.
The location of service buildings and any other proposed structures.
j.
Location and design of parking spaces.
k.
Gross density.
(2)
Review and comment of the bazaar market site plan layout shall be noted in a report of the planning division and on all five prints as submitted.
(3)
Approval of the final site plan shall be noted on all five prints and attested to by the signature of the chief of the planning division. Three prints shall be returned to the applicant, and two prints retained in the files of the planning division.
(b)
Before acting on the bazaar market site plan layout, the planning division may request a report from any person or agency directly concerned with the proposed development, such as the district highway engineer, and public utilities. Such reports shall certify compliance with or note deviations from the requirement of this chapter, and include comments on other factors which bear upon the public interest. The responsibility of securing the reports is that of the planning division staff.
(c)
Any time after approval of the final site plan by the planning division, application may be made to the inspections and code enforcement division for a permit for the construction of the bazaar market. Five complete sets of construction plans shall be submitted to the inspections and code enforcement division with one set to be returned to the planning division upon issuance of a permit containing the following:
(1)
The approved final site plan.
(2)
Plans and specifications of all buildings to be constructed, altered or extended within the bazaar market.
(3)
The location and details of lighting and electrical systems.
(d)
Upon review of the application, and subject to evidence that the bazaar market meets the minimum requirements of the Georgia Department of Health by the department of public health of the city inspections and code enforcement division shall issue a permit when a review of the application and inspection of the site demonstrates that the proposed or existing bazaar market meets the requirements of this chapter.
(e)
The procedure for obtaining site plan layout approval of a bazaar market is as follows:
(1)
All plats submitted to the planning division in acceptable order on or before the first working day of the month will be reviewed and action taken no later than the fifteenth day of the same month.
(2)
All bazaar market site plan layouts submitted to the planning division in acceptable order on or before the fifteenth day of each month will be reviewed and action taken no later than the 1st working day of the following month.
Please note: When a first or fifteenth day of the month falls on a weekend or holiday, preliminary site plans may be submitted on the following work day.
a.
At least five black or blue line prints of the site plan layout prepared in accordance with the requirements of these regulations shall be submitted.
b.
Review, comment and/or approval of the site plan shall be made by the chief of the planning division, the review, comment and/or approval shall be noted on all copies of the site plan as submitted. Four prints shall be returned to the applicant and one print retained by the planning division.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 303, 10-24-89)
Cross reference— Site plan, tree protection, § 20A-8.
Sec. 7A-24. - Inspections.
(a)
The inspections and code enforcement division is hereby authorized and directed to make such inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with this chapter.
(b)
The inspections and code enforcement division shall have the power to enter at reasonable times upon any private or public property for the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions relating to enforcement of this chapter.
(c)
The inspections and code enforcement division may request inspections by and verifications of compliance from the department of public health relating to any of the rules and regulations of state and/or local health department. Representatives of the department of public health shall have the same powers of entry and inspection as provided for the inspections and code enforcement division.
(d)
The health officer's representative shall notify the inspections and code enforcement division of such violations and requirements for corrections.
(e)
All persons operating a bazaar or a flea market stand under the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the visitation, inspection and investigation of the police of the city at any time. Refusal of the dealer or persons in charge of the place of business shall be immediately closed on the order of the chief of police.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 304, 10-24-89)
Sec. 7A-25. - Revocation of permits.
Any permit for a bazaar market may be revoked when it is found to be in violation of this chapter.
(1)
Should the inspections and code enforcement division find that conditions exist which are in violation of any provision of this chapter [the inspection and code enforcement division] shall give notice to the permittee or owner that, unless such conditions or practices are corrected within 30 days, the permit will be revoked.
(2)
If, at the end of 30 days, a further inspection reveals that the conditions or practices have not been corrected, the inspections and code enforcement division shall then revoke the permit and give notice of such suspension in writing to the permittee or owner. Upon notice of revocation, the permittee or owner shall cease operation and/or construction of the bazaar market.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 305, 10-24-89)
Sec. 7A-26. - Uses specifically prohibited.
(a)
The sale of guns and knives, except for domestic knives such as kitchen cutlery, shall not be permitted on or within the premises of the bazaar market.
(b)
No truckload sales of any type will be allowed outside or within the premises of the bazaar market area.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 306, 10-24-89; Ord. No. 90-24, 3-20-90)
Sec. 7A-27. - Permitted zones.
Bazaar markets shall only be allowed in C-1 (central commercial district) and C-3 (general commercial district).
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 307, 10-24-89)
Sec. 7A-28. - Appeals.
(a)
Petition. Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection with the enforcement of any provision of this chapter relating to bazaar markets, or of any regulation adopted pursuant thereto, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the board of zoning appeals, provided that such person shall file in the office of the inspections and code enforcement division a written statement of the grounds of such request. The filing of the request for a hearing shall operate as a stay of the notice and the suspension except in the case of an order issued under section 7A-25. Upon receipt of such request, the board of zoning appeals shall set a time and place for such hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice thereof.
(b)
Hearing. At such hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be heard and to show why such notice should be modified or withdrawn.
(c)
Order of board of zoning appeals. After such hearing the board of zoning appeals shall make findings as to compliance with the provisions of this chapter and regulations issued thereunder and shall issue an order sustaining, modifying or withdrawing the notice. Upon failure to comply with any order sustaining or modifying a notice, the permit of the bazaar market affected by the order shall be revoked.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 308, 10-24-89)
Sec. 7A-29. - Emergencies.
(a)
Whenever the chief of the inspections and code enforcement division finds that an emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health including violations of any of the applicable rules and regulations of the department of public health or state department of public health, he may without notice or hearing issue an order reciting the existing of such an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as he may deem necessary to meet the emergency including the suspension of the permit or license. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, such order shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the board of zoning appeals, he shall be afforded a hearing as soon as possible.
(b)
The provisions of section 7A-28 shall be applicable to such hearing and the order issued thereafter.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 309, 10-24-89)
Secs. 7A-30—7A-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TECHNICAL STANDARDS

Sec. 7A-41. - Site improvement requirements for new buildings.
(a)
Generally. Condition of soil, ground water level, drainage and topography shall not create hazards to the property or the health or safety of the occupants. The site shall not be exposed to objectionable smoke, noise, odors or other adverse influences, and no portion subject to unpredictable and/or sudden flooding, subsidence or erosion shall be used for any purpose which would expose persons or property to hazards.
(b)
Soil and ground cover. Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of every bazaar market shall be paved, or covered with stone screenings, or other solid material, or protected with a vegetative growth that is capable of preventing soil erosion and of eliminating objectionable dust and/or mud.
(c)
Site drainage requirements. The ground surface in all parts of every bazaar market shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface water in a safe, efficient manner in order to eliminate water pockets, low areas or bogs.
(d)
Setbacks, bufferstrips and screening.
(1)
All bazaar markets shall conform to the setback requirements as established by the commercial zone at which the market is to be located.
(2)
All bazaar markets adjacent to residential uses shall be provided with screening of a well-maintained opaque fence(s) along the boundary line separating the market and adjacent zoning and uses. The screening shall be a minimum of six feet in height.
(e)
Off-street parking. Off-street parking areas shall be provided in all bazaar markets. Such areas shall be furnished at the rate of 5.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross sales area. This provision shall not be applicable to C-1 districts.
(f)
Identification. Each booth shall be numbered. Each number shall be easily identified from the nearest aisle or main entrance.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 401, 10-24-89)
Cross reference— Zoning, ch. 22.
Sec. 7A-42. - Water supply requirements.
(a)
Generally. An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be provided in each bazaar market. Where a public supply of water of satisfactory quantity, quality and pressure is available, connection shall be made thereto and its supply used exclusively. When a satisfactory public water supply is not available, a private water supply system may be developed and used as approved by the state department of public health in accordance with rules and regulations for water supply quality control.
(b)
Distribution system. The water supply system of the bazaar market shall be constructed and connected in accordance with the plumbing code of the city.
Cross reference— Water, § 13-551 et seq.
Sec. 7A-43. - Restroom and sewage disposal.
(a)
There shall be a minimum of one central restroom facility located on the premises. Within that central restroom there shall be separate facilities for men and women.
(b)
Hot and cold water shall be furnished to every lavatory and sink; cold water shall be furnished to every water closet and urinal.
(c)
Restrooms shall contain the minimum of fixtures as required by the Standard Plumbing Code.
(d)
An adequate and safe sewage system shall be provided in all bazaar markets for conveying and disposing of all sewage. Such system and connection shall be designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with the provisions of the plumbing code of the city, and the approval of the state department of public health and state water quality control board.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 403, 10-24-89)
Cross reference— Sewers, § 13-173 et seq.
Sec. 7A-44. - Electrical distribution system.
Every bazaar market shall contain an electrical wiring system consisting of wiring, fixtures, equipment and appurtenances for each bazaar market stand, which shall be installed and maintained in accordance with applicable electric codes of the city.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 404, 10-24-89)
Sec. 7A-45. - Structural requirements.
All structures to include booths shall comply with the building code of the city. All materials used shall be grade marked lumber, as specified by Standard Building Code.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 405, 10-24-89)
Cross reference— Buildings, ch. 8.
Sec. 7A-46. - Refuse handling.
The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the bazaar markets shall be so conducted as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 406, 10-24-89)
Cross reference— Solid waste collection and disposal, § 13-167 et seq.
Sec. 7A-47. - Insect and rodent control.
Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insect and rodent harborage and infestation. Extermination methods and other measures to control insects and rodents shall conform with the requirements of the health authority.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 407, 10-24-89)
Cross reference— Prevention and control of mosquitoes and rodents, § 13-112.
Sec. 7A-48. - Fire protection.
(a)
Bazaar markets shall be subject to fire prevention ordinances adopted by the Council of Columbus, Georgia.
(b)
Bazaar markets shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other flammable materials.
(c)
Portable fire extinguishers of a type approved by the fire prevention bureau shall be kept in service buildings and at all other locations designated by the fire protection bureau and shall be maintained in good operating condition.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 408, 10-24-89)
Cross reference— Fire prevention, ch. 11.
Secs. 7A-49—7A-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - REQUIREMENTS FOR OPERATION

Sec. 7A-61. - Responsibilities of bazaar market management.
(a)
The person to whom a permit for a bazaar market is issued shall operate a bazaar market in compliance with this chapter and regulations issued hereunder and shall provide adequate supervision to maintain the market, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
(b)
The bazaar market management shall notify market tenants of all applicable provisions of this chapter and inform them of their duties and responsibilities under this chapter and regulations issued hereunder.
(c)
The bazaar market management shall supervise the placement of each bazaar market booth on its stand which includes securing its stability and installing all utility connections.
(d)
The bazaar market management shall notify the department of public health immediately of any suspected communicable or contagious disease within the bazaar market.
(Ord. No. 89-114, § 501, 10-24-89)
