Chapter 15 - PAWNBROKERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Section 1 of Ord. No. 81-21, enacted March 5, 1981, repealed former Ch. 15, §§ 15-1—15-9, and enacted, in lieu thereof, a new Ch. 15 as herein set forth. Former Ch. 15 pertained to pawnbrokers and dealers in precious metals and gems and derived from Ord. No. 80-149, § 1, adopted Dec. 23, 1980, as amended by Ord. No. 81-10, § 1, enacted Feb. 3, 1981.
Cross reference— Dealers in secondhand jewelry, precious metals, etc., Ch. 10; peddlers and solicitors, Ch. 16; license fees for pawnbrokers, § 19-47(6340).

Sec. 15-1. - Applicability.
This chapter shall apply to all pawnbrokers in Columbus, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 81-21, § 1, 3-5-81)
Sec. 15-2. - Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
Employee means:
(1)
Any owner or pawn broker who, in the performance of his or her duties or the management of the business affairs of a pawnshop, comes into contact with members of the public; or
(2)
Any person working for an owner or pawnbroker; or
(3)
Any person who is employed on a part-time basis, either with or without remuneration, by a pawnshop.
Owner. Any person or partner or stockholder owning 25 percent or more of a business.
Pawn or pledge means a bailment of personal property as security for any debt or engagement, redeemable upon certain terms and with the power of sale on default.
Pawnbroker means any person engaged in whole or in part in the business of lending money on the security of pledged goods, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property on the condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property from persons or sources other than manufacturers or licensed dealers as part of or in conjunction with the business activities described in this section.
(Ord. No. 81-21, § 1, 3-5-81; Ord. No. 05-4, § 1, 1-11-05)
Sec. 15-3. - Regulatory fee.
All businesses involving pawnbrokers shall pay an annual regulatory fee of $150.00, plus an occupation tax as provided by law.
(Ord. No. 05-4, § 2, 1-11-05)
Sec. 15-4. - Revocation of licenses.
(a)
Licenses issued under this chapter may be revoked upon a conviction of the licensee or an employee of the licensee or plea of guilty or nolo contendere by the licensee or an employee of the licensee in the recorder's court or any other court of a violation of any of this chapter's provisions or upon a conviction of the licensee or an employee of the licensee or plea of guilty or nolo contendere by the licensee or an employee of the licensee in any state of any felony involving any offense or any misdemeanor involving theft-related offenses.
(b)
The following procedures shall be followed in the revocation of licenses under this chapter:
(1)
Notice shall be given to the holder of a license at least two weeks in advance that the Council of Columbus, Georgia, will hear a recommendation that the license be revoked, and this notice shall include the specific grounds on which this recommendation to council will be made.
(2)
The clerk of council shall notify the license holder, the director of finance, and the chief of police, or the director of public safety, as to the time that a recommendation for revocation will be heard.
(3)
The Council of Columbus, Georgia, shall hear a recommendation for revocation at one of its regular meetings, at which time the holder of a license and any other interested parties will be heard.
(4)
No license shall be revoked until a majority of the council so decides at the time of or subsequent to the hearing on the recommendation for revocation.
(Ord. No. 81-21, § 1, 3-5-81)
Sec. 15-5. - Character requirements.
No license shall be issued to or renewed for any person who conducts a business in which the owner or manager or any employee has, within five years of issuance or renewal, been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo contendere to any felony involving any offense or any misdemeanor involving theft-related offenses, in any state; and all licensees shall submit the identity of all owners and managers and employees to the Columbus Police Department and to the revenue collection division on a continuing basis as changes occur for the purpose of allowing a complete check in order that these character requirements be fulfilled. No license shall be issued or renewed if it is determined that a person falsified, concealed, or misrepresented any material fact by any device, trick, or scheme while making application for the initial business license or any application for renewal.
(Ord. No. 81-21, § 1, 3-5-81; Ord. No. 05-4, § 3, 1-11-05)
Sec. 15-6. - Location of businesses.
All businesses regulated by this chapter shall be conducted at an identifiable street address which shall be provided on a license or renewal application which itself shall be turned over to the Columbus Police Department, and no licensee shall change the address for any business without giving advance notice to both the revenue collection division and the Columbus Police Department.
(Ord. No. 81-21, § 1, 3-5-81)
Sec. 15-7. - Requirements upon receiving in pawn or purchasing items.
All businesses regulated by this chapter shall fulfill the following requirements when receiving in pawn or purchasing:
(a)
Require the pawner or seller to positively identify himself by driver's license, military I. D. card, alcohol beverage card, Social Security number, or any other means of identification that contains information re: Birthdate, sex, race, address, telephone number; and by any other relevant physical descriptive information, all of which will be contained on a form prescribed and provided to the business by the Columbus Police Department.
(b)
Record on the same form which describes the pawner or seller a complete description of the merchandise pawned or purchased, including kind, style, material, color, design, and all identifying names, marks and numbers, and any distinguishing marks such as initials or serial numbers, as well as the time it was obtained by the pawner or purchaser and from whom it was obtained.
(c)
For a period of seven days from the date of pawning or purchasing, post in a clearly visible or accessible place on the premises designated in the license for doing business the forms containing the above information, and hold on these premises in a place readily available for inspection by both law enforcement officials and the general public, all of these designated items in the same condition as they existed when first pawned or purchased.
(d)
Require the pawner or seller to sign the police department form on a signature line which shall be preceded by the sentence "I do solemnly swear or affirm that the information provided by me on this form is true and correct. Adjacent to the pawner's or seller's signature there shall be affixed the right thumbprint of the pawner or seller, and the pawnbroker shall use ink and pad approved by the Columbus Police Department.
(Ord. No. 81-21, § 1, 3-5-81; Ord. No. 86-127, 12-9-86)
Sec. 15-8. - Daily reports.
Every pawnbroker shall make a daily report, in such form as may be prescribed by the chief of police, of all pawnshop transactions that occurred during 24 hours ending at 9:00 p.m. on the date of the report.
(1)
Effective June 1, 2005, such daily reports shall be computer generated in a software format that is compatible with software utilized by the Columbus Police Department, or in other such form as may be permitted by the chief of police.
(2)
Daily reports shall list all property pledged, traded, pawned, exchanged, or sold, the pawn transaction number for each transaction, and a description of the property including, to the extent possible, the manufacturer, model, serial number, style, material, kind, color, design, number of stones if jewelry, and any other identifying names, marks, and numbers. The daily report shall also list the name, address, race, sex, height, weight, date of birth, and social security number or the driver's license number of the person pledging, trading, pawning, exchanging, or selling the property, along with the date and time of the transaction.
(Ord. No. 05-4, § 4, 1-11-05)
Sec. 15-9. - Receiving in pawn or buying from minors prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any business regulated by this chapter to receive in pawn, trade, or to buy from minors, goods of any character or description. A minor, for the purpose of this chapter, is an individual 17 years of age or under.
(Ord. No. 81-21, § 1, 3-5-81)
Sec. 15-10. - Penalty.
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-8 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 81-21, § 1, 3-5-81)
