ARTICLE IV. - APPLICATIONS AND EXAMINATIONS

Sec. 16B-4-1. - Announcements of examinations and position openings.
All examinations, assembled or unassembled, for positions in the merit system shall be publicized by posting announcements in the office of the personnel officer on official bulletin boards, by utilizing communications media and the state employment service, and such means as the personnel officer deems advisable, to insure that all segments of the population are informed. The announcements shall specify the title and salary range of the class for which the examination is announced; the date, time, place, manner of making application; qualification requirements for admission to the tests; and other pertinent information. Assembled examinations shall be announced at least 15 days in advance of the closing date for the receipt of applications.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 4, § 1, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-4-2. - Application forms.
Applications shall be made on forms provided by the personnel officer. Such forms shall require information covering training, experience, age and other pertinent information. All applications shall be signed by the person applying.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 4, § 2, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-4-2.1. - Criminal records background check.
Based on the requirements of the job for which they are applying, all applicants for initial employment or a new position with the consolidated government shall consent in writing to a state and/or national criminal records background check and/or shall provide fingerprints in such form and of such quality as shall be acceptable for submission to the Georgia Crime Information Center and the National Crime Information Center. The consolidated government will use this information consistent with federal law, and all appropriate notices required by such laws will be provided.
(Ord. No. 03-58, § 1, 7-15-03; Ord. No. 12-13, § 2, 3-13-12)
Sec. 16B-4-3. - Employment requirements.
All permanent positions shall be open to citizens of the United States and persons legally authorized to work in this country who meet the requirements as listed on the public announcement of the position. Such requirements may include but shall not be limited to the following factors: Experience, education, age, character, and physical condition. Applications will not be accepted for permanent full-time employment from any person less than 18 years of age, except high school graduates or equivalents and part-time student employees.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 4, § 3, 8-17-71; Ord. No. 12-13, § 3, 3-13-12)
Sec. 16B-4-4. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Former § 16B-4-4, which pertained to residence requirements for merit system employees, was repealed by Ord. No. 86-30, enacted March 25, 1986. The repealed provisions derived from Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 4, § 4, enacted Aug. 17, 1971.
Sec. 16B-4-5. - Rejection of applications.
The personnel officer may reject an application which indicates that the applicant is deficient in any or all of the requirements as specified in the public announcement of the examination. An applicant may also be rejected for the practice or attempted practice of fraud or deception in the completion of his application, or if his past record of employment is determined to be unsatisfactory by the personnel officer. Notice of rejection shall be mailed to the rejected applicant by the personnel officer, stating the reason therefor.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 4, § 5, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-4-6. - Open competitive examinations.
Positions to be filled by recruitment from outside of the merit system may be filled through examinations open to the public. Examinations may be assembled or unassembled or continuously open and/or announced for specified dates and may include, but shall not be limited to rating of training and experience, written, oral, physical or performance tests or any combination of these as determined by the personnel officer. They may take into consideration such factors as education, experience, aptitude, knowledge, skill, character, physical fitness, or any other qualifications which in the judgment of the personnel officer enter into determination of the relative fitness of applicants. The personnel officer may require applicants to submit proof of their age, citizenship and military service at the time of the examination and shall keep a record of this information. Care shall be taken that the examinations shall not be prejudicial to any applicant, regardless of race, color, creed, sex or national origin. Furthermore, the examinations and other requirements shall be limited to the qualifications needed for the particular job in question.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 4, § 6, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-4-7. - Promotional examinations.
Promotional examinations shall be open to all regular employees in the merit system who meet the necessary requirements as determined by the personnel officer.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 4, § 7, 8-17-71; Ord. No. 75-20, § 9, 3-18-75)
Sec. 16B-4-8. - Method of rating.
(a)
In all assembled examinations the minimum rating for the achievement of eligibility shall be established by the personnel officer. Such minimum rating shall apply also to the ratings of any part of the test. Candidates may be required to attain at least a minimum rating on each part of the test in order to receive a passing grade or to be rated on the remaining parts of the test.
(b)
An honorably discharged disabled veteran of the armed forces of the United States who receives a passing mark on an open competitive examination shall be granted ten points additional in determining his order or rank on the eligible list for initial appointment only. To obtain disabled veteran's preference, an applicant shall have filed proof of military service, proof of disability, and receipt of honorable discharge on or before the date of the examination. No additional or other credit shall be given in any phase of the examination process or elsewhere.
(c)
An honorably discharged veteran with no disability rating shall be granted five points additional in determining his order or rank on the eligible list for initial appointment only, and shall have filed proof of service and receipt of honorable discharge on or before the date of the examination. No additional or other credit shall be given in any phase of the examination process or elsewhere.
(d)
If the number of applicants possessing the minimum qualifications as specified in the public announcement exceeds the number required for certification purposes, each applicant shall be given a final numerical grade if he qualifies on the examination for the position. If the number of applicants with the minimum qualifications does not exceed the number needed for certification purposes, the candidates may be rated as eligible or ineligible.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 4, § 8, 8-17-71; Ord. No. 74-77, § 1, 4-16-74)
Sec. 16B-4-9. - Notification of examination results.
Each person who takes an assembled examination shall be given written notice as to whether or not he qualified on such examination, and as to his relative standing on the list or of his failure to attain a place on the list.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 4, § 9, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-4-10. - Inspection of examination results.
Each person taking an assembled examination shall be entitled to inspect his rating and examination papers, but the papers shall not be available to the general public. The personnel officer shall retain examination papers for a period of 60 days after notifying applicants of test results. Inspections shall be permitted only during regular business hours and shall be made in the office of the personnel officer. The inspection of test papers between the time of announcement and holding of another test for a similar class of positions shall not be permitted.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 4, § 10, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-4-11. - Correction of ratings.
Candidates for assembled examinations may appeal to the personnel officer for correction of their ratings upon presentation of proof that their examinations have been incorrectly rated.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 4, § 11, 8-17-71)
