ARTICLE XVIII. - PUBLIC SAFETY ADVISORY COMMISSION

Sec. 2-231. - Introduction.
A close relationship between public safety personnel and the community is an essential part of a responsive and responsible consolidated government;
The benefits of such a relationship are immeasurable for the public safety departments, citizens, the business community, visitors and government officials;
As a means of enhancing public safety-community relations, communications and community confidence, the mayor of Columbus, Georgia has proposed that a public safety advisory commission be created; and
The Columbus Council believes that the creation of a public safety advisory commission is a desirable step in ensuring valuable input from citizens and information exchange concerning the provision of public safety services in Columbus, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 04-30, § 1, 5-4-04)
Sec. 2-232. - Establishment of commission.
There is hereby established for Columbus, Georgia a citizens advisory commission to be known as the "Public Safety Advisory Commission."
(Ord. No. 04-30, § 1, 5-4-04)
Sec. 2-233. - Mission.
The mission of the public safety advisory commission is to recommend resources, public safety practices and policies, and citizens' responsibilities needed to achieve a safe community to the mayor, Columbus Council, and our public safety departments.
(Ord. No. 04-30, § 1, 5-4-04)
Sec. 2-234. - Duties.
(a)
The commission shall strive to create a climate of mutual respect and partnership between the community and public safety departments which helps achieve safety, order and justice for all citizens of Columbus.
(b)
The commission shall attempt to increase communication between public safety departments and the community, leading to a greater understanding of law enforcement operations in Columbus.
(c)
The commission shall identify public safety policy and resource issues related to law enforcement operations and methods of alternative policing.
(d)
The commission shall strive to decrease misunderstandings regarding the application of adopted public safety policies and procedures.
(e)
The commission shall provide recommendations and input related to public safety policies and procedures in an effort to reflect community values.
(f)
The commission shall assist the mayor and the Columbus Council in balancing community priorities and resources by advising it on public safety resource issues.
(g)
The commission shall strive to ensure that the policies and procedures of public safety departments protect the civil rights and liberties of everyone in Columbus.
(h)
The commission shall promote public safety operations which respect and reflect Columbus' rich culture and diversity.
(i)
The commission shall work to increase communications, understanding and trust between public safety personnel and citizens of Columbus.
(j)
The commission shall encourage problem solving and partnerships between citizens, neighborhoods and public safety departments.
(k)
The commission shall work to provide fair opportunities for citizens and criminal justice professionals to comment and participate with respect to the commission's operations and recommendations to Columbus Council.
(l)
The commission shall make and present an annual report to the mayor and Columbus Council regarding its activities.
(m)
Notwithstanding the duties outlined above, the commission shall have no power or authority to investigate, review, or otherwise participate in matters involving specific public safety personnel or specific public safety-related incidents.
(n)
Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the commission may by majority vote refer any citizen complaint to the respective department head of any public safety department covered by this article for review or investigation.
(Ord. No. 04-30, § 1, 5-4-04; Ord. No. 11-21, § 1, 5-10-11)
Sec. 2-235. - Composition.
The commission shall be composed of 11 members, ten to be appointed by the Columbus Council and one to be appointed by the mayor. Each member of the commission shall be a resident of Columbus, Georgia. Five of the initial members shall serve an initial term of one year and shall then be eligible to serve for two additional consecutive three-year terms. Six of the initial members shall be eligible to serve for two consecutive three-year terms. Other than those members serving an initial one-year term, members shall not serve more than two consecutive three-year terms. Once appointed, the commission shall elect a chairperson to preside at its meetings which shall be held on a monthly basis. The chief of police shall provide the commission with clerical or administrative assistance. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, members of the commission shall serve at the pleasure of the Columbus Council.
(Ord. No. 04-30, § 1, 5-4-04)
Sec. 2-236. - Ex officio members.
The mayor, city manager, chief of police or his designee, Muscogee County Sheriff or his designee, Chief of Columbus Fire and EMS or his designee and municipal court marshal or his designee, shall be advisors to and ex officio members of the commission, but shall not be entitled to a vote at commission meetings. For purposes of this chapter, "public safety" shall include the Columbus Police Department, Columbus Department of Fire and EMS, the Muscogee County Sheriff's Department and the municipal court marshal's office.
(Ord. No. 04-30, § 1, 5-4-04)
Secs. 2-237—2-250. - Reserved.
