ARTICLE V. - ELIGIBLE LISTS

Sec. 16B-5-1. - Statement of policy.
Vacancies in the merit system shall be filled by unassembled or assembled examination unless the personnel officer rules that the vacancies should be filled by transfer, demotion or certification from preferred reemployment lists.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 5, § 1, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-5-2. - Reemployment lists.
(a)
A permanent employee separated from the service by resignation may within a period of five years after date of separation at his request be placed on a general reemployment list for the class of positions from which he was separated provided he has successfully passed his probationary period. If the separation was by resignation, it must include a positive recommendation for reemployment from the employee's appointing authority at the time of resignation in order to make the employee eligible to be placed on the general reemployment list for the class involved.
(b)
A permanent employee who has been laid off as a result of a reduction in force or the abolition of his position shall, upon his written request, be placed on a preferred reemployment list for the class of positions which he occupied at the time of separation.
(c)
Names shall be placed on reemployment lists in order of performance ratings and length of service with the consolidated city and including prior service with the City of Columbus and/or Muscogee County, with emphasis placed on performance ratings.
(d)
The eligibility of any person on a general reemployment list shall expire one year from the date on which his name was placed on the eligible list. Eligibility of any person on preferred reemployment lists shall expire one year from the date on which he becomes entitled to reemployment rights or when his name is certified for appointment in the class of positions from which he was laid off.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 5, § 2, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-5-3. - Promotional lists.
Whenever possible, the personnel officer shall establish promotional lists from which vacancies under the merit system can be filled. Such lists shall consist of qualified eligibles from among the permanent employees of the consolidated city. These lists may be established on a service-wide or a department-wide basis as determined by the personnel officer.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 5, § 3, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-5-4. - Employment lists.
When it is impractical to establish adequate promotional lists, the personnel officer may establish employment lists consisting of persons who have successfully qualified on competitive examinations for the classes of positions involved.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 5, § 4, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-5-5. - Availability of eligibles.
It shall be the responsibility of eligibles to notify the personnel officer in writing of any change of address or other change affecting his availability for employment. When an eligible submits a written statement restricting his availability for employment, his name may be withheld from all certification which does not meet the conditions which he has specified.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 5, § 5, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-5-6. - Duration of lists.
Each eligible list shall remain in effect for a period of one year, unless a new examination is held and an eligible list established prior to the expiration of the one-year period, or the list is exhausted.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 5, § 6, 8-17-71)
Sec. 16B-5-7. - Removal of name from lists.
Names may be removed from eligible lists for any of the reasons listed below:
(a)
Refusal of three offers of appointment under conditions previously listed by the eligible as acceptable.
(b)
Appointment through certification from such lists to fill a permanent position.
(c)
Appointment through certification from the eligible list for another class at the same or higher compensation. In such case, at the request of the appointee, his name may be continued on any or all lists other than the one from which the appointment was made, for the remainder of the period of eligibility on such lists.
(d)
Filing of a statement by the eligible that he is not willing to accept appointment. Such statement of unwillingness may be restricted to a limited period of time, or to geographic locations, or positions involving other conditions of employment, as specified. The name of the eligible shall then be treated as not available and shall be passed over in certification to fill the vacancy under the conditions specified as though such name did not appear on the list. Any eligible may renew his eligibility by filing a new statement as to the time, place or other conditions under which appointment will be accepted.
(e)
Failure to respond, within the time specified in the notice, to any inquiry of the personnel officer or department head if satisfactory evidence is not furnished justifying such failure to respond.
(f)
Failure to report for work after accepting appointment.
(g)
Notice by postal authorities of their inability to locate eligible at last known address.
(h)
Death of eligible.
(i)
The discovery, upon review of eligibility, that the applicant would be subject to rejection under other provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. No. 71-213, Ch. 5, § 7, 8-17-71)
