Chapter 46 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; animals, ch. 10; buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; businesses, ch. 18; environment, ch. 30; streets, sidewalks and public places, ch. 62; traffic and vehicles, ch. 74; utilities, ch. 78; vehicles for hire, ch. 82.
State Law reference— Limitations on home rule powers of municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2); Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 46-1. - Disorderly conduct.
Any person who shall do or engage in any of the following in the unincorporated area of the city shall be guilty of disorderly conduct:
(1)
Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby any person is placed in danger of safety of his life, limb or health.
(2)
Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby public property or property of any other person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged.
(3)
Any person who shall endanger lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence or threats of bodily harm.
(4)
Any person who shall cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another or public property.
(5)
Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others and cause, provoke or engage in any fight or brawl.
(6)
Any person who shall collect in bodies or in crowds and engage in unlawful activities.
(7)
Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others and engage or attempt to engage in gaming.
(8)
Any person who shall frequent public place and obtain money for another by an illegal and fraudulent scheme, trick, artifice or device, or attempt to do so.
(9)
Any person who assembles with another or others and engages in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any place or from any person, or attempts to do so.
(10)
Any person who utters, in a public place or any place open to the public, any obscene words or epithets.
(11)
Any person who frequents any place where gaming or the illegal sale or possession of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs is practiced, allowed or tolerated.
(12)
Any person who shall use fighting words directed towards any person who becomes outraged and thus creates turmoil.
(13)
Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others and do bodily harm to another.
(14)
Any person who shall, by acts of violence, interfere with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation.
(15)
Any person who shall congregate with another or others in or on any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear such public way when ordered to do so by a peace officer or other person having authority.
(16)
Any person who damages, befouls or disturbs public property or the property of another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy, or physical offensive condition.
(Code 1987, § 17-101)
Sec. 46-2. - Discharge of firearms, air guns, etc.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Firearms includes pistols, rifles, and shotguns, whether operated by the discharge of an explosive powder, air or gas.
(b)
Act prohibited. No person shall discharge any firearm within the city except:
(1)
Law enforcement officers of the city, county, state or federal agencies who are engaged in the line of duty.
(2)
Competitors in organized shooting events held at ranges which have been registered and approved by the city pursuant to rules promulgated by the chief of police.
(3)
Licensed hunters of game birds, during state and/or federal seasons are authorized to discharge shotguns only loaded with shells which contain bird shot no larger in diameter than number six shot; provided that no such gun shall be discharged within 150 yards of a public road or a residence or from any point from which expended shot may reach or fall upon either a residence or a vehicle traveling a public road.
(c)
Special permits for shooting animal pests. The chief of police may issue a special written permit to a citizen over the age of 18 to use a firearm for the limited purpose of shooting animal pests. Any firearm and/or ammunition used under this section and the type of animal to be shot shall be first approved by the chief of police or designee. The permit shall be for a limited time not to exceed one year and for use only upon the applicant's property. The permit may be revoked with or without cause by the chief of police at any time without notice. No person holding such permit shall at any time discharge such firearm in such a way as to encroach on any street, public way, house or property or person of another. The application for such permit shall be signed by the applicant and give his correct name, age and address, the use intended and the period and place desired for such purposed use as well as the type of firearm and ammunition to be used. The applicant shall consent to a criminal background check. No person shall give false information in his written application. No permit shall be issued by the chief of police to any person that has been convicted of any felony, assault of an aggravated nature, family violence, or crimes involving the person or property of another. The application and a duplicate of the permit, if issued, shall be kept in the office of the chief of police. Any person who is refused a permit may appeal to the city manager. The fee for a one permit shall be $20.00.
(d)
Penalty. Any person found guilty of violating this section may, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1987, § 17-102; Ord. No. 2009-004, 3-9-09; Ord. No. 2010-011, 6-14-10)
Sec. 46-3. - Report of treatment of wounds.
All physicians and all hospital superintendents in the city are hereby required to report to the police department all patients treated by physicians or diagnosed or known to be suffering from wounds inflicted by a dangerous or deadly weapon of any kind. Such report may be made in writing or by telephone, giving the name of the reporting person and the patient and any other pertinent data requested by the police department. All reports shall be made within 24 hours after treatment by a physician or after admission to the hospital.
(Code 1987, § 17-103)
Sec. 46-4. - Throwing of missiles.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to throw any stone, rock, or other missile upon or at any vehicle, building, tree, or other public or private property, or upon or at any person in any public or private way or place.
(Code 1987, § 17-105)
Sec. 46-5. - Drinking in public.
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any alcoholic beverages in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way in the city, or within any public building. Notwithstanding the foregoing, consumption of alcoholic beverages shall be allowed within areas of buildings approved for a special event by the city pursuant to sections 6-27 and 6-28 of this Code and within the Commerce Civic Center and Commerce Cultural Arts Center.
(Code 1987, § 17-107; Ord. No. 2012-003, 2-13-12)
Sec. 46-6. - Obscuring or covering meter dials.
No person shall place any object of any sort or nature whatsoever upon or over the dials which reflect the consumption of gas, water and electricity on gas, water or electric meters installed by the city in such a manner as to obscure such dials or to in any way inhibit or interfere with such dials being read immediately without the necessity of removing such objects.
(Code 1987, § 17-108)
Sec. 46-7. - Unlawful assembly; failure to disperse.
It shall be unlawful for any two or more persons, after having assembled on private property of any other person within the city in the absence of, and without first having obtained the permission of the owner, tenant in possession, or person in charge of such private property to assemble thereon, to fail to disperse and cease such assembly upon being directed to do so by any police officer of the city.
(Code 1987, § 17-109)
Sec. 46-8. - Parking areas—Disorderly conduct.
(a)
Motor vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person, while on the parking area or lot, or any other part of the premises, of any shopping center or other business establishment providing parking for its patrons, to race the motor of any motor vehicle; to cause the wheels of any motor vehicle to spin; to stop any motor vehicle in such manner as to cause its tires to slide or skid on the surface of such parking area or lot, or other part of such premises; or to cause to be made any loud or unseemly noise which disturbs the peace and tranquility of the city.
(b)
Alcoholic beverages. It shall be unlawful for any person to drink beer, wine, intoxicating liquor, or any other alcoholic beverage while on the parking area or lot of any shopping center or other business establishment providing parking for its patrons.
(c)
Loitering; cruising. It shall be unlawful for a group of three or more persons to congregate and linger at any location on the parking area, or lot, or approaches thereto, or on any other part of the premises, of any shopping center or other business establishment providing parking for its patrons. No person shall cruise in a motor vehicle in, or drive a motor vehicle on, onto, or from the parking area or lot, or any other business establishment providing parking for patrons during the hours when the businesses located in such shopping center are closed, or during the hours when such other business establishment is closed, for doing business with their patrons, provided that this prohibition shall not apply to owners and employees of such businesses while going to or leaving from work, or otherwise performing duties connected with such businesses.
(d)
Leaving vehicle unoccupied. It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or cause to be parked, and leave unoccupied any motor vehicle on any parking area or lot, or any other part of the premises, of any shopping center or other business establishment providing parking for its patrons, except with the knowledge and consent of the operators of the business or businesses whose patrons are served by the area where such motor vehicle is so parked and left unoccupied, or with the knowledge and consent of the person in charge of the area where such vehicle is so parked and left unoccupied.
(Code 1987, § 17-110)
State Law reference— Parking, standing or driving vehicle in private parking areas after request not to do so, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-252.
Sec. 46-9. - Same—Warning signs.
It shall be the duty of the owner or lessee of the parking area or lot of every shopping center, and of every other business establishment providing a parking area for its patrons of sufficient size to encourage loitering or cruising in motor vehicles in such area, to post on or immediately adjacent to such parking lot or area, and in a conspicuous location, one or more signs bearing the following legend:
Customer Parking Only.
Parking for other purposes, cruising in motor vehicles, and congregating and lingering in this parking area are prohibited.
(Code 1987, § 17-111)
Sec. 46-10. - Destroying city property.
No person shall injure, destroy, deface, or attach signs to any property belonging to the city, including shade trees planted by the city and vehicles owned by the city.
(Code 1987, § 17-113)
State Law reference— Damaging, injuring or interfering with property of municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.
Sec. 46-11. - Failure to return library property.
Any person who borrows from any public library in the city any book, newspaper, magazine, manuscript, pamphlet, publication, recording, video product, microform, computer software, film or other article or equipment necessary to its display or use belonging to or in the care of such public library under any agreement to return it and thereafter fails to return such book, newspaper, magazine, manuscript, pamphlet, publication, recording, video product, microform, computer software, film, or other article or equipment necessary to its display or use shall be given written notice, mailed to his last known address or delivered in person, to return such article or equipment within 15 days after the date of such notification. Such notice shall contain a copy of this Code section. If such person shall thereafter willfully and knowingly fail to return such article or equipment within 15 days, such person shall be guilty of violation of this section and, upon conviction thereof in the municipal court, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500.00 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days and shall be required to return such article or equipment or provide reimbursement for the replacement cost of such article or equipment.
(Ord. No. 98-01, 2-9-98)
Sec. 46-12. - Use of tobacco products prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use tobacco products within any building or vehicle owned by the city. The city manager is authorized to designate areas on city property but outside of buildings wherein the use of tobacco products will be allowed.
(Ord. No. 98-05, 8-10-98)
Sec. 46-13. - Drug-free zone maps.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. 16-13-32.4 and 16-13-32.5 there is hereby established a drug-free school zone consisting of the area on or within 1,000 feet of the real property of a school board or a private or public elementary or secondary school that is used for school purposes; and there is also hereby established a drug-free residential zone consisting of the boundaries of the area on or within 1,000 feet of the real property of any publicly owned or publicly operated housing project or the real property set apart for use as a park, playground, recreation center, or any other recreation purposes.
(b)
The city clerk shall cause a map to be produced and reproduced depicting the location and boundaries of such areas for the drug-free school zone and the drug-free residential zones. The clerk shall be the custodian of the map and shall certify true copies of the map from time to time for use as evidence in the prosecution of the violation of state or local laws. The clerk shall cause a certified true copy of the maps to be posted in the Commerce City Hall and at such other locations as the clerk may deem appropriate. The original of the drug-free school zone map and the drug-free residential zone map shall be maintained on file with the city clerk as a official record of the city but may be revised from time to time by city council of the City of Commerce by resolution. The initial maps adopted pursuant to this section are dated the _______ day of December, 2003 entitled City of Commerce Drug-free School Map and City of Commerce Drug-free Residential Zone Map prepared by Northeast Georgia RDC, the originals of which are on file with the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 2003-22, 12-8-03)
Sec. 46-14. - Begging or soliciting.
(a)
Begging or soliciting deemed not unlawful. Except when perforned in the manner set forth in subsections (b)(1) and (2) of this section, it shall not be unlawful to beg or solicit.
(b)
Restrictions. It shall be unlawful for any person to beg or solicit, or exhibit oneself for the purpose of begging or soliciting by:
(1)
Accosting another; or
(2)
Forcing oneself upon the company of another.
(c)
Beg or solicit defined. For the purposes of this section, "beg or solicit" shall include, without limitation, the spoken, written or printed word or such other acts as are conducted in furtherance of the purpose of obtaining money or other things of value.
(d)
Accosting defined. "Accosting," for the purpose of this section, shall be defined as approaching or speaking to someone in such a manner as would cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon his or her person, or upon property in his or her immediate possession.
(e)
Forcing oneself upon the company of another defined. "Forcing oneself upon the company of another" shall be defined as continuing to beg or solicit in close proximity to the individual addressed after the person to whom the request is directed made a negative response, blocking the passage of the individual addressed, or otherwise engaging in conduct which could reasonably be construed as intended to compel to a person to accede to demands.
(Ord. No. 2008-12, 6-9-08)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2008-12, adopted June 9, 2008, supplied provisions to be included in this Code as § 46-13. In order to maintain the style and numbering system of this Code, at the discretion of the editor, these provisions have been redesignated as § 46-14.
Secs. 46-15—46-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADVERTISEMENTS, PAMPHLETS AND HANDBILLS

Sec. 46-31. - Distributing.
It shall be unlawful to distribute or pass out any advertisements, pamphlets or handbills on any public street, sidewalk or other city property without first obtaining a permit in compliance with the terms of section 46-32.
(Ord. No. 93-006, § 1, 4-12-93)
Sec. 46-32. - Application for permit.
Applicants for a permit to distribute advertisements and handbills in the city shall apply in writing to the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 93-006, § 2, 4-12-93)
Sec. 46-33. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2016-009, adopted September 19, 2016, repealed § 46-33 in its entirety. Former § 46-33 pertained to documents to bear address of sponsor and derived from Ord. No. 93-006, adopted April 12, 1993.
Sec. 46-34. - Scattering.
It shall be unlawful to deliver any handbills, advertising matter or newspapers to any premises in the city except by being handed to the recipient, placed on the porch, stoop or entranceway of the building or firmly affixed to a building or vehicle so as to prevent any such articles from being blown about, becoming scattered or in any way causing litter. It shall be unlawful to deliver any advertising matter, handbills or newspapers to any premises where the owner or occupant has told the distributor or the person making the deliveries that he does not desire to receive such materials.
(Ord. No. 93-006, § 4, 4-12-93)
Sec. 46-35. - Unattended documents.
It shall be unlawful to leave any handbills, advertising matter or newspapers unattended in any street, alley, public building or other public place, provided that this shall not prohibit the sale of newspapers in vending machines.
(Ord. No. 93-006, § 5, 4-12-93)
