Chapter 30 - HEALTH AND SANITATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Health authority rules and regulations for alcoholic beverages, § 6-83; animals, ch. 14; buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; flood control, ch. 26; solid waste, ch. 46.
State Law reference— Health generally, O.C.G.A. § 31-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Health officer means the county director of health or his authorized representative.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Secs. 30-2—30-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STATE RULES AND REGULATIONS

Sec. 30-31. - Adopted.
The following rules and regulations of the state department of human resources are adopted:
(1)
Chapter 290-5-26, On-Site Sewage Management Systems, April 27, 1984.
(2)
Chapter 290-5-14, Food Service, revised September 10, 1986.
(3)
Chapter 290-5-18, Tourist Courts, revised April 27, 1984.
(4)
Chapter 290-5-57, Public Swimming Pools, Spas and Recreational Water Parks.
(Ord. of 2-1-1989, § 1; Ord. No. 7-06-02, 6-6-2002; Ord. No. O-7-07-02, 1-2-2003)
Sec. 30-32. - Issuance of citation.
(a)
Upon information of a violation of any of the rules and regulations adopted in this article being made known to the county health officer or to his designee, there shall cause a citation to be issued requiring such violator to appear before the judge of the magistrate court on a day and time certain, then and there to stand trial for such violation.
(b)
Citations issued under this section shall be pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63 and shall be personally served upon the person accused of such violation. Each citation shall state the time and place at which the accused is to appear for trial.
(c)
Dade County Environmental Health Specialists are hereby authorized to issue citations for the enforcement of the provisions of this article as authorized by the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63.
(Ord. of 2-1-1989, § 1(1-4); Ord. No. 0-2-00, § 1, 8-3-2000)
Sec. 30-33. - Penalty for violation.
(a)
Any person violating the provisions of this article may be punished as provided in section 1-19. Separate offenses shall be deemed to be committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(b)
In addition to all other provisions of this article, any violation of this article is deemed to be a continuing nuisance and may be abated by an application for injunction in the superior court or other court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. of 2-1-1989, § 1(1-5))
Sec. 30-34. - Inspection fee.
A yearly inspection fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) payable to the county shall be paid in full on or before July 1st of each year. Said fee may be modified by resolution of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 0-2-00, § 2, 8-3-2000)
Secs. 30-35—30-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - HYDRAULIC FRACKING

Sec. 30-51. - Applicability.
The provisions of this article shall apply to all county-owned real property and all of the unincorporated areas of the county.
Authority: Ga. Const., Art. 9, § 2, ¶¶ I, III; O.C.G.A. §§ 12-5-30.4(f), 36-1-20; Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. 391-3-13-.16.
( Ord. No. 01-05-17 , 2-5-2017)
Sec. 30-52. - Purpose.
The board of commissioners seeks to protect the citizens of the county from the dangers associated with hydraulic fracturing for natural gas. The purpose of this article is to prohibit hydraulic fracturing for natural gas and the storage and transport of hydraulic fracturing fluid and hydraulic fracturing wastewater within the county in order to preserve and protect the public health, safety, and welfare of the county's citizens.
( Ord. No. 01-05-17 , 2-5-2017)
Sec. 30-53. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
County road shall mean a highway, road, street, avenue, toll road, toll way, drive, detour, or other way open to the public, and intended for use for its enjoyment and for the passage of vehicles in the county, including but not limited to the following public rights, structures, sidewalks, facilities, and appurtenances incidental to the construction, maintenance, and enjoyment of such rights-of-way: surface, shoulders, and sides; bridges; causeways; viaducts; overpasses; underpasses; railroad grade crossings; tunnels; signs, signals, markings or other traffic control devices; way-side parks; parking facilities; drainage ditches; canals and culverts; and scenic easements and easements of light, air, view, and access.
Flowback shall mean the hydraulic fracturing fluid that flows back through the wellbore to the surface after the hydraulic fracturing process is completed but before natural gas begins to flow to the surface.
Hydraulic fracturing or fracking shall mean the injection of fluid through a well into a rock formation at a pressure that fractures the rock through which oil and natural gas can be released and captured for further processing and use.
Hydraulic fracturing fluid or fracking fluid shall mean the fluid, including the applicable base fluid, chemical additives, and proppant, used to perform the hydraulic fracturing procedure.
Hydraulic fracturing wastewater or fracking wastewater shall include both the flowback and produced water that flow back through the wellbore to the surface after the hydraulic fracturing procedure is completed.
Natural gas shall mean any gaseous substance, either combustible or noncombustible, which is produced in a natural state from the earth and which maintains a gaseous or rarified state at standard temperature or pressure conditions, and/or gaseous components or vapors occurring in or derived from petroleum or other hydrocarbons.
Person shall include a natural person, corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, club, company, business, trust, and any other group acting as a unit, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer, or employee of such, as well as an individual.
Produced water shall mean any fracking fluid and/or naturally occurring water that flows through the wellbore to the surface along with natural gas after the fracking procedure is completed and flowback is removed.
Proppant shall mean sand or any natural or manmade material that is used in a hydraulic fracturing procedure to prop open the artificially created or enhanced fractures once the procedure is completed.
Well means any boring drilled in the search for or production of oil, gas, or other minerals or water.
( Ord. No. 01-05-17 , 2-5-2017)
Sec. 30-54. - Findings.
The board of commissioners finds that hydraulic fracking in Dade County endangers the health, safety, and welfare of residents, neighborhoods, and the environment. The storage and transport of fracking fluid and fracking wastewater likewise threaten the health, safety, and welfare of residents, neighborhoods, and the environment. Fracking operations have been linked to drinking water contamination, air pollution, and soil contamination. Spills of fracking fluid and fracking wastewater are not uncommon, whether onsite or during the transportation of these products. Fracking fluid and fracking wastewater contain chemicals of varying toxicity, some of which are known carcinogens. The discharge of these products into surface water and groundwater may endanger the health and property of surrounding and downstream water users. Other concerns associated with fracking activities include the massive quantities of water involved, impacts on local roads from increased traffic and use of heavy machinery, potential impacts on the local landscape, possible adverse impacts upon personal property rights, and noise pollution. The Georgia General Assembly has not enacted a general law that regulates fracking. Existing state laws and regulations addressing natural gas exploration and production were adopted long before the widespread use of modern fracking technology and do not adequately protect against the risks associated with fracking. Accordingly, the board adopts this article as an appropriate exercise of its police powers to protect the county's residents, neighborhoods, and natural environment.
( Ord. No. 01-05-17 , 2-5-2017)
Sec. 30-55. - Prohibited activities.
The following activities shall be prohibited on all county-owned real property and in all of the unincorporated areas of the county:
(1)
No person shall perform hydraulic fracturing of any well;
(2)
No person shall store fracking wastewater in pits, whether lined or unlined, or in above-ground containment systems;
(3)
No person shall transport fracking fluid or fracking wastewater on any county road;
(4)
No person shall apply fracking fluid or fracking wastewater, whether treated or untreated, on any county road; and
(5)
No person shall place any machinery or equipment on land for the purpose of hydraulic fracturing.
( Ord. No. 01-05-17 , 2-5-2017)
Sec. 30-56. - Penalty for violation.
Failure to comply with the provisions of this article shall constitute a violation. Any person who violates this article shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined or imprisoned, or both, as provided in section 1-19 of the Dade County Code, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day that such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing contained herein shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
( Ord. No. 01-05-17 , 2-5-2017)
