Chapter 49 - SUBDIVISIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 49-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Subdivision means any division of a tract or parcel of land into five (5) or more lots, building sites, mobile home sites, or other divisions, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or building development, and includes any multifamily residential development, re-subdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided, provided, however, that the following are not included within this definition:
(a)
The combination or recombination of previously platted lots or portions thereof where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots conform to the standards of these rules;
(b)
The division of land into parcels, all of which are three (3) acres or more where no new street is provided, the extension of public sewer and water lines is not required, and where said three-acre tracts front on existing roads approved and adopted by the county commission; and
(c)
The division of land among heirs.
(Ord. No. 11-19-09, § 1, 11-19-2009)
Sec. 49-2. - Applicability.
This article applies to any subdivision of property made after the adoption of this article.
(Ord. No. 11-19-09, § 2, 11-19-2009)
Sec. 49-3. - Plat approval required.
From and after the passage of this article, it shall be unlawful to record a plat of land subdivision in the office of the Dade County Superior Court Clerk unless the plat shall have the approval of the Dade County Code Enforcement Officer inscribed thereon. Further, it shall be unlawful to transfer, sell, offer for or agree to sell, lease, rent, begin construction or otherwise begin the physical development of a lot or lots in a subdivision unless a plat of land subdivision has been given approval by the Dade County Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. No. 11-19-09, § 3, 11-19-2009)
Sec. 49-4. - Essential services required.
In order that prospective lot purchasers may get useable products and new subdivisions may be an asset rather than a liability to the community, the sub-divider shall install or construct the improvements as required by law, including but not limited to those described below, prior to having released financial assurances which guarantee installation of required improvements. All required improvements shall be constructed in accordance with the standards set forth in applicable federal, state, and county statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations, including but not limited to the following:
(a)
Utilities. Placement of all utility lines underground is encouraged. When the lines of electrical, telephone, other communications, natural gas or other utility providers are located in a street right-of-way, the main trunk lines shall be located outside the portion of the street to be surfaced to prevent having to cut into the paved surface to serve abutting properties.
(b)
Water supply. The distribution system shall be designed and constructed to meet or exceed the federal and state minimum standards adopted for water systems, including those which may be utilized for fire protection. The location and placement of all fire hydrants shall be in accordance with federal, state, and county statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations.
(c)
Sanitary sewer. Sanitary sewers or other sewage disposal systems shall be installed according to the plans and specifications approved by the Dade County Board of Health, and all other federal, state, county, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations. When the sewer line is located in a street right-of-way and it will be necessary to cut into the street surface to serve abutting lots, a connection shall be stubbed out to the property line to serve each lot prior to surfacing the street.
(d)
Curb and gutters. Curbs or gutters where required shall be installed in accordance with plans and specifications prepared by an engineer, and approved by the county road superintendent.
(e)
Streets. Every lot in the subdivision shall front on a street constructed in accordance with the county road ordinance that is served by a public street or highway. No street shall dead-end without a permanent cul-de-sac with at least a one hundred twenty-foot diameter. No street crossing a dam shall be accepted by the county as a county road.
(f)
Utilities in streets. All water mains, sanitary sewers and laterals, utilities, and storm sewers shall be installed as necessary to prevent the future cutting of the pavement of any street, sidewalk or other required pavement.
(g)
Street pattern. All subdivisions shall provide for safe, all-weather, and convenient access and circulation by emergency and other vehicles. Georgia Department of Education policy is to locate school bus stops within one-quarter (¼) mile (1,320 feet) of every residence and that the street layout does not require buses to back up. This may be accomplished by a street layout that employs one (1) or more of the following techniques: (a) looped street patterns; (b) turnarounds designed for school buses (and fire trucks) not more than one thousand (1,000) feet apart in long streets or cul-de-sacs; (c) cul-de-sac turnarounds meeting the requirements of the road ordinance.
(h)
Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan approval. The development of land usually necessitates some degree of grading, excavating or the removal of topsoil, trees, and vegetation. Such soil disturbance shall be performed only in compliance with federal, state, and county statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(i)
Storm drainage. An adequate drainage system, including necessary swales, open ditches, pipes, culverts, storm sewers, intersectional drains, drop inlets, bridges and other necessary appurtenances shall be installed by the sub-divider according to plans and specifications in compliance with federal, state, and county statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(j)
Street name signs. Street name signs shall be installed at all intersections within a subdivision and in accordance with state and county statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(k)
Subdivision entrances. The entrances, driveways, or curb cuts on all state and county roads shall comply with all federal, state, and county statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. No. 11-19-09, § 4, 11-19-2009)
Sec. 49-5. - Plat review and approval procedure.
The prospective sub-divider is strongly encouraged to meet early and informally with the code enforcement official to obtain advice and assistance before conducting any land disturbance or preparing the preliminary plat. This will enable the sub-divider to become familiar with federal, state, and county standards for subdividing land and constructing improvements, detailed procedures for plat approval, and the conditions under which the county will accept new public roads and utilities.
The procedure for approval of a subdivision plat consists of two (2) separate steps. The initial step is the preparation and submission to the code enforcement officer, prior to making any street improvements or installations of utilities, of a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision prepared by a Georgia registered surveyor in a form acceptable to the county.
The second step is submission of a final plat, together with the required certificates, as the preliminary plat or portions of it are constructed or included in the letter of credit. The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as approved, and shall be in a form acceptable to the code enforcement officer. This final plat, upon approval, shall be recorded as the official plat of record in the office of the clerk of the superior court of Dade County within ten (10) days of its signing by the code enforcement officer.
Preliminary plat requirements. The preliminary plat for all subdivisions shall meet the minimum standards of design and the general requirements set forth in the State of Georgia Department of Human Resources Regulations for Subdivision and Mobile Home Parks and the Department's Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems, as may be amended by the State of Georgia from time to time. Additionally, the Preliminary Plat shall include a plat of the subdivision drawn at a scale of not more than one (1) inch equals one hundred (100) feet, and showing the following:
(a)
Street plan, including the location of all existing and proposed streets within the subdivision and adjacent to it; widths and purpose of existing and proposed rights-of-way and easements; identification of right-of-way location and width for any street which is considered part of the sketch thoroughfare plan; proposed street names subject to approval; and typical cross section of proposed streets, showing natural and finished grades;
(b)
Feasible connections to existing or proposed utility systems and any proposed improvements requested of the county;
(c)
Plans of all proposed utility layouts and easement, including but not limited to a preliminary plan of sanitary sewage systems, with grade, pipe size and points of discharge; preliminary plan of the water supply system, with pipe sizes and location of hydrants; preliminary plan of the storm sewer system, with grade, pipe sizes and location of outlets; and preliminary plan of the location of all communication systems; preliminary plan for gas and electricity supply systems; and
(d)
Location and dimension of land to be dedicated or reserved for parks, open space or other public use.
Within forty-five (45) days after the submission of the preliminary plat, the code enforcement office shall review the plat with pertinent utilities, county departments, and other governmental entities, and indicate its approval, disapproval, or approval subject to any required modifications. If the plat is disapproved or is approved subject to modifications, the reasons for such disapproval of the required modifications shall be indicated in writing on two (2) copies of the plat.
One (1) copy of the preliminary plat shall be retained in the code enforcement officer's files, and one (1) copy shall be returned to the sub-divider at the time of approval or disapproval.
Final plat requirements. The final plat shall comply with all of the requirements for the preliminary plat, and any modifications thereto and in addition shall include:
(a)
Final as-built survey data on property lines, easements, streets, lots, storm sewer system, utilities, and other improvements;
(b)
Certifications evidencing ownership of the subject property, satisfactory provision of financial assurances sufficient to assure completion of all required improvements, and accuracy of the survey and plat and placement of all required monuments, health department approval, and other required information.
The applicant shall submit five (5) copies together with any street profiles or other plans which may be required by the code enforcement officer. When the plat has been approved by the county, one (1) copy shall be submitted for filing with the clerk of the superior court within ten (10) days as the official plat of record. One (1) copy containing all required certifications shall be retained by the county, and one (1) copy shall be given to the sub-divider for his records. The acceptance of the final plat does not constitute acceptance of sub-divider's streets or roads as a county road.
(Ord. No. 11-19-09, § 5, 11-19-2009)
Sec. 49-6. - Financial assurances required.
Following the approval of the preliminary plat, but prior to approval of the final plat, the sub-divider shall obtain all permits; construct and install all public improvements and lot improvements as required by federal, state, or county statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations; request approval of the subdivision plat from the codes enforcement officer; and request county acceptance of any public improvements, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances on the dedicated property and public improvements.
In lieu of the completion of required improvements prior to the final approval of a plat, the county may accept cash, a certified check, or an irrevocable letter of credit, in such an aggregate amount as is estimated by the county to be the total cost of the construction and installation of all public improvement which are the responsibility of the sub-divider. Any certified check or letter of credit shall be made payable to Dade County, with a bank satisfactory to Dade County, and shall contain conditions and terms providing for and securing to the county the satisfactory construction, installation, and dedication of the incomplete portion of the required improvements.
If the construction, repair, or replacement of any improvements or facilities for which the financial assurance is provided is not completed within one (1) month after substantial completion of any building or structures which said improvements or facilities are designed to serve, or within one (1) year after the date of recording the final plat, whichever is sooner, or if said construction, repair, or replacement is not in accordance with applicable standards, the county may proceed to construct, install or modify said improvements or facilities in accordance with the applicable specifications and requirements using the proceeds from such financial assurances to pay for such work. The financial assurance shall be released when the required improvement(s) is accepted and when the other construction, installation and dedication is completed. The form of the financial assurance is subject to approval by the county.
After the furnishing of financial assurances to the satisfaction of the county, the sub-divider may proceed with the recording of lots, sale of lots, application for building permits, and application for county acceptance of streets and rights-of-way and other lands to be dedicated to the public. Nothing in this article shall constitute a guarantee by the county that the required improvements will be performed.
(Ord. No. 11-19-09, § 6, 11-19-2009)
Sec. 49-7. - Private streets.
(a)
Dade County may approve the construction of a private street within a subdivision. A private street is a street that is not accepted by the county as part of the county road system and is privately owned and maintained. Such streets or roads shall be constructed to the same standards and shall meet all other requirements with regard to road construction as is required for acceptance of such roads as public streets or roads. In addition, the developer shall:
(1)
Provide the county with a written release of maintenance agreement, acceptable to the county manager, releasing the county from responsibility for present or future maintenance and upkeep of the roadway;
(2)
Erect a sign indicating the existence of a private street at the intersection of each public street with a private street;
(3)
Include a disclosure statement on all sales agreements, deeds and plats relating to the subdivision or its lots indicating that the street or road is a private street, that the county has no responsibility for its maintenance or upkeep, the nature of the ownership of the street and responsibility for its maintenance and upkeep, and the rights of purchasers of lots in the subdivision to enforce such provisions.
(b)
Such private streets shall be platted and deeded to a responsible association or entity, such as a homeowners' association. Dade County may require, as a condition to approval of a private street or road:
(1)
That the sub-divider provides a specific maintenance plan or financial guarantee of proper maintenance and repair;
(2)
Access easements in favor of the county and its various departments and agencies; or
(3)
Such other concessions as are deemed appropriate for the public good and the benefit of the lot owners.
(Ord. No. 11-19-09, § 7, 11-19-2009)
Sec. 49-8. - Common areas.
All common areas within the subdivision, including, but not limited to, private streets or roads, retention or detention ponds, playgrounds, clubhouses, pools and the like, shall be conveyed to a responsible association or entity, such as a homeowners' association, which has the responsibility for maintenance and upkeep of the common area. The county shall have no liability with regard to or responsibility for the maintenance or repair of such common areas.
(Ord. No. 11-19-09, § 8, 11-19-2009)
Sec. 49-9. - Access required.
A subdivision shall not be approved in a location where the existing roads providing primary access are inadequate to serve the additional traffic generated by the development. Where existing roads are inadequate to serve the additional traffic, the county shall require paved access to the subdivision from an existing paved state or county road. If the ditches on existing county roads are to be used for drainage from the subdivision, the developer shall re-grade such ditches and provide an all-weather drainage outlet. All re-grading and drainage outlets shall be approved by the board of commissioners or its authorized representatives.
(Ord. No. 11-19-09, § 9, 11-19-2009)
Sec. 49-10. - Variances; appeals of decisions of the code enforcement officer.
(a)
Variances. The code enforcement officer may authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of the article as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owning to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the article will, in an individual case, result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of the article shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Such variance may be granted in such individual case of unnecessary hardship and shall be set forth in writing by the code enforcement officer. In determining whether or not to grant a variance, the code enforcement officer shall consider, along with other relevant facts, whether there are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape or topography; whether the application of this article to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship; whether such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved; and whether relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of this article.
(b)
Appeals. Decisions made by the code enforcement officer pursuant to this article may be appealed to the Dade County Board of Commissioners. Appeals shall be submitted in writing to the county clerk within seven (7) calendar days of the decision of the code enforcement officer.
(Ord. No. 11-19-09, § 10, 11-19-2009)
Sec. 49-11. - Violation; penalties.
Any violation of the provisions of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by penalties and costs as set forth in § 1-19 of the county code of ordinances. In the event any provision of the article has been violated or is being violated, in addition to other remedies, the county may institute an injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to correct or stop such violation, and may refuse to issue any and all permitting relating to such sub-dividing of land, including building permits thereon, until such violations are corrected.
(Ord. No. 11-19-09, § 11, 11-19-2009)
Sec. 49-12. - Enforcement of other laws not limited; severability; effective date.
(a)
This article shall not limit the authority of any state, county, or other governmental agency to enforce any other applicable laws, rules, regulations, or ordinances.
(b)
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this article is declared or adjudged to be unconstitutional, or otherwise contrary to law, such adjudication shall in no manner affect any other section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase, and shall remain in full force and effect as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional was not originally a part hereof.
(c)
This article shall become effective immediately upon its adoption, and all ordinances in conflict with this article are repealed to the extent of the conflict.
(Ord. No. 11-19-09, § 12, 11-19-2009)
