ARTICLE XVIII. - O-I, OFFICE INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT

Sec. 1801. - Purpose and intent.
The Office-Institutional District is intended to establish and preserve a compatible land use arrangement relative to the needs of North Georgia College and provide suitable areas for the development of offices and professional enterprises, medical and dental facilities, and institutions. This district is also intended to apply to areas with a transitional character, where such permitted uses provide a buffer or transition between more intensive non-residential and residential districts.
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
Sec. 1802. - Permitted uses.
1.
Any use permitted within the R-1, Single-Family Residential District, as enumerated in Section 902 of these regulations and subject to the same restrictions except as indicated in Article XX.
2.
Colleges and universities.
3.
Convalescent homes, nursing homes, group homes, rehabilitation centers, sanitariums and similar institutionalized residential facilities involving professional care and treatment, provided such use is located on property fronting an arterial or collector street, that no such dwelling is located closer than one hundred (100) feet to a R-1 District boundary, and provided a copy of the approved state license or permit is filed with the Zoning Administrative Officer prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy.
4.
Day care centers, kindergartens and nursery schools, provided that no such principal building shall be located closer than one hundred (100) feet to a R-1 District boundary, that all applicable regulations of the Georgia Department of Human Resources regarding fencing and play area are met, and provided a copy of the approved state license or permit is filed with the Zoning Administrative Officer prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy.
5.
Instructional studios, such as music, dance, gymnastics, aerobics and martial arts.
6.
Lodges, clubs, fraternal institutions and other places of public assembly for membership groups, operated on a non-profit basis.
7.
Offices, medical, professional, insurance, real estate and general, but not involving retail sales of any kind.
8.
Personal care homes, homes for the elderly, boarding homes, lodging houses and dormitories, provided that no such buildings shall be located closer than one hundred (100) feet to a R-1 District boundary, provided a copy of the approved state license or permit is filed with the Zoning Administrative Officer prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy.
9.
Photographic studios, but not involving the retail sale of film or photographic equipment.
10.
Schools, non-profit or operated for profit.
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
