ARTICLE IV. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS: PROVISION FOR OFFICIAL ZONING MAP

Sec. 401. - Use districts.
For the purpose of this Ordinance, the City of Dahlonega is hereby divided into use districts as set out below:
R-1, Single Family Residential District
R-2, Multiple-Family Residential District
R-3, Multiple-Family Residential District
MHP, Mobile Home Park District
PUD, Planned Unit Development District
B-1, Neighborhood Business District
B-2, Highway Business District
B-3, Historical Business District
CBD, Central Business District
O-I, Office-Institutional District
I, Industrial District
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
Sec. 402. - Official zoning map.
The location and boundaries of the above listed districts are hereby established as shown on a map entitled Official Zoning Map of the City of Dahlonega, Georgia. Said map, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this Ordinance.
The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor, attested by the City Clerk, and bear the seal of the City or that of a Notary Public under the following words: "This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in Article IV of the Zoning Ordinance, City of Dahlonega, Georgia", together with the date of the adoption of the Ordinance.
If in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance and the applicable laws of the State of Georgia, changes are made in boundaries or other matter portrayed on the Official Zoning Map, such changes shall be entered on the Official Zoning Map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the City Council, with appropriate entry or indication of such amendment on the Official Zoning Map. No amendment to this Ordinance which involves matter portrayed on the Official Zoning Map shall become effective until after such change and entry has been made on said map.
No changes of any nature shall be made in the Official Zoning Map or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this Ordinance. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person or persons shall be considered a violation of this Ordinance.
Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official Zoning Map which may from time to time be made or published, the Official Zoning Map shall be located in the Office of the Mayor, City of Dahlonega and shall be the final authority as to the current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings, and other structures in the City.
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
Sec. 403. - Replacement of official zoning map.
In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and additions, the City Council may adopt a new Official Zoning Map which shall supersede the prior Official Zoning Map. The new Official Zoning Map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions in the prior Official Zoning Map, but no such correction shall have the effect of amending the original Official Zoning Map or any subsequent amendment thereof. The new Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor, attested by the City Clerk, and bear the seal of the City or a Notary public under the following words: "This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes and replaces the Official Zoning Map adopted (date of adoption of map being replaced) as part of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Dahlonega, Georgia."
Unless the prior Official Zoning Map has been lost, or has been totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof remaining, shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or amendment.
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
Sec. 404. - Interpretation of district boundaries.
1.
Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline of streets or highways, street right-of-way lines or railroad right-of-way lines or such lines extended, such centerline, street right-of-way lines, or railroad right-of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
2.
Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the corporate limit line of the city, such corporate limit line shall be construed to be such boundaries.
3.
Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following property lines or such lines extended, such property lines or such lines extended, as indicated by boundary survey, deed or legal description maintained in the official file of said zoning adoption or amendment, if available, shall be construed to be such boundaries.
4.
Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline of stream beds or river beds, such centerline shall be construed to be such boundaries.
5.
In the case where the exact location of a boundary cannot be determined by the foregoing methods, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall, upon application, determine the location of the boundary.
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
Sec. 405. - Boundary line divides a lot of single ownership.
Where a boundary line as appearing on the Official Zoning Map divides a lot in single ownership at the time of the enactment of these regulations, the requirements for the district in which the greater portion of the lot lies may be extended to the balance of the lot without recourse or amendment procedure, provided that this provision shall not apply to a double frontage lot. In the case of a double frontage lot, the restrictions of the district applying to the adjoining lots which front on the same street as the lot frontage in question shall apply.
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
Sec. 406. - Designation after street abandonment.
Where a public street, alley or other right-of-way is officially vacated or abandoned, the regulations applicable to the property to which it reverted shall apply to such vacated or abandoned public street, alley, or right-of-way.
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
