ARTICLE XII. - MHP, MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT

Sec. 1201. - Purpose and intent.
The Mobile Home Park District is intended to provide areas for mobile home pads, which are leased rather than subdivided for individual ownership, that are served by public water, sanitary sewer and recreational amenities.
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
Sec. 1202. - Permitted uses.
1.
Mobile homes within mobile home parks, but not including mobile homes on individual lots under separate ownership. Commercial uses or home occupations within individual mobile homes are not permitted.
2.
Administration buildings and customary laundry and service buildings.
3.
Community centers and recreation facilities intended to serve residents of the district.
4.
Customary accessory uses and structures clearly incidental to one or more permitted uses and structures.
5.
Public and semi-public buildings and uses.
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
Sec. 1203. - Mobile home park development regulations.
Development for mobile home parks in the MHP District shall conform to the following regulations:
1.
Site Plan Approval Required:
All mobile home park developments shall require site plan approval by the Governing Body in accordance with the procedures and requirements established in Article XXVI, Amendment, Application and Procedural Requirements.
2.
Location and Frontage:
A Mobile Home Park District development shall be located on property with a minimum frontage of 200 feet on a public street.
3.
Street Requirement:
Interior roads serving the development shall be constructed to City standards as specified in the City of Dahlonega Subdivision Regulations, and in addition shall have a minimum pavement width of thirty (30) feet. If dedicated to the public, the roads within the development shall have a minimum right-of-way width of forty (40) feet.
4.
Lot Area and Width:
A Mobile Home District development shall have a minimum area of five (5) contiguous acres and a lot width of at least 200 feet.
5.
Density:
The maximum density of a Mobile Home District development is four (4) units per acre.
6.
Recreation and Other Community Facilities:
Not less than ten (10%) percent of the total area of the development shall be devoted to recreation and other community use facilities for those mobile home parks designed for or containing twenty-five (25) or more mobile homes.
7.
Perimeter Setback Required:
No mobile home or other building or structure shall be located closer than sixty (60) feet to any mobile home park perimeter property boundary.
8.
Perimeter Screening Required:
A landscaped screen consisting of dense evergreen trees and/or shrubs and having a minimum width often (10) feet along all property lines shall be required. A minimum six (6) foot high, opaque fence or wall may be erected along the perimeter in lieu of such landscaped screen.
9.
Lighting:
All mobile home parks shall have lighting of appropriate height, spacing and intensity so that each mobile home pad's access and parking is appropriately illuminated.
10.
Utilities:
All mobile home parks shall be served by public water and public sanitary sewer systems and shall be subject to approval by the Lumpkin County Health Department.
11.
Refuse Collection:
Each mobile home park shall provide community refuse collection areas at locations convenient to each mobile home space, but in no case more than 200 feet from any mobile home space.
12.
Space Numbering:
Each mobile home space shall be provided with a sign, not less than one (1) square foot in area, which indicates the appropriate space number or address.
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
Sec. 1204. - Mobile home and mobile home space requirements.
Each mobile home shall be located on a separate pad in accordance with the following regulations:
1.
Space Size and Width:
Each mobile home space within the development shall contain a minimum space size of 8,000 square feet and a minimum space width of seventy (70) feet.
2.
Setbacks:
Each mobile home shall be setback a minimum of twenty (20) feet from the front space line or street right-of-way, fifteen (15) feet from the side space line, and twenty (20) feet from the rear space line.
3.
Foundations and Tie-Downs:
Each mobile home shall be supported by piers and foundations and shall be anchored to the ground in accordance with building code requirements, to secure the mobile home against uplift, sliding, rotation and overturning.
4.
Skirting:
The space beneath each mobile home shall be enclosed, with the exception of ventilation and access openings. The enclosing materials shall extend from the lower edge of the exterior walls of the mobile home to the ground surface level of the pad on which it is located. All such enclosures shall be permanently installed and consist of opaque, rust and rot resistant materials. All ventilation and access openings shall be covered with wire mesh screen. Such skirting shall not be required for those homes with a complete masonry perimeter foundation.
5.
Landing or Deck and Steps:
At the time of installation and set-up, each mobile home with a door threshold height of 14 inches or greater from the ground shall have attached and affixed at each such door a landing not smaller than 48 inches by 48 inches. If the floor of the deck is more than 32 inches from the ground at any point, a railing 42 inches in height with picket spacing not to exceed six inches shall also be required and installed, except for that part of the deck where steps lead to the ground. Steps shall be not less than 36 inches in width and shall be of accepted tread height and depth for residential use.
At the time of installation and set-up, each mobile home with a door threshold height of 7 inches or greater from the ground, but less than fourteen inches from the ground, shall have attached and affixed at each such door a set of steps not less than 36 inches wide. The construction of the deck and steps must be of pressure treated wood, precast concrete, masonry construction or a reasonable equivalent. Steps constructed on flexible metal stands shall not be permitted. Loose stacks of block or brick steps shall not be permitted.
6.
Age of Mobile Homes:
A.
(1)
No mobile home with a Year of Manufacture lower than, or earlier than, the sixth calendar year prior to the current calendar year shall be brought into the City of Dahlonega for use as a dwelling or other structure. No installation permit shall be issued for any mobile home until the year of manufacture has been adequately shown to be in compliance with this ordinance. The year model as shown on the title or previous tax bill shall be sufficient to create a presumption of year of manufacture.
a)
No mobile home mover, to include an owner moving an owned home, shall move an older, non-complying, mobile home into the City of Dahlonega for use as a dwelling or other structure. Any mover moving such a non-complying mobile home as prohibited by this section shall be guilty of a violation of this ordinance and shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500.00 per occurrence and to a sentence not to exceed five days in jail.
b)
No mobile home installer, to include an owner installing an owned home, shall install an older, non-complying, mobile home into the City of Dahlonega for use as a dwelling or other structure. Any installer installing such a non-complying mobile home as prohibited by this section shall be guilty of a violation of this ordinance and shall be subject to a fine not be exceed $500.00 per occurrence and to a sentence not to exceed five days in jail.
c)
It is the intent of the ordinance that the moving and the installation shall, for the purpose of determining any violation of the terms of this ordinance, be considered separate acts each punishable as provided.
(2)
Upon determination that any mobile home in the City of Dahlonega is in violation of this ordinance, each day shall be a separate violation of this ordinance and any owner, broker, lessee, renter, bailee or other person in possession shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500.00 per day.
(3)
If any owner, broker, lessee, renter, bailee or other person in possession of a mobile home willfully violates this ordinance, such person or entity shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500.00 for each day and to a sentence not to exceed one day in jail for each day.
(4)
Any mobile home whose year of manufacture is earlier than the year as provided above, but which mobile home was properly installed with an approved installation in the City of Dahlonega at the time this ordinance becomes effective and was occupied as a dwelling or other structure, and was properly returned for taxes as required by law, then such usage shall be "grandfathered" and may be continued.
a)
Such a mobile home may be moved to any new location within the City upon proper application for installation permit, and if required, moving permit.
b)
Any such mobile home not complying with the provisions of this paragraph may have the title transferred to a new owner, but may not be moved except for relocation outside City of Dahlonega.
c)
Any person violating this section of the ordinance, or attempting to violate this section, or conspiring to violate this section, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500.00 and to a sentence not to exceed thirty days in jail.
(5)
The Planning Commission, upon unanimous vote, may recommend to the City Council that a variance be granted for good cause, to include hardship, after the following conditions are met:
a)
Notice of request for variance, setting out the reasons for the request, the year of the mobile home and the location in which the home is to be located, shall be published in the official organ of the municipality for fifteen days prior to the regular meeting at which the request is to be considered.
b)
The Planning Commission shall hear the request in open meeting prior to the vote on the recommendation to the City Council.
c)
Upon recommendation, unless the public safety requires otherwise, as set out in a written finding of fact, the City shall grant the variance.
B.
(1)
The movement of site built structures built outside the City of Dahlonega and the movement of other existing structures, to include manufactured housing, into the City of Dahlonega shall be subject to the same regulations and restrictions as hereinabove provided for mobile homes.
(2)
Violation of this section of the ordinance shall be punished as provided above.
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
