ARTICLE VIII. - UTILITIES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 8-1—8-15. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BOARD OF WATER, LIGHT AND SINKING FUND COMMISSIONERS[11]

Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
Charter cross references—Construction, operation of drainage and sewerage systems, § 4-14; construction, operation and maintenance of electric light and power plant, transmission system, § 4-16; sale of public utilities restricted, § 4-17; authorization, issuance of revenue certificates for extension of utility systems, § 4-18; provisions as to waterworks, § 8-41 et seq.

Sec. 8-16. - Organization of board.[12]
(1)
Selection. At the first regular meeting in January of each year the mayor and council of the City of Dalton shall be authorized to elect a board of water commissioners, consisting of five (5) members.
(2)
Terms. Said commissioners shall be elected, one for one year, one for two (2) years, [one for three (3) years, one for four (4) years and one for five years from January 1, 1996].
(3)
Powers and duties. The powers and duties of said commissioners shall be regulated by such ordinances as the mayor and council may prescribe.
(4)
Compensation. The compensation of said commission shall be fixed by the mayor and council, each not to exceed twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per annum.
(1890-91 Ga. Laws, page 524, §§ 1—4; Ord. of 2-19-1996)
Footnotes:
--- (12) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted on February 19, 1996, entitled "the City of Dalton Board of Water, Light and Sinking Fund Commissioner's [sic] Recomposition Act," had the following purposes: "to recompose the Board of Water, Light and Sinking Fund Commissioners to a municipal commission of five (5) members to be appointed at staggered terms by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen; to stagger terms by leaving unchanged the terms of existing members and adding two new positions at initial staggered terms of four (4) years for one new position and of five (5) years for the remaining new position; to provide that appointments subsequent to expiration of terms of existing positions and new positions be for five (5) calendar years; to provide for the filling of any vacancy for the unexpired term; to provide an effective date and other enumerated purposes."
The ordinance consists primarily of temporary and transitory language that the city instructed to omit from the charter.

Sec. 8-17. - Designation of board.
The name of the board of water commissioners of said city [is changed] to the "board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners."
(1913 Ga. Laws, page 766, § 1)
Editor's note— 1913 Ga. Laws, page 766, § 1, codified as § 8-17, changed the designation of the board of water commissioners to the board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners. To that extent, the foregoing provisions are superseded. No provision was made for terms of office after expiration of the terms of those first elected.
Sec. 8-18. - Control of public utilities, generally.
The board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners of said city shall have entire control of all public utilities of the City of Dalton, and such control shall extend into the newly annexed area of said city. Said board shall have authority of extending the services of said utilities beyond the city limits of the City of Dalton when in their judgment it is to the best interest of the city to do so.
(1947 Ga. Laws, page 1201, § 1)
Sec. 8-19. - Power to control, operate public utilities.
The board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners shall have the power to control and operate any and all public utilities that the convenience and necessity of the citizens of the City of Dalton require, and have the right and power to take over and operate any such public utilities within the City of Dalton when the convenience and necessity of the citizens of the city are affected.
(1947 Ga. Laws, page 1201, § 3)
Sec. 8-20. - Scope of authority as to public utilities; powers relating thereto prescribed.
The board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners of said city shall have entire control of the public utilities of the City of Dalton, and on said date the clerk of the City of Dalton shall turn over to said board all books, accounts and papers of whatever kind affecting public utilities. Said board shall have authority to make all contracts necessary for the operation of said utilities; to buy all supplies and material needed, and to make all necessary improvements and extensions, to employ all electrical and other help necessary in the operation of said utilities; to make all rates, rules and regulations for furnishing water and lights to the inhabitants of said city and to enforce the same; and to deal in every way with said utilities as a separate and distinct part of the city government. Said board shall fix rates sufficiently high so as to bring in sufficient revenue to maintain said public utilities and to provide for needed repairs, extensions and improvements. Said board shall collect all moneys due to said utilities and shall pay all debts. No contract made by said board shall bind said city but shall be binding upon the department of public utilities, which is hereby created, of which said board shall be the head, to the extent of the revenues derived from the operation of said utilities. No moneys shall be appropriated by the mayor and council of said city to the operation and improvement of said utilities, except that the board shall receive the principal and interest on the public debt as now provided by law.
(1913 Ga. Laws, page 766, § 1)
Sec. 8-21. - Control over public utilities; rates, charges to comply with councilmanic proceedings for issuance of revenue bonds or certificates.
As provided by 1913 Ga. Laws (Act No. 137) [sections 4-17, 8-17 and 8-20], the board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners of said city shall have entire control over all public utilities owned or operated by said city, within or without its limits, with authority to make all contracts necessary to operate such utilities, to make all improvements and extensions thereto and to fix, impose and collect the rates and charges made for services and commodities supplied by such public utilities; provided however, that such rates and charges shall always be such as to comply with the provisions of any proceedings adopted by the council of said city authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds or certificates payable from the revenues of such public utilities, or any part thereof.
(1955 Ga. Laws, page 2731, § 1)
Sec. 8-22. - Right of eminent domain for sewerage purposes, for public utilities.
The City of Dalton shall have the right and power to condemn lands, rights-of-way for sewerage, easements or rights to use of streams for sewerage, or property of any kind, whether or not the same is already in use for the purpose, with the right to condemn property already used for public purposes in the City of Dalton, for any public purpose authorized under the charter of the City of Dalton, within or without the city, using the method of procedure provided under the general laws of the State of Georgia; and said City of Dalton is hereby vested with the power of eminent domain over both private property and property already used for the public purposes. It is further provided that when the board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners shall deem it necessary to the proper management and control of the public utilities of the City of Dalton that they may exercise said power of eminent domain in the name of the City of Dalton.
(1947 Ga. Laws, page 1201, § 2)
Editor's note— To the extent the foregoing section is in conflict with 1950 Ga. Laws, page 2003, § 2, codified as § 8-25, regarding the right of eminent domain for sewerage purposes, the foregoing section is superseded. See also the editor's note following, § 1-4.
Charter cross references—Right to condemn land for public purposes, § 1-3; power of eminent domain restricted as to private utilities, § 1-4.
State Law reference— Eminent domain, O.C.G.A. tit. 22.
Sec. 8-23. - Investment of sinking funds.
(1)
Authority of board. The board of waterworks commissioners of the City of Dalton [shall be authorized] to take charge of the sinking funds collected by the city from any and every source, to invest the same in such manner, and in such securities, and upon such terms as said board of waterworks commissioners may deem to be to the best interest of said city.
(2)
Duty of clerk, chief of police. As soon as any fund to be used as a sinking fund is collected by the clerk, or chief of police of said city, the same shall by them be paid over to said board of waterworks commissioners, to be invested by said board as provided in section 1 [subsection (1)] of this act [section].
(1899 Ga. Laws, page 166, §§ 1, 2)
Editor's note— 1913 Ga. Laws, page 766, § 1, codified as § 8-17, changed the name of the board of water commissioners to the "board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners"; 1937 Ga. Laws, page 1723, § 16, codified as § 1-6, abolished the office of treasurer and provided for the assumption of his duties by the city depository; 1945 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 11, omitted at the request of the city, abolished the office of marshal, and § 6 thereof, codified as § 7-12, provided for the assumption of his duties by the chief of police. To the extent discussed, the foregoing section is superseded. "Marshal" has been changed to "chief of police," and "treasurer" has been omitted.
Sec. 8-24. - Control of public sewer system.
The board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners of said city shall have entire control of the public sewer system of the City of Dalton, and such control shall extend into the newly annexed area of said city.
(1950 Ga. Laws, page 2003, § 1)
Sec. 8-25. - Right of eminent domain for sewerage purposes.
The City of Dalton shall have the right and power to condemn lands, rights-of-way for sewerage, easements or right to use streams for sewerage, on [sic] property of any kind, whether or not the same is already in use for such purpose, using the method of procedure provided under the general laws of the State of Georgia, and said City of Dalton is hereby vested with the power of eminent domain over private property for such purposes, whenever the board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners shall deem it necessary to the proper management and control of such sewer system that they exercise said power.
(1950 Ga. Laws, page 2003, § 2)
Editor's note— See the editor's note following § 1-4.
Charter cross references—Right to condemn land for public purposes, § 1-3; power of eminent domain restricted as to private utilities, § 1-4.
State Law reference— Eminent domain, O.C.G.A. tit. 22.
Sec. 8-26. - Power to operate sewer system.
The board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners shall have the power and authority to make all contracts necessary for the operation of said sewer system; to buy all supplies and materials needed, and to make all necessary improvements and extensions, to employ all clerical and other help necessary in the operation of said system; to make rates, rules and regulations for the furnishing of sewer service to residential and industrial users of said system, and to enforce the same; and the power to control and operate such system as the convenience and necessity of the citizens of the City of Dalton shall require.
(1950 Ga. Laws, page 2003, § 3)
Sec. 8-27. - Semiannual report as to operation of department of public utilities required; deposit of surplus funds.
The board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners shall report semiannually on July first and January first of each year a full statement of the transactions of the department of public utilities for the preceding six (6) months; showing all receipts and disbursements, improvements and extensions, and the financial condition of the department at the close of business on the day preceding the report; showing also the condition of the sinking fund and how invested; and estimating the probable revenue and expenditures of the department for the following six (6) months. If said department has more money on hand than is reasonably necessary for the operation of said department and for contemplated improvements, it shall pay the excess into the city treasury when the report is submitted.
(1913 Ga. Laws, page 766, § 4)
Sec. 8-28. - Additional source of electrical power.
The City of Dalton may acquire additional sources of supply of electric power within or without the City of Dalton and within or without Whitfield County, Georgia. Said additional sources of supply may include the whole of or any lesser interest in any electric generating facilities within the State of Georgia and the whole of or any lesser interest in any transmission lines running from any additional source of supply to and within the City of Dalton. Any such additional source of supply may include the whole of or any interest in a nuclear generating facility, including any or all nuclear fuel necessary for the operation thereof. The board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners may enter agreements for the sale of surplus electricity to others if and when there shall be any excess over and above the city's requirements from time to time, and may enter all contracts necessary or useful to assure efficient and economical management of any such additional source of supply, including transmission lines.
(Ord. of 12-1-1975, § 1; 1977 Ga. Laws, page 4612, § 1)
Sec. 8-29. - Communications or information services and facilities.
The City of Dalton through the board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners shall have the authority to construct, acquire, control, operate and provide as public utilities (i) communications services and facilities, and (ii) information services and facilities; of all kinds, without limitation, over or through all media, including wireline and wireless, whether such services and facilities are now known or are developed in the future, within or without the City of Dalton and within or without Whitfield County, Georgia. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the specification of any such services and facilities as public utilities is not intended to (i) confer any additional power or be in any way in derogation of the power and authority of the public service commission or any other regulatory body with respect to any such services and facilities, or (ii) subject any such services or facilities to common carrier or public utility regulation.
(Ord. No. 03-06, § 1, 3-17-2003)
Secs. 8-30—8-40. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - WATERWORKS[13]

Footnotes:
--- (13) ---
Charter cross reference—Organization, authority of board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners, § 8-16 et seq.
State Constitution reference— Supplementary municipal powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III.
State Law reference— Municipal water systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5.

Sec. 8-41. - Authority of mayor and council.
Said mayor and council shall have power and authority to control and operate waterworks in said city in such way and manner as to them may seem best, and for such purpose they may employ competent engineers and superintendents, at such times and at such salaries as may be agreed upon by said mayor and council.
(1886-87 Ga. Laws, page 546, § 1)
Sec. 8-42. - Disposition of moneys of waterworks; payment of moneys for operation.
All money collected for water rents, and any other income from said waterworks, shall be paid as collected to the clerk of the council, and by him paid into the city treasury; and the funds necessary to carry on said waterworks shall be paid out of the city treasury on orders of the mayor and council.
(1886-87 Ga. Laws, page 546, § 2)
Sec. 8-43. - Annual appropriation for water.
The annual appropriation for water shall never exceed the estimated income, except where it may become necessary, to be judged of by the mayor and council.
(1886-87 Ga. Laws, page 546, § 3)
Sec. 8-44. - Regulation of distribution, use, price of water; erection, use by hydrants.
Said mayor and council shall regulate the distribution and use of the water in all places and for all purposes, where the same may be required, and from time to time shall fix the price thereof, and the time of payment; and they shall erect such number of public hydrants in such places as they may see fit, and direct in what manner and for what purposes the same may be used, all of which they may change at their discretion.
(1886-87 Ga. Laws, page 546, § 4)
Sec. 8-45. - Authority to require advance payment for use of water, to discontinue service for nonpayment.
Said mayor and council shall have full power and authority to require the payment, in advance, for the use or rent of water furnished by them in or upon any building, place or premises, and in case prompt payment shall not be made, they may shut off the water from such building, place or premises, and shall not be compelled to supply said building, place or premises with water until such arrears, with accrued interest thereon, shall be fully paid.
(1886-87 Ga. Laws, page 546, § 5)
Sec. 8-46. - Contracts for price of using water, restricted.
Said mayor and council shall make no contracts for the price of using water for a longer period than two (2) years, and at the expiration of any term or lease the price paid for the use thereof shall be adjusted according to the regulations then established.
(1886-87 Ga. Laws, page 546, § 6)
Sec. 8-47. - Penalties for diversion of water, adulteration, injury to supply.
If any person or persons shall wilfully or maliciously divert the water, or any portion thereof, from said works, or shall corrupt or render the same impure, or shall injure or destroy any canal, aqueduct, pipe, hydrant, conduit, machinery or other property used or required for procuring or distributing water, such person or persons, their aiders and abettors, shall forfeit to the said mayor and council, to be recovered in an action of trespass, treble the amount of damages, besides cost of said suit, which shall appear on trial to have been sustained; all such acts are declared to be misdemeanors under the laws of this state, and the parties found guilty thereof may be punished as prescribed in section 4310 of the code of said state [O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3].
(1886-87 Ga. Laws, page 546, § 7)
