Chapter 38 - COURTS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; civil emergencies, ch. 34; law enforcement, ch. 66; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 74; traffic and vehicles, ch. 114.
State Law reference— Courts, O.C.G.A. tit. 15; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 38-1. - Judgments and sentences to run consecutively.
All judgments and sentences imposed and ordered by the municipal judge shall run consecutively unless otherwise specifically provided by the municipal judge.
(Code 1983, § 1-7)
Sec. 38-2. - Execution, levy and sale on forfeited appearance bonds.
(a)
The probation officers of the municipal court shall be authorized to execute all judgments related to the forfeiture of appearance bonds and entry of judgment thereon by the judge of the municipal court.
(b)
Following the entry of judgment on a bond forfeiture in the municipal court, the clerk of the municipal court shall issue an execution for the amount of judgment.
(c)
The solicitor, clerk or deputy clerk shall deliver the execution to the one or more probation officers of the municipal court for execution.
(d)
Upon receipt of the execution, the probation officer shall personally make levy upon the execution and take possession of property of the defendant in the execution sufficient to cover the judgment amount and all costs related to the sale of property.
(e)
The probation officer shall advertise the proposed sale in the legal organ of the county for four consecutive weeks prior to the sale.
(f)
Sales shall be conducted by a probation officer or the solicitor of the municipal court or other duly authorized agent thereof, on the steps of the superior court of the county in the same manner as sales on executions, executor of judgments of the superior court of the county.
(g)
The probation officer, solicitor or other authorized agent conducting the sale shall enter the amount of receipts from the sale on the face of the execution, and if there is a deficiency between the amount of judgment plus costs of the sale and the amount received for the sale, levy shall be made on additional property of the defendant in an amount equal to the deficiency. If the sale produces sums in excess of the judgment amount and costs of the sale, the excess amount shall be returned to the defendant in execution. All sums received from the sale shall be forwarded to the clerk of the municipal court and deposited into the city's general fund.
(Ord. No. 00-02, § 1, 5-15-2000)
Sec. 38-3. - Administrative fee.
In every case in municipal court involving the violation of a city ordinance or state statute in which a fine is levied in the amount of $30.00 or more, or in which incarceration or probation is ordered, there shall be charged and collected a fee in the amount of $75.00 to defray in part the administrative cost associated with the processing of such case in the municipal court. The fee described herein shall be in addition to any fine or other cost or fee levied or charged.
(Ord. No. 04-06, § 1, 12-16-2003; Ord. No. 06-01, § 1, 1-17-2006)
Sec. 38-4. - Municipal court probation system.
(a)
The judge of the municipal court is hereby authorized to establish a probation system for the municipal court for the city to provide probation supervision, counseling, collection services for all monies to be paid by a defendant according to the terms of the sentence imposed, and collection of any monies which by operation of law are to be paid by the defendant in consequence of the convictions, and other probation services for persons convicted in the municipal court and placed on probation.
(b)
Any person employed after the date of this section as a municipal probation officer shall meet the standards and qualifications set by the Georgia County and Municipal Probation Advisory Council.
(c)
The mayor and council shall appoint qualified persons to serve as the chief operations officer of the probation system and a chief probation officer. The chief operations officer and the chief probation officer may be the same person if permitted by the Georgia County and Municipal Probation Advisory Council. Both the chief operations officer and the chief probation officer shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 05-02, §§ 1—4, 1-18-2005; Ord. No. 08-10, § 1, 5-5-2008; Ord. No. 10-17, § 1, 10-4-2010)
Sec. 38-5. - Prosecuting attorney.
(a)
There is hereby created the office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court. The term "prosecuting attorney" shall be substituted for the term "city solicitor" and for the word "solicitor" wherever they may appear in this Code.
(b)
The office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court shall be a part-time position. The term and compensation for the prosecuting attorney shall be as set by contract from time to time.
(c)
The prosecuting attorney of the municipal court shall be a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia and shall be admitted to practice before the appellate courts of the State of Georgia.
(d)
In addition to the oaths prescribed by O.C.G.A., Title 45, Chapter 3, relating to official oaths, the prosecuting attorney of the municipal court shall take and subscribe to the following oath: "I swear (or affirm) that I will well, faithfully, and impartially and without fear, favor, or affection discharge my duties as prosecuting attorney of the City of Dalton, Georgia."
(e)
The mayor and council may provide for a substitute prosecuting attorney if the prosecuting attorney of the municipal court is disqualified from engaging in the prosecution of a particular case or is unable to perform the duties of said office due to illness or incapacity. At any time in which a substitute prosecuting attorney is not available or an appointment has not been made, the city attorney, or his designee, may serve as the substitute prosecuting attorney until such time as the prosecuting attorney or substitute prosecuting attorney is available or appointed. Any substitute prosecuting attorney shall meet the qualifications set forth in subsection (c) of this section.
(f)
The prosecuting attorney of the municipal court shall have the duties and the authority to represent the city as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 15-18-96.
(Ord. No. 12-04, § 1, 6-18-2012)
