ARTICLE XV. - AUTHORITIES AND COMMISSIONS
DIVISION 1. - DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

Sec. 15-1. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 15-1, derived from 1968 Ga. Laws, page 1482, § 1, was repealed by Ga. Const. art. XI, § I, ¶ IV, and pertained to the Dalton-Whitfield County Development Authority.
Sec. 15-2. - City of Dalton Building Authority.
Article VII, Section VI, Paragraph I of the Constitution [1983 Ga. Const. art. IX, § III, para. I] is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"THE CITY OF DALTON
BUILDING AUTHORITY
"A.
Creation. There is hereby created a body politic to be known as The City of Dalton Building Authority which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation and in that name, style and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be interpleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. In the event the name of said authority shall ever become the subject of change, the same may be accomplished by an act of the General Assembly.
"B.
Purpose. The said authority is created for the purpose of acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining and operating self-liquidating projects embracing buildings and facilities for use by the City of Dalton, Georgia, for its governmental, proprietary and administrative functions and for the use by such other agencies, authorities, departments and political subdivisions of the State of Georgia or the government of the United States as may contract with the authority for the use of such facilities. The City of Dalton, Georgia, is hereby granted the authority to lease or sell lands, buildings or land and buildings now owned by the City of Dalton, Georgia, to said authority by appropriate resolution of its governing body and upon such terms and conditions as such governing body shall prescribe; provided, that such sales by the City of Dalton, Georgia, to the authority shall be for cash, and provided that such leases shall not exceed fifty (50) years in duration.
"C.
Membership. The authority shall consist of five (5) members as follows: One shall be the mayor of the City of Dalton, Georgia; one shall be a member of the city council of said city to be appointed by said city council; one shall be a banker or other person having knowledge of financial matters, who is a resident of the City of Dalton, to be appointed by the mayor and council of said city; one shall be a businessman, who is a resident of the City of Dalton, to be appointed by the mayor and council of said city; and one shall be a citizen of the City of Dalton, who is a freeholder and qualified registered voter of said city, to be appointed by the mayor and council of said city. The terms of office of the members who are the mayor and city councilman shall be concurrent with their terms of office as mayor and councilman. The terms of office of the remaining members of the authority shall be four (4) years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Successors to such members and to the member who is a city councilman shall be appointed as the original members were appointed, as provided herein, and any vacancies shall be filled by the appointing authority, as provided herein, for the unexpired term. Immediately after such appointments, the members of such authority shall enter upon their duties. The authority shall elect one of its members as chairman, and one as vice-chairman, and shall also elect a secretary and treasurer, which secretary and treasurer need not necessarily be a member of the authority. Three (3) members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority. The members of the authority shall receive no compensation for their services but may be reimbursed by the authority for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence. In the event the number of the members of the authority or the qualifications of the membership of the authority or the manner in which the members of the authority shall be selected shall ever become the subject of change, the same may be accomplished by an act of the General Assembly.
"D.
Definitions. As used herein the following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
(1)
The word `authority' shall mean the City of Dalton Building Authority herein created.
(2)
The words `the City of Dalton' and `city' shall mean the corporate body created by the General Assembly of Georgia under the name and style of `The City of Dalton.'
(3)
The word `project' shall be deemed to mean and include one or a combination of two (2) or more of the following: Buildings and facilities intended for use as courthouse, jail, police station, fire station, administrative offices and other offices and related uses, and all buildings, structures, electric, gas, steam and water utilities and facilities of every kind and character deemed by the authority necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of any department, board, office, commission or agency of the City of Dalton in the performance of its governmental, proprietary and administrative functions, or of such buildings and facilities intended for use by any division, department, institution, agency or political subdivision of the State of Georgia, or the government of the United States.
(4)
The term `cost of the project' shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights and easements and franchises acquired, the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, cost of engineering, architectural and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expense, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds or [of] revenue bonds issued under the provisions herein.
(5)
The terms `revenue bonds' and `bonds' are[, as] used in this amendment, shall mean revenue bonds under the provisions of the Revenue Bond Law (1957 Ga. Laws, page 36 et seq. [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.]), amending the law formerly known as the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937 (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761 et seq., as amended) and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under said Revenue Bond Law and in addition, shall also mean obligations of the authority, the issuance of which are hereinafter specifically provided for herein.
(6)
Any project or combination of projects shall be deemed `self-liquidating' if, in the judgment of the authority[,] the revenues to be derived by the authority from rentals of said project or projects to the City of Dalton or agencies, authorities, departments and political subdivisions of the State of Georgia and of the United States will be sufficient to pay the cost of maintaining, repairing and operating the project and to pay the principal and interest of revenue bonds which may be issued for the cost of such project, projects, or combination of projects.
"E.
Powers. The authority shall have the powers:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure.
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, lease and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes.
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property or rights of easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contracts with respects [respect] to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority, the authority being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned as provided herein except from the funds provided herein, and in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned, and no property shall be acquired as provided herein upon which any lien or other incumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or incumbrance.
(4)
To appoint and select officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and fix their compensation.
(5)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and the City of Dalton and any divisions, departments, institutions, agencies, counties or political subdivisions of the State of Georgia are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and without limiting the generality of the above[,] authority is specifically granted to the said city and any division, department, institution, agency or political subdivision of the State of Georgia to enter into lease contracts and related agreements for the use of any structure, building or facility or a combination of any two (2) or more structures, buildings or facilities of the authority for a term not exceeding fifty (50) years and any division, department, institution, agency or political subdivision of the State of Georgia may obligate itself to pay an agreed sum for the use of such property and the City of Dalton may enter into lease contracts and related agreements for the use of any structure, building or facility or a combination of two (2) or more structures, buildings or facilities of the authority for a term not exceeding fifty (50) years upon a majority vote of its governing body and may obligate itself to pay an agreed sum for the use of such property so leased and also obligate itself as a part of the undertaking to pay the cost of maintaining, repairing and operating the property furnished by and leased from the authority.
(6)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, to be located on property owned by or leased by the authority, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from such proceeds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof.
(7)
To accept loans and/or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may impose.
(8)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof.
(9)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this state.
(10)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given herein.
State Law reference— Corporations, O.C.G.A. tit. 14.
"F.
Revenue bonds. The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the authority created hereby[,] shall have power and is hereby authorized at one time, or from time to time, to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds, for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund herein provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed in the Revenue Bond Law [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.] or any amendment thereto, shall be payable semiannually, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding thirty (30) years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. Such revenue bonds or obligations shall be issued pursuant to and in conformity with the Revenue Bond Law (1957 Ga. Laws, page 36 et seq. [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.]), amending the law formerly known as the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937 (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761 et seq., as amended), and all procedures pertaining to such issuance and the conditions thereof shall be the same as those contained in said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto.
"G.
Same—Form; denominations; registration; place of payment. The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form or both, as the authority may determine[,] and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to the principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
"H.
Same—Signature; seal. In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be an officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the authority and attested by the secretary and treasurer of the authority and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the chairman and secretary and treasurer of the authority. Any bond may be signed, sealed and attested on behalf of the authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of delivery and payment of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
"I.
Same—Negotiability, exemption from taxation. All revenue bonds issued under the provisions hereof shall be fully negotiable for all purposes and shall have and are hereby declared to have all of the qualifications of negotiable instruments under the laws of the state. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and the said bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
"J.
Same—Sale, price. The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority.
"K.
Same—Proceeds of bonds. The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of any deficit, which unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture shall be deemed to be of the same issue and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into such funds as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture.
"L.
Same—Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds. Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions[,] issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
"M.
Same—Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds. The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
"N.
Same—Conditions precedent to issuance; object of issuance. Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions and things which are specified or required herein [sic]. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution, providing for the issuance of revenue bonds upon the provisions hereof[,] shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of the quorum as herein provided.
"O.
Same—Credit not pledged and debt not created. Revenue bonds issued by the authority hereunder shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the City of Dalton, Georgia, nor of any municipality, county, authority, or political subdivision of the State of Georgia or instrumentality of the United States government which may contract with such authority. No contracts entered into by the authority with any such municipality, county, authority or political subdivision of the State of Georgia or instrumentality of the United States government shall create a debt of the respective municipalities, counties, authorities or political subdivisions of the State of Georgia within the meaning of Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia [1983 Ga. Const. art. IX, § V, ¶ I], but any such municipality, county, authority or political subdivision of the State of Georgia may obligate itself to pay the payments required under such contracts from monies received from taxes and from any other source without creating a debt within the meaning of Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia [1983 Ga. Const. art. IX, § V, ¶ I].
"P.
Same—Trust indenture as security. In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside of the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues and earnings to be received by the authority, including the proceeds derived from the sale from time [to time] of any surplus property of the authority, both real and personal. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insurance of the property, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies, including the proceeds derived from the sale of property of the authority, both real and personal, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other monies be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee, and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
"Q.
Same—To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid. The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who or any agency, bank or trust company which shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as are herein provided and such regulations as may be provided in such resolution or trust indenture.
"R.
Same—Sinking fund. The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued and any monies derived from the sale of any properties, both real and personal of the authority, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payments of:
(1)
The interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due,
(2)
The principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due,
(3)
The necessary charges of paying agent or agents for paying principal and interest, and
(4)
Any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided.
The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
"S.
Same—Remedies of bondholders. Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions hereof or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted hereunder such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required herein or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
"T.
Same—Refunding bonds. The authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issue of revenue bonds of the authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions hereof and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions hereof insofar as the same may be applicable.
"U.
Same—Venue and jurisdiction. Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions hereof or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the superior court of Whitfield County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions hereof shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
"V.
Same—Validation. Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Bond Law [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.]. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or the United States government or any department or agency of the United States government, if subject to be sued, which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and such municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds when validated and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds, against the authority issuing the same, and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality of the United States government, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the said The City of Dalton Building Authority.
"W.
Same—Interest of bondholders protected. While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said authority or of its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the authority. The provisions hereof shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds, and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
"X.
Monies received considered trust funds. All monies received pursuant to the authority hereof, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, income, fees, and earnings shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided for herein.
"Y.
Exemption from taxation. It is hereby declared that the authority will be performing an essential governmental function in the exercise of the power conferred upon it hereunder and that the authority shall be required to pay no taxes or assessments upon any of the property acquired by it or under its jurisdiction, control, possession or supervision or upon its activities in the operation and maintenance of the buildings erected or acquired by it or any fees, rentals or other charges for the use of such buildings or other income received by the authority.
"Z.
Immunity from tort actions. The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the State of Georgia has and the officers, agents and employees of the authority when in performance of the work of the authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of the State of Georgia. The authority may be sued in the same manner as private corporations may be sued on any contractual obligation of the authority.
"AA.
Property subject to levy and sale. The property of the authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process except such property, revenue, income or funds as may be pledged, assigned, mortgaged or conveyed to secure an obligation of the authority, and any such property, revenue, funds or income may be sold under legal process or under any power granted by the authority to enforce payment of the obligation.
"BB.
Construction. This amendment and all provisions, rights, powers and authority granted hereunder shall be effective, notwithstanding any other provision of the Constitution to the contrary, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of its purposes.
"CC.
Effective date. This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the governor.
"DD.
General Assembly. This amendment is self enacting and does not require any enabling legislation for it to become effective. However, the General Assembly may, by law, further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the authority and the exercise thereof and may enlarge and restrict the same and may, likewise, further regulate the management and conduct of the authority not inconsistent with the provisions of this amendment. The authority shall be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia, and the scope of its operation shall be limited to the territory embraced within the corporate limits of the City of Dalton, Georgia, as the same now or may hereafter exist and with the limits of the area of Whitfield County, Georgia.
(1968 Ga. Laws, page 1466, § 1)
Editor's note— The above section was continued by 1986 Ga. Laws, page 5547.
State Law reference— Negotiable instruments, O.C.G.A. § 11-3-101 et seq.; general powers of business corporations, O.C.G.A. § 14-2-302; Georgia Building Authority Act, O.C.G.A. § 50-9-1 et seq.
Sec. 15-3. - Downtown Dalton Development Authority.
Article IX, Section VIII, Paragraph II of the Constitution [1983 Ga. Const. art. IX, § VI, ¶ III] is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following paragraph:
"The General Assembly shall be authorized to create in and for the City of Dalton, the Downtown Dalton Development Authority for the purpose of the redevelopment of the downtown Dalton area. Said authority shall have the power to employ engineers and planners, to contract for the construction of buildings and other facilities, and to contract with the City of Dalton for the construction, reconstruction, altering and changing and closing of streets and alleys. The General Assembly shall be authorized to empower the authority to create special tax districts within the City of Dalton, and to levy and collect taxes within said districts based on values of the taxable real property fixed by the tax digest of the City of Dalton to defray the costs of the foregoing. The General Assembly may authorize the authority to create one or more of such districts and authorize the authority to define the boundaries of such districts. The authority shall have the power to issue bonds and/or revenue certificates, and to pledge revenues and to levy and collect taxes within said districts for the retirement of said indebtedness. No taxes shall be levied by said authority on property used for residential purposes or used for school or church purposes. The authority shall have the right and power of eminent domain for the purpose of acquiring property in the carrying out of its aims and objectives. The General Assembly shall provide for all matters relating to the composition of the members of the authority, their terms of office and related matters and the geographical limits within the City of Dalton which shall be subject to the provisions of this paragraph."
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 2119, § 1)
Editor's note— The above section was continued by 1986 Ga. Laws, page 3881.
Sec. 15-4. - Urban Area Planning Commission.
There is hereby created the Urban Area Planning Commission (hereinafter "the commission") of the City of Dalton, whose purposes, organization, membership, duties, powers, prerogatives, officers, operations and budget shall be as hereinafter provided:
(a)
The commission is charged with the responsibility of public planning for community development, that is, the improvement of the social, economic, physical and political environment and well-being of the people of the City of Dalton and persons in proximity thereof who may be affected by growth and development of the City of Dalton. In fulfilling its charge, the commission will give systematic consideration to the long-term consequences of current actions and policies. From time to time the commission shall in its discretion recommend actions, plans, programs, policies, or ordinances and resolutions to implement any such actions, policies, plans, or programs, to the mayor and council of the City of Dalton for consideration and implementation. Such recommendation or advice to the mayor and council may address any area of community life, including but not limited to housing, health, transportation facilities, schools, land use, resource conservation, historical preservation, environmental quality, the aging, public safety, streets, roads and highways, sewers and drainage, utilities, courts, fines, revenue and taxation, economic growth, recreation and manpower development.
The commission shall consider as part of its planning objectives the following:
(1)
Orderly and efficient growth of the City of Dalton;
(2)
Improved choices and equal opportunities for housing, jobs, transportation, recreation, health, education and social services for all citizens;
(3)
A policy and future plan framework for land use management, such as zoning and subdivision regulation;
(4)
Protection of existing residential neighborhoods from encroachment by inappropriate development, traffic density;
(5)
Strategically locating community facilities to provide needed services, and to control development patterns and to improve existing neighborhoods;
(6)
Preservation of historical sites, natural open spaces and environmental amenities and conservation of natural resources;
(7)
Timely, useful information to public officials and private investors for responsible development decision making;
(8)
Guidance for the programming of operating budgets and capital improvement; and
(9)
A comprehensive development planning process for coordinating planning of the facilities, programs and budgets of transportation, education, social service delivery, health care, economic and manpower development, parks and recreation systems, public safety and utilities.
(b)
The commission shall be composed of not less than twelve (12) nor more than fifteen (15) individuals with qualifications as hereinafter provided, three (3) of whom shall be duly elected members of the mayor and council of the City of Dalton (hereinafter referred to as "the council members").
(1)
The mayor and council shall by ordinance provide for the total number of members of the commission whether 12, 13, 14, or 15 from time to time.
(2)
The initial council members on the commission upon the effective date of this ordinance shall be Alderman Waymon "Shorty" Souther, Alderman Norris Little, and Alderman Tom Wright, who shall serve as members of the commission until the first meeting of the mayor and council in January, 1987.
(3)
After expiration of the terms of the initial council members on the commission, the council members to the commission shall be elected annually by an appropriate resolution of the mayor and council at the first meeting of the mayor and council in each succeeding calendar year. The mayor shall be eligible to be elected to and to serve on the commission as one of the three (3) council members if so elected by the mayor and council. The seat of any council member on the commission upon death or resignation, recall or removal from office by the mayor and council, shall be deemed vacant. A vacancy in the seat of any of the council members on the commission shall be filed [filled] by election of a successor to fill the unexpired term through passage of an appropriate resolution of the mayor and council.
(4)
There shall be no prohibition upon one, any or all of the council members being elected to succeed themselves as members of the commission from year to year.
(5)
The members of the commission who are not the council members shall be hereinafter referred to as "the citizen members." The citizen members of the commission shall be appointed by the mayor and council pursuant to passage of appropriate resolution(s). The initial citizen members of the commission shall be designated by the mayor and council to serve terms, as follows: Three (3) initial appointees designated with terms of one year; three (3) initial appointees designated with terms of two (2) years; three (3) initial appointees designated with terms of three (3) years; and if the commission shall initially consist of more than twelve (12) total members by virtue of an appropriate ordinance of the mayor and council, the remaining initial appointees shall be designated with terms of four (4) years.
(6)
The citizen members of the commission appointed to succeed initial citizen members upon the expiration of their designated terms shall be appointed for terms of four (4) years.
(7)
Upon the death, resignation or other event creating a vacancy in the seat of any citizen member of the commission, whether an initial appointee with a designated term or otherwise, the mayor and council shall fill the vacancy by appointing a qualified individual to fill the unexpired term of the vacating citizen member through passage of an appropriate resolution of the mayor and council.
(8)
For purposes of determining the time of the regular expiration of any term of office of any citizen member of the commission, a year for initial appointees shall be deemed to run from the date of initial appointment to the commission until the first regular meeting of the mayor and council in January, 1987. Thereafter, a year shall be deemed to run from the date of the first regular meeting of the mayor and council in January of any calendar year until the first regular meeting of the mayor and council in the succeeding calendar year.
(9)
No citizen member of the commission shall be reappointed by the mayor and council to succeed him-or-herself for a successive term of service on the commission except:
a.
Initial citizen members who are appointed for designated terms of two (2) years or less. An initial citizen member of the commission who is appointed for a designated term of two (2) years or less may be once reappointed by the mayor and council for a successive term of four (4) years.
b.
Citizen members who fill unexpired terms of less than two (2) years' duration may be reappointed by the mayor and council for one (1) successive term. At the end of that successive term, the citizen member may not be reappointed to succeed him-or-herself.
(10)
A citizen member of the commission must at the time of appointment by the mayor and council and at all times thereafter during the tenure of service on the commission possess the following qualifications:
a.
Maintain his or her permanent residence within the municipal limits of the City of Dalton, Georgia.
b.
Be not less than eighteen (18) years of age.
(11)
The mayor and council shall within thirty (30) days of the effective date of this section appoint as above provided the initial citizen members of the commission.
(c)
The council members of the commission shall within thirty (30) days of the appointment of the initial citizen members of the commission by the mayor and council call an organizational meeting of the commission. For each succeeding year, the council members on the commission shall call for an organizational meeting of the commission within thirty (30) days of the first regular meeting of the mayor and council held in January of that year.
(d)
The commission shall adopt bylaws and rules of order and procedure, amendable from time to time by a vote of a majority of its members, which bylaws and rules of order and procedure shall be consistent with this section and any other applicable Charter provisions of the City of Dalton, any applicable provisions of the Revised Code of the City of Dalton, and the general law of the State of Georgia, particularly as it relates to the conduct of meetings of governmental agencies and retention of public documents and records.
(e)
The commission shall have the following officers whose general duties and powers shall be as set forth:
(1)
Chairman.
a.
Duties of chairman: To call meetings of the commission upon notice to all its members and to conduct meetings of the commission in accordance with the bylaws and rules of order and procedure of the commission. To appoint an executive committee, if provided by the commission, standing committees, and task forces as well as their respective chairpersons. To have a vote on all issues. To oversee the operations of the commission during his/her term. To represent the commission before the mayor and council or any designated committee thereof in the budget process. To execute documents and contracts within the authority granted to him/her by the commission in the name of and on behalf of the commission. To make an annual report of the acts and doings of the commission to the mayor and council as well as such other reports as the mayor and council may call upon him/her to make respecting the actings and doings of the commission.
b.
Selection of chairman: The chairman of the commission shall be elected annually by the council members of the commission who are elected to serve for that annual period. Such election shall be made by the council members of the commission each year within ten (10) days of their election to the commission by the mayor and council. A majority vote of the three (3) council members of the commission shall be required for election of the chairman and such vote shall be announced and placed upon the minutes of the commission at its annual organizational meeting. The council members as well as citizen members shall be eligible to serve as chairman. A member of the commission may be elected to serve as chairman for successive annual periods. The initial chairman for the commission shall be elected by the initial council members of the commission within ten (10) days of the effective date of this section and his election announced and placed in the minutes of the commission at its first organizational meeting.
(2)
Vice chairman.
a.
Duties of vice chairman: To exercise the powers of the chairman upon the physical absence or temporary disability of the chairman, or upon written request of the chairman.
b.
Selection of vice chairman: The vice chairman of the commission shall be elected annually by the full membership of the commission at its organizational meeting. A majority vote of the members of the commission voting shall be required for election. A council member or citizen member of the commission shall be eligible to serve as vice chairman. A member of the commission may be elected to serve as vice chairman for successive annual periods.
(3)
Secretary.
a.
Duties of secretary: To record all proceedings of the commission as a committee of the whole and all proceedings of any executive committee of the commission, if the commission provides for one, and to timely transmit in writing all recommendations or advice of the commission to the mayor and council.
b.
Selection of secretary: The secretary of the commission shall be elected annually by the full membership of the commission at its organizational meeting. A majority vote of the members of the commission voting shall be required for election. A council member or citizen member of the commission shall be eligible to serve as secretary. A member of the commission may be elected to serve as secretary for successive annual periods.
(f)
The commission may employ or retain such staff and expert or consultant services and clerical assistance as required to carry on its operations in meeting its public purposes subject to its budgetary allowances as set by the mayor and council. The commission shall be authorized to make and enter contracts and agreements for consultant and expert advisory services, reviews, compilations and studies subject to its budgetary allowances as set by the mayor and council. The commission through its proper officer shall submit an annual request for budget to the mayor and council or its designated committee at the times and in the form directed by the mayor and council. For its initial period of fiscal operations beginning with the effective date of this section and until the end of the current fiscal year, the commission shall submit to the mayor and council through its proper officer a budget request within forty-five (45) days of the effective date of this section.
(g)
The city attorney shall serve as legal counsel and advisor to the commission and shall perform such legal services as the commission shall request.
(h)
The commission is authorized to recommend to the mayor and council the consideration of such actions, programs, policies or plans as the commission deems desirable and in the public interest within the realm of the public planning purposes of the commission. Such recommendations shall be transmitted in writing and published by the mayor and council at one of its regular public meetings within sixty (60) days of the date of receipt of the commission's written recommendation. Further, the commission is authorized to recommend to the mayor and council any ordinance or resolution to implement any such recommended action, program, policy or plan of the commission to the mayor and council. Such ordinance or resolution shall be transmitted in written form to the mayor and council and shall within sixty (60) days of the date of receipt by the mayor and council be placed upon the agenda of the mayor and council for consideration in a regular public meeting.
(i)
While the commission may divide itself into committees and task forces for purposes of accomplishing its work, all final actions, recommendations and proposals of the commission shall require approval of a majority of its members voting as a committee of the whole on the item or matter to be approved. Conduct of meetings of the commission as a committee of the whole and passage of measures to be approved shall be subject to the following:
(1)
All special meetings of the commission meeting as a committee of the whole shall be upon written notice of the chairman or his designee to all of the members of the commission setting forth the time, place and purpose of the special meeting. Regular meetings of the commission meeting as a committee of the whole shall not require such written notice. At the organizational meeting of the commission each year the members of the commission shall provide the chairman with an official postal address for receipt of any written notice so that posting such notice to said address shall constitute notice unless a written change of address has been subsequently given. Members of the commission appointed for unexpired terms shall upon appointment to the commission provide the chairman with an official address for purposes of written notice and posting notice to such address shall likewise constitute notice unless a written change of address has been subsequently given.
(2)
For purposes of passage or approval of any measure by the commission meeting as a committee of the whole, a quorum of the members of the commission shall be present in person.
(3)
A quorum for the transaction of any business of the commission meeting as a committee of the whole shall be a majority of the members of the commission.
(4)
No attendance or voting by proxy shall be considered.
(5)
All members of the commission shall have one vote on any matter to be voted on or acted upon by the commission.
(6)
Passage of any measure or the taking or approval of any action or recommendation by the commission shall require a vote of a simple majority of the members of the commission voting on the issue in any meeting.
(j)
No member of the commission shall be paid any salary or compensation for his or her service. However, the mayor and council shall be authorized in its discretion to set by ordinance a mileage allowance and per diem expenses for members of the commission traveling or in attendance on official business of the commission. The salary and employment benefits of any staff member(s) of the commission shall be determined by the mayor and council through the budgetary process of the mayor and council.
(k)
The commission shall be authorized to name special appointees to serve the commission in an advisory capacity with regard to specific areas of interest, studies or projects of the commission. Such special appointees shall be designated to serve the commission for a fixed period of time and the specific purpose for which appointed shall be enumerated by the commission in making the appointment. Special appointees shall have no vote but shall be authorized to participate in the meetings and work of the commission as requested by the commission through its proper officers. Special appointees shall serve the commission without salary or compensation. However, special appointees may receive such mileage allowance and per diem expenses as may be provided by the mayor and council in its discretion.
(Ord. of 4-7-1986, § 2; Ord. of 2-18-1991, art. I; Ord. of 5-6-1991, art. I)
Editor's note— An ordinance of April 7, 1986, §§ 1—5, did not specifically amend the charter; therefore, inclusion as § 15-4 was at the discretion of the editor. Certain nonsubstantive changes have been made in order to conform with the alphanumeric format of the charter and Code, and the directory provisions, including severability and repeals, have been omitted. The effective date of this section is April 7, 1986. An ordinance of February 20, 1989, provided for fifteen (15) members of the Urban Area Planning Commission, pursuant to subsection (b)(1) of § 15-4, with three (3) of said fifteen (15) members being council members.
DIVISION 2. - AIRPORT AUTHORITY[21]

Footnotes:
--- (21) ---
Editor's note— Certain nonsubstantive changes have been made in this division in order to conform with the alphanumeric format of the charter and Code, and the directory provisions, including severability and repeals, have been omitted.

Sec. 15-5. - Short title.
This Act may be cited as the "City of Dalton Airport Authority Ordinances."
(Ord. of 1-19-1987, § 1)
Sec. 15-6. - Created.
The Charter of the City of Dalton approved on February 24, 1987 (1874 Ga. Laws, page 181 et seq.), and the several acts amendatory thereof, is hereby amended by adding thereto a new provision for the City of Dalton Airport Authority to be created, established, maintained and constituted as hereinafter set forth and with the purposes, powers, duties and prerogative(s) hereinafter described. There is hereby created the City of Dalton Airport Authority (hereafter "the authority"). Its purposes shall be to oversee the day-to-day operation and general management of the existing airport and landing field of the City of Dalton for the use of aircraft and related aeronautical activities.
(Ord. of 1-19-1987, § 2; Ord. of 9-23-1996, § II)
Sec. 15-7. - Membership.
The authority shall be composed for [of] five (5) individuals with qualifications as hereinafter provided, all of whom shall be appointed by the mayor and council of the City of Dalton pursuant to passage of appropriate resolution(s). The initial members of the authority shall be designated by the mayor and council to serve terms as follows:
(1)
One initial appointee designated with a term of one year;
(2)
One initial appointee designated with a term of two (2) years;
(3)
One initial appointee designated with a term of three (3) years;
(4)
One initial appointee designated with a term of four (4) years;
(5)
One initial appointee designated with a term of five (5) years.
Individuals appointed to succeed initial members of the authority upon the expiration of their designated term shall be appointed for terms of five (5) years.
Upon the death, resignation or other event creating a vacancy in the seat of any member of the authority, whether an initial appointee with a designated term or otherwise, the mayor and council shall fill the vacancy by appointing a qualified individual to fill the unexpired term of the vacating member through passage of an appropriate resolution of the mayor and council. For purposes of determining the time of the regular expiration of any term of office of any member of the authority, the first year for an initial appointee shall be deemed to run from the date of initial appointment to the authority until the first regular meeting of the mayor and council in January, 1988. Thereafter, a year shall be deemed to run from the date of the first regular meeting of the mayor and council in January of any calendar year until the first regular meeting of the mayor and council in the succeeding calendar year.
A member of the authority must, at the time of appointment by the mayor and council and at all times thereafter, during the tenure of service on the authority possess the following qualifications:
(i)
Maintain a permanent residence within Whitfield County, Georgia; and
(ii)
Be not less than eighteen (18) years of age.
The mayor and council shall within thirty (30) days of the effective date of this division appoint the initial members of the authority.
(Ord. of 1-19-1987, § 3; Ord. No. 06-02, § 1, 2-6-2006)
Sec. 15-8. - Ex officio members.
The city administrator or his successor in office shall be a non-voting ex officio member of the authority who shall be entitled to participate in all meetings of the authority.
(Ord. of 1-19-1987, § 4)
Sec. 15-9. - Meetings.
The authority shall hold its organizational meeting within thirty (30) days of the appointment of the members of the authority by the mayor and council. The councilmember chairing the airport committee of the mayor and council shall issue a written call for this organizational meeting of the initial members of the authority. The authority shall meet at such times thereafter as may be necessary to transact the business and fulfill its public purpose but the authority shall hold an organizational meeting each year within thirty (30) days of the first meeting of the mayor and council in January. At the first organizational meeting and at its organizational meeting in each succeeding year the members of the authority shall elect one of its members as its chairman and another members [member] as secretary. The term of the chairman and secretary shall be for a period beginning with their election by the authority and expiring with the organizational meeting of the authority in the following year or upon their death, resignation or vacancy in the position of authority member for whatever reason, whichever shall earlier occur. In the event of a death, resignation or vacancy in the position of authority member of the chairman or secretary of the authority, the members of the authority shall elect one of their members to fill the vacant office for the expiration of the term of office. The chairman and secretary of the authority may be elected by the authority members for succeeding terms during their tenure.
A meeting of the authority may be held upon call of the chairman, or any two (2) members of the authority, or upon call of the city administrator as a non-voting ex officio member. A quorum for the transaction of business of the authority shall consist of three (3) voting members of the authority. Each voting member of the authority shall have one vote on all matters and issues to be decided. A vote of the majority of the members of the authority present in person and voting at any meeting of the authority shall carry on any decision to be made.
(Ord. of 1-19-1987, § 5; Ord. No. 18-06, § 3, 5-21-2018)
Sec. 15-10. - Compensation.
No member of the authority shall be paid any salary or compensation for his or her service. However, the mayor and council shall be authorized in its discretion to set by ordinance a mileage allowance and per diem expense for members of the authority traveling or in attendance on official business of the authority. The salary and employment benefits of any staff member(s) of the authority shall be determined by the mayor and council through the budgetary processes of the mayor and council.
(Ord. of 1-19-1987, § 6)
Sec. 15-11. - Staff.
The authority shall be authorized to hire, contract with and/or appoint an airport manager and such other employees as they deem necessary to carry out the business, affairs and public purposes of the authority provided compensation and any related benefits to said employees of the authority are included within the budget for the authority set by the mayor and council of the City of Dalton. Further, the authority may employ or retain such expert or consultant services as required to carry on its operations and meet its public purposes subject to the budgetary allowances as set by the mayor and council.
(Ord. of 1-19-1987, § 7)
Sec. 15-12. - Budget.
The authority through its chairman shall submit an annual request for budget to the mayor and council or its designated committee at the times and in the form directed by the mayor and council. For its initial period of fiscal operations beginning with the effective date of this division and until the end of the current fiscal year, the authority shall submit to the mayor and council through its proper officer a budget request within forty-five (45) days of the effective date of this division.
(Ord. of 1-19-1987, § 8)
Sec. 15-13. - Legal services.
The city attorney shall serve as counsel and legal adviser to the authority and shall perform such legal services as the authority shall request.
(Ord. of 1-19-1987, § 9)
Sec. 15-14. - Powers.
Subject to any general limitations enacted by the Mayor and Board of Councilmembers as well as the budgetary allowances or limitations imposed by the Mayor and Board and the rights and interests of any holder of bonds or obligations issued by the City of Dalton relating to or affecting property owned, operated, or leased by the City for airport and related aeronautical activities, the Authority shall have and exercise the following powers:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
(2)
To appoint, select and employ officers, agents and employees including engineering, architectural and construction experts, and fiscal agents and fix their respective compensation subject to its budgetary limitations.
(3)
To oversee the day-to-day operations and general management of the airport and landing field; however, such power shall not include the power to make or terminate contracts or leases with respect to land[,] which powers are expressly reserved to the Mayor and Board of Councilmembers.
(4)
To promulgate rules and regulations for air and ground operations on the airport and landing field all in conformity with applicable provisions of federal, State and local laws, statutes, ordinances, and regulations.
(Ord. of 1-19-1987, § 10; Ord. of 9-23-1996, § II; Ord. No. 18-06, § 3, 5-21-2018)
Sec. 15-15. - Monies payable to general fund.
All revenues collected by the authority on leases, franchises, hangar rentals, service fees, surplus property sales, and from any other source shall be properly accounted for and paid over to the general fund of the City of Dalton. The mayor and council shall establish accounts and audit procedures for revenues collected by the authority and shall implement same at all times.
(Ord. of 1-19-1987, § 11)
