Chapter 118 - UTILITIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Power of mayor and council to regulate public wells, springs and pumps, § 4-9; collection of water rents, § 5-5; board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners, § 8-16 et seq.; waterworks, § 8-41 et seq.
Cross reference— Any ordinance establishing or imposing any rates, charges or fees for utility services or connections saved from repeal, § 1-13(16); administration, ch. 2; public works and facilities committee, § 2-63; buildings and building regulations, ch. 22; mechanical code, § 22-126 et seq.; plumbing code, § 22-186 et seq.; electricity, § 22-291 et seq.; businesses, ch. 26; environment, ch. 50; historic preservation, ch. 58; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 70; planning, ch. 86; solid waste, ch. 94; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 98; subdivisions, ch. 102; required improvements to water supply in subdivisions, § 102-94; required improvement to sanitary sewerage in subdivisions, § 102-95; required improvements on utility strips in subdivisions, § 102-101; telecommunications, ch. 110; public/private utilities around trees, plants and shrubs, § 122-93.
State Constitution reference— Municipal water and sewage services, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III.
State Law reference— Dumping wastes into sewer pipeline, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-2; damaging or interfering with utility property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25; blasting or excavating near underground gas pipes and utility facilities, O.C.G.A. § 25-9-1 et seq.; franchises, contracts with public utilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7); municipal water and sewage systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5; disposal of public utility plants or properties, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-7 et seq.; state grants for public purposes, O.C.G.A. § 36-40-20 et seq.; contracts to provide industrial wastewater treatment services, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-2; public utilities, O.C.G.A. tit. 46.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 118-1. - Destroying, defacing, impairing, injuring property of public utilities.
It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, deface, impair or injure any gate or in any way to deface or injure any part of the gas plant, engine house, reservoir, standpipe, buildings or appurtenances, fences, trees or fixtures appertaining thereto or any water pipes, gates, cisterns, hydrants, fireplugs, fountains or any property belonging to the public utilities of the city.
(Code 1983, § 15-7)
State Law reference— Criminal trespass and other criminal damage to property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-21 et seq.
Sec. 118-2. - Attaching signs, posters or similar notices to poles.
It shall be unlawful for any person to attach, tack or nail any sign, poster, notice, advertisement or other similar article or thing to any utility pole, telephone or telegraph pole, tower or appurtenance for the transmission of electric current or telephonic communication at any place within the corporate limits.
(Code 1983, § 15-9)
Cross reference— Signs, app. B.
Secs. 118-3—118-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF WATER, LIGHT AND SINKING FUND COMMISSIONERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Annotation—The board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners is not a separate corporate entity and is not subject to an action for damages sustained from an act of the board in the performance of its powers or duties. Brownlee v. Dalton Board of Water, etc., Commissioners, 59 Ga. App. 538, 1 S.E.2d 599 (1939).
Charter reference— Disposition of proceeds of sale of public utility, § 4-17; employees' pension plan, § 5-34; board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners, § 8-16 et seq.
Cross reference— Boards, commissions and authorities, § 2-236 et seq.

Sec. 118-31. - Composition; appointment; term; function; limitation.
The board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners, consisting of five members, shall be appointed by the mayor and council as provided by Division II of Article VIII of the Charter. The board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners shall have such responsibilities over the department of public utilities of the city as provided in the Charter and by ordinance. The board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners shall have no authority to establish or to manage (1) a pension plan, a deferred compensation plan, a health and/or medical plan, or any other employee benefit plan or (2) a workers' compensation plan or any other self insurance plan.
(Code 1983, § 2-116; Ord. of 2-19-1996, §§ 3, 4; Ord. No. 02-13, § 1, 6-4-02)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 02-13, § 1, adopted June 4, 2002, repealed § 118-32(6), in its entirety.
Charter reference— Powers and duties of commissioners regulated by ordinance, § 8-16.
Sec. 118-32. - Authority, duties.
The board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners, having control of the public utilities and sewer services thereof, are authorized to:
(1)
Make and enforce any rule or regulation that may be necessary for the proper management of the public utilities and sewer services;
(2)
Prohibit any interference with the public utilities and sewer services;
(3)
Make rules providing for the cutting off of gas, water, electricity or sewer services from any property until any unpaid bill therefor due by the owner or tenant of the property shall be paid;
(4)
Fix a charge for turning on such water, gas or electricity or permitting resumption of sewer services where such has been cut off;
(5)
Prohibit any person from turning on the water, gas or electricity or permitting resumption of sewer services without authority from the board; and
(Code 1983, § 2-117; Ord. No. 02-13, § 2, 6-4-02)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 02-13, § 2, adopted June 4, 2002, repealed § 118-32(6), in its entirety.
Sec. 118-33. - Violation of rules of board.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the rules of the board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners with respect to public utilities, as provided for in section 118-32.
(Code 1983, § 2-118)
Secs. 118-34—118-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - WATER
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 118-61. - Direct connection to water main.
It shall be unlawful for any plumber or other person to make any connection of any water line to any store, house or other building except by connecting each store, house or other building directly with the city water main.
(Code 1983, § 27-1)
Sec. 118-62. - Multiple connections to water main.
Each house, store or other building in the city must be connected for water service directly with the city water main, and it shall be a violation of this section for more than one such house, store or other building to be connected for water with the city water main on the same tap, but each store, house or other building must have its individual tap with the city water main.
(Code 1983, § 27-2)
Sec. 118-63. - Pollution of water supply.
No person shall pollute the water in the reservoir, pipes or streams from which the city water supply is obtained.
(Code 1983, § 27-3)
State Law reference— Control of water pollution and surface water use, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq.
Sec. 118-64. - Opening hydrants, fireplugs, gates.
No person shall open any hydrant or fireplug or gate or remove or lift the cover of any hydrant or fireplug or gate without permission of the board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners or an employee thereof, except in case of fire, and then only under the direction of the fire department.
(Code 1983, § 27-4)
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, ch. 54.
Secs. 118-65—118-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - FLUORIDATION

Sec. 118-91. - Policy.
The board of public health of the county having recommended and requested that the public water supply of the city be fluoridated and the recommendation having been concurred in by the county medical society and other civic and public agencies concerned with the preservation of public health, it is declared that fluoride should be added to the public water supply, in order to afford maximum public health protection.
(Code 1983, § 27-21)
Sec. 118-92. - Purpose, scope, applicability.
The fluoridation of the public water supply of the city is declared a measure for the protection of public health, and the installation of fluoridation equipment; the supervision, control and maintenance thereof; the taking and submitting of samples for analysis; the control of purity thereof; and all other such appurtenant procedures in connection therewith shall be subject to regulation by the public health authorities. Nothing contained or provided in this division shall be construed or interpreted as divesting from the board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners any of its exclusive authority or control over the water department, since the declared purpose of this division is the furtherance of the declared policy for the preservation of public health.
(Code 1983, § 27-22)
Sec. 118-93. - Costs.
The cost of fluoridation of the public water supply of the city shall not be charged to the cost of the operation of the water department, because fluoridation is a proper charge against communal health activities and because the benefits to be derived by the consumers thereof bear no relation to the amount of water used. The total cost of acquisition, installation, maintenance and operation of such fluoridation equipment and facilities, including the cost of the fluoride, freight, handling, labor and storage costs, shall be borne by and charged against the budgeted expense of operation of the public health department.
(Code 1983, § 27-23)
Sec. 118-94. - Prerequisites to addition of fluoride.
The board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners, the duly constituted city agency and instrumentality having control, direction and supervision of its water system, shall begin the addition of fluoride to the public water supply after the local and state health authorities have approved the addition of fluoride and have:
(1)
Established reasonable maximum and minimum limits of fluoride, stated in parts per million, to be maintained in the public water supply;
(2)
Approved the type of chemical feeding equipment to be installed and used;
(3)
Approved the installation of the equipment, plant layout and methods of handling the fluoride compound to ensure the safety of employees;
(4)
Approved the method of analysis and control to be used in determining the fluoride content of the water before and after the addition of fluoride; and
(5)
Established a method of providing for the cost of acquisition, installation, operation and maintenance of fluoride equipment, fluoride compound and all other attendant costs.
(Code 1983, § 27-24)
Sec. 118-95. - Standards of facilities and equipment; supervision of installation, operation.
The facilities and equipment required to add chloride to the public water supply of the city and recommended and approved by the governing health authorities shall also meet the requirements of the board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners and shall be installed and operated under the direction and supervision of such board.
(Code 1983, § 27-25)
Sec. 118-96. - Standards of analysis and control.
Laboratory analysis and control of the fluoridation shall follow the specific instructions issued by the water purity control division of the state department of human resources, and the local health department, through its agents, shall submit such samples of water from the public supply from points before and after fluoridation and from one or more points in the distribution system and at such frequency of sampling as the state department of human resources shall require. The method of determining the fluoride content of the water shall be specified by the state department of human resources and shall be in agreement with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater.
(Code 1983, § 27-26)
Sec. 118-97. - Tests for purity of fluoride.
The tests for purity of the fluoride used in the fluoridation of the public water supply of the city shall have the approval of the state department of human resources.
(Code 1983, § 27-27)
Secs. 118-98—118-125. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - SEWERS[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Charter reference— Drainage and sewerage systems authorized, § 4-14; sale of public utilities, § 4-17; issuance of revenue certificates for extension of electric and gas system, § 4-18; board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners, § 8-16 et seq.
State Constitution reference— Authority of city to provide stormwater and sewage collection and disposal systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III.
State Law reference— Water quality control, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq.; interference with sewerage system, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-22; municipal water and sewage systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 118-126. - Control, operation and maintenance of system.
The management, control, operation and maintenance of the public sewer system shall be and is vested in and placed under the jurisdiction of the board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners.
(Code 1983, § 18-1)
Sec. 118-127. - Execution of agreements and commitments; employment of personnel.
Under this article, the board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners shall have the authority, right and duty to:
(1)
Make any and all contracts, agreements and commitments necessary to acquire materials and supplies, obtain labor and do each and every act and thing necessary to install additions, improvements and extensions to the sewer system.
(2)
Employ all clerical and other personnel necessary, supervisory or otherwise, for the operation and maintenance of the system, the employment of such personnel to be vested in and left to the uncontrolled discretion of the board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners in such manner as the board shall deem necessary to the proper management, control and operation of the public sewer system.
(Code 1983, § 18-2)
Sec. 118-128. - Establishment of rates, rules and regulations for users.
The board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners shall have the right, authority and duty to make such rates, rules and regulations for furnishing sewer service to residential, commercial and industrial users of such system, including but not limited to the following:
(1)
Levy and collection of service charge. The levy and collection of an adequate sewer service charge against all users of the public sewer system, residential, commercial or industrial, such charge to be based upon and calculated against the water consumption of such user at the rate of 60 percent of the water service charge or in such other amount or at such other rate as the board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners shall find necessary from time to time, in order to provide adequate revenue for debt service, operation and maintenance expenses, and other expenditures in connection with the system, with the authority to make such adjustments from time to time as may be found equitable in consideration of the service rendered and sewer system load or burden assumed in disposal of sewage.
(2)
Enforcement of collection of service charges. The enforcement of collection of sewer service charges provided for in this section, with the right to discontinue service of water or any other utility for nonpayment of sewer service charges, in the discretion of the board.
(3)
Inspections. The inspection of sanitary sewer installations and service connections and the approval or disapproval thereof.
(4)
Permits, service connection fees. To issue or refuse permits to tap into and to make service connections with any and all parts of the public sewer system and the provision for the charging of a service connection fee therefor.
(5)
Septic tank installations. The inspection of septic tank installations and the approval or disapproval thereof.
(6)
Other matters. Each and every other matter or thing necessary to ensure proper installation, operation and maintenance of a public sewer system.
(Code 1983, § 18-3)
Charter reference— Authority for ordinances pertaining to connections with sewerage systems, § 4-14.
Sec. 118-129. - Authority to discontinue other utility services.
Upon the installation of additions and extensions to the public sewer system and upon making available to users of the public sewer system facilities for service connections, the board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners shall have the right to discontinue service of other utilities to the users, residential, commercial or industrial, if they shall fail and refuse to make proper connections to and use of the public sewer system and the sanitary disposal of sewage through the system.
(Code 1983, § 18-4)
Sec. 118-130. - Extension beyond corporate limits.
The board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners may from time to time, in its discretion, make available to adjacent areas, lying outside the corporate limits, sewage disposal facilities through the public sewer system, under such rules and regulations and upon such rates and charges therefor as it may prescribe.
(Code 1983, § 18-5)
Sec. 118-131. - Service in areas without suitable sewage disposal facilities.
Service by the board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners will not be ordered or effected in any area which the city does not serve with suitable and adequate sewage disposal facilities.
(Code 1983, § 18-6)
Sec. 118-132. - Record of sewers.
All matters relating to the sewer shall be copied, from time to time, in the record of sewers, in the order of their occurrence.
(Code 1983, § 18-8)
Secs. 118-133—118-160. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SUBSTANDARD SEWERAGE

Sec. 118-161. - Service prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for the city utility system to furnish any services to property or property owners or occupants who shall have open, faulty or stopped sewerage on or connected to their property.
(Code 1983, § 18-21)
Sec. 118-162. - Decision as to service.
The decision as to whether sewerage is improper shall be the decision of the city-county health department.
(Code 1983, § 18-22)
Sec. 118-163. - Notice Required.
Notice of substandard sewerage shall be served upon the property owner or the occupant of the property, and the owner or occupant shall be given three days to correct the problem described in this division.
(Code 1983, § 18-23)
Sec. 118-164. - Service of notice upon superintendent.
The superintendent of the city water, light and sinking fund commissioners shall be served with a copy of the notice required in this division, and such notice shall suffice as a notice to cease service to the owner or the occupant of the property three days after receipt, unless the city-county health department shall notify the superintendent that the problem has been corrected.
(Code 1983, § 18-24)
Sec. 118-165. - Manner of service of notice.
The owner of the property described in this division shall be served first with the notice as provided in this division. If the owner cannot be ascertained or reached, the occupant shall be served with the notice.
(Code 1983, § 18-25)
Sec. 118-166. - Reconnection of service.
Utility service may be connected again only upon the correction of the improper and unsanitary conditions described in this division and approval of the correction by the city-county board of health and notification to the board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners by such health board.
(Code 1983, § 18-26)
Sec. 118-167. - Violations.
The continuation of improper or unsanitary sewerage operations after notification under this division and after the three-day time limit given to correct the operation shall be considered a nuisance and a violation of this Code.
(Code 1983, § 18-27)
State Law reference— Nuisances, O.C.G.A. tit. 41; nuisances in cities, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
Secs. 118-168—118-180. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - WIRELESS FACILITIES AND ANTENNAS

Sec. 118-181. - Purpose and compliance.
O.C.G.A. § 32-4-92(a)(10) authorizes the City of Dalton, Georgia (the "city") to establish reasonable regulations for the installation, construction, maintenance, renewal, removal, and relocation of pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, towers, traffic and other signals, and other equipment, facilities, or appliances in, on, along, over, or under the public roads of the city. Further, 47 U.S.C. § 253(c) provides that the city has authority to manage its public rights-of-way. Finally, the Georgia Streamlining Wireless Facilities and Antennas Act, O.C.G.A. Title 36, Chapter 66C (the "SWFAA"), addresses the placement of small wireless facilities in the public rights-of-way of the city.
The city finds it is in the best interest of the city and its residents and businesses to establish requirements, specifications reasonable conditions regarding placement of small wireless facilities, poles in the public rights-of-way. These requirements, specifications and conditions are adopted in order to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the residents and businesses of the city and to reasonably manage and protect the public rights-of-way and its uses in the city.
The objective of this article is to (i) implement the SWFAA and (ii) ensure use of the public rights-of-way is consistent with the design, appearance and other features of nearby land uses, protects the integrity of historic, cultural and scenic resources and does not harm residents' quality of life.
(Ord. No. 19-16, 10-21-2019)
Sec. 118-182. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms have the following meanings:
Antenna means: (i) communications equipment that transmits, receives, or transmits and receives electromagnetic radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services or other wireless communications; or (ii) communications equipment similar to equipment described in part (i) used for the transmission, reception, or transmission and reception of surface waves. Such term shall not include television broadcast antennas, antennas designed for amateur radio use, or satellite dishes for residential or household purposes.
Applicable codes means uniform building, fire, safety, electrical, plumbing, or mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization to the extent such codes have been adopted by the State of Georgia or the city or are otherwise applicable in the city.
Applicant means any person that submits an application.
Application means a written request submitted by an applicant to the city for a permit to: (i) collocate a small wireless facility in a right-of-way; or (ii) install, modify, or replace a pole or decorative pole in a right-of-way on which a small wireless facility is or will be located.
Authority pole means a pole owned, managed, or operated by or on behalf of the city. Such term shall not include poles, support structures, electric transmission structures, or equipment of any type owned by an electric supplier.
Collocate or collocation means to install, mount, modify, or replace a small wireless facility on or adjacent to a pole, decorative pole, or support structure.
Communications facility means the set of equipment and network components, including wires and cables and associated equipment and network components, used by a communications service provider to provide communications services.
Communications service provider means a provider of communications services.
Communications services means cable service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6); telecommunications service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53); information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. Section 153(24), as each such term existed on January 1, 2019; or wireless services.
Consolidated application means an application for the collocation of multiple small wireless facilities on existing poles or support structures or for the installation, modification, or replacement of multiple poles and the collocation of associated small wireless facilities.
Decorative pole means an authority pole that is specially designed and placed for aesthetic purposes.
Electric supplier means any electric light and power company subject to regulation by the Georgia Public Service Commission, any electric membership corporation furnishing retail service in this state, and any municipality which furnishes such service within this state.
Eligible facilities request means an eligible facilities request as set forth in 47 C.F.R. § 1.40001(b)(3), as it existed on January 1, 2019.
FCC means the Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
Fee means a one-time, nonrecurring charge based on time and expense.
Historic district means: (i) any district, site, building, structure, or object included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National Register of Historic Places maintained by the secretary of the interior of the United States in accordance with Section VI.D.1.a.i-v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified by 47 C.F.R. Part 1; (ii) any area designated as a historic district under Article 2 of Chapter 10 of Title 44, the Georgia Historic Preservation Act; or (iii) any area designated as a historic district or property by law prior to April 26, 2019.
Law means and includes any and all federal, state, or local laws, statutes, common laws, codes, rules, regulations, orders, or ordinances.
Micro wireless facility means a small wireless facility not larger in dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
Permit means a written authorization, in electronic or hard copy format, required to be issued by the city to initiate, continue, or complete the collocation of a small wireless facility or the installation, modification, or replacement of a pole or decorative pole upon which a small wireless facility is collocated.
Person means an individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, trust, or other entity or organization, including an authority.
Pole means a vertical pole such as a utility, lighting, traffic, or similar pole made of wood, concrete, metal, or other material that is lawfully located or to be located within a right-of-way, including without limitation a replacement pole and an authority pole. Such term shall not include a support structure, decorative pole, or electric transmission structure.
Rate means a recurring charge.
Reconditioning work means the activities associated with substantially painting, reconditioning, improving, or repairing authority poles.
Replace, replacement or replacing means to replace a pole or decorative pole with a new pole or a new decorative pole, similar in design, size, and scale to the existing pole or decorative pole consistent with 47 C.F.R. § 1.40001(b)(7) as it existed on January 1, 2019, in order to address limitations of, or change requirements applicable to, the existing pole to structurally support the collocation of a small wireless facility.
Replacement work means the activities associated with replacing an authority pole.
Right-of-way means, generally, property or any interest therein, whether or not in the form of a strip, which is acquired for or devoted to a public road; provided, however, that such term shall apply only to property or an interest therein that is under the ownership or control of the city and shall not include property or any interest therein acquired for or devoted to an interstate highway or the public rights, structures, sidewalks, facilities, and appurtenances of buildings for public equipment and personnel used for or engaged in administration, construction, or maintenance of public roads or research pertaining thereto or scenic easements and easements of light, air, view and access.
Small wireless facility means radio transceivers; surface wave couplers; antennas; coaxial, fiber optic, or other cabling; power supply; backup batteries; and comparable and associated equipment, regardless of technological configuration, at a fixed location or fixed locations that enable communication or surface wave communication between user equipment and a communications network and that meet both of the following qualifications: (i) each wireless provider's antenna could fit within an enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume; and (ii) all other wireless equipment associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 28 cubic feet in volume, measured based upon the exterior dimensions of height by width by depth of any enclosure that may be used. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of the volume of all other wireless equipment associated with any such facility: electric meters; concealment elements; telecommunications demarcation boxes; grounding equipment; power transfer switches; cut-off switches; and vertical cable runs for connection of power and other services. Such term shall not include a pole, decorative pole, or support structure on, under, or within which the equipment is located or collocated or to which the equipment is attached and shall not include any wireline backhaul facilities or coaxial, fiber optic, or other cabling that is between small wireless facilities, poles, decorative poles, or support structures or that is not otherwise immediately adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna.
State means the State of Georgia.
Support structure means a building, billboard, water tank, or any other structure to which a small wireless facility is or may be attached. Such term shall not include a decorative pole, electric transmission structure, or pole.
Wireless infrastructure provider means any person, including a person authorized to provide telecommunications services in this state, that builds, installs, or operates small wireless facilities, poles, decorative poles, or support structures on which small wireless facilities are or are intended to be used for collocation but that is not a wireless services provider.
Wireless provider means a wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services provider.
Wireless services means any services provided to the public using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or mobile.
Wireless services provider means a person that provides wireless services.
Wireline backhaul facility means an aboveground or underground wireline facility used to transport communications data from a telecommunications demarcation box associated with small wireless facility to a network.
In the event that any federal or state law containing definitions used in this article is amended, the definition in the referenced section, as amended, shall control.
(Ord. No. 19-16, 10-21-2019)
Sec. 118-183. - Permits.
A permit is required to collocate a small wireless facility in the public right-of-way or to install, modify, or replace a pole or a decorative pole in the public right-of-way. A permit is not required to perform the activities described in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-6(e) or (f).
Any person seeking to collocate a small wireless facility in the public right-of-way or to install, modify, or replace a pole or a decorative pole in the public right-of-way shall submit an application to the public works department for a permit. Applications are available from the public works department. The application template is included as Exhibit "A" to the ordinance from which this article derived [and is on file at the city clerk's office]. Any material change to information contained in an application shall be submitted in writing to the public works department within 30 days after the events necessitating the change.
Each application for a permit shall include the maximum application fees permitted under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(a)(1), (a)(2) and (a)(3). Such maximum application fees shall automatically increase on January 1 of each year beginning January 1, 2021, as provided under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(b).
The public works department shall review applications for permits according to the timelines and using the procedures identified in O.C.G.A. §§ 36-66C-7 and 36-66C-13.
Applications for permits shall be approved except as follows:
(1)
In order to receive a permit to install a pole or replace a decorative pole, the applicant must have determined after diligent investigation that it cannot meet the service objectives of the permit by collocating on an existing pole or support structure on which: (i) the applicant has the right to collocate subject to reasonable terms and conditions; and (ii) such collocation would not impose technical limitations or significant additional costs. The applicant shall certify that it has made such a determination in good faith, based on the assessment of a licensed engineer, and shall provide a written summary of the basis for such determination.
(2)
The public works department may deny an application for a permit upon any of the conditions identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(j).
(3)
For applications for new poles in the public right-of-way in areas zoned for residential use, the public works department may propose an alternate location in the public right-of-way within 100 feet of the location set forth in the application, and the wireless provider shall use the public works department proposed alternate location unless the location imposes technical limits or significant additional costs. The wireless provider shall certify that it has made such a determination in good faith, based on the assessment of a licensed engineer, and it shall provide a written summary of the basis for such determination.
A permit issued under this section 118-183 shall authorize such person to occupy the public rights-of-way to: (i) collocate a small wireless facility on or adjacent to a pole or a support structure that does not exceed the limitations set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h)(3) or on or adjacent to a decorative pole in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-12; and (ii) install, modify, or replace a pole or decorative pole for collocation of a small wireless facility that does not exceed the limitations set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h)(1) and (h)(2).
Upon the issuance of a permit under this article, and on each anniversary of such issuance, every person issued a permit shall submit to the city the maximum annual payments permitted under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(a)(4) and (a)(5); provided, however, that if such person removes its small wireless facilities form the public rights-of-way pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(e), then such person shall be responsible for the pro rata portion of the annual payment based on the number of days of occupation since the last annual payment. Upon making such pro rata payment and removal of the small wireless facilities, the person's annual payment obligations under this section shall cease as of the date of the actual removal. The maximum annual payments shall automatically increase on January 1 of each year beginning January 1, 2021, as provided under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(b).
Any person issued a permit shall pay the fees identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(a)(6) and (a)(7), as applicable.
The city may revoke a permit issued pursuant to this section 118-183 if the wireless provider or its equipment placed in the public right-of-way under that permit subsequently is not in compliance with any provision of this article or the Georgia Streamlining Wireless Facilities and Antennas Act. Upon revocation, the city may proceed according to this section.
If a wireless provider occupies the public rights-of-way without obtaining a permit required by this section 118-183 or without complying with the SWFAA, then the city may, at the sole discretion of the city, restore the right-of-way, to the extent practicable in the reasonable judgment of the city, to its condition prior to the unpermitted collocation or installation and to charge the responsible wireless provider the reasonable, documented cost of the city in doing so, plus a penalty not to exceed $1,000.00. The city may suspend the ability of the wireless provider to receive any new permits from the city under this section 118-183 until the wireless provider has paid the amount assessed for such restoration costs and the penalty assessed, if any; provided, however, that the city may not suspend such ability of any applicant that has deposited the amount in controversy in escrow pending an adjudication of the merits of the dispute by a court of competent jurisdiction.
All accepted applications for permits shall be publically available subject to the limitations identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-6(c).
An applicant may file a consolidated application related to multiple small wireless facilities, poles or decorative poles so long as such consolidated application meets the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-13.
Activities authorized under a permit shall be completed within the timelines provided in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(k)(2).
Issuance of a permit authorizes the applicant to: (i) undertake the collocation, installation, modification or replacement approved by the permit and (ii) operate and maintain the small wireless facilities and any associated pole covered by the permit for a period of ten years.
Permits shall be renewed following the expiration of the term identified in this section upon the terms and conditions identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(k)(2)(B).
If an application for a permit seeks to collocate small wireless facilities on authority poles in the public rights-of-way, then the city shall, within 60 days of receipt of the completed application: (i) provide a good faith estimate for any make-ready work necessary to enable the authority pole to support the proposed facility; or (ii) notify the wireless provider that the wireless provider will be required to perform the make-ready work. Any make-ready work performed by the city shall be completed pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(n).
(Ord. No. 19-16, 10-21-2019)
Sec. 118-184. - Removal; relocation; reconditioning; replacement; abandonment.
A person may remove its small wireless facilities from the public rights-of-way according to the procedures of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(e).
In the event of a removal under this section, the right-of-way shall be, to the extent practicable in the reasonable judgment of the city, restored to its condition prior to the removal. If a person fails to return the right-of-way, to the extent practicable in the reasonable judgment of the city, to its condition prior to the removal within 90 days of the removal, the city may, at the sole discretion of the city, restore the right-of-way to such condition and charge the person the city's reasonable, documented cost of removal and restoration, plus a penalty not to exceed $500.00. The city may suspend the ability of the person to receive any new permits under section 118-183 until the person has paid the amount assessed for such restoration costs and the penalty assessed, if any; provided, however, that the city will not suspend such ability of any person that has deposited the amount in controversy in escrow pending an adjudication of the merits of the dispute by a court of competent jurisdiction.
If, in the reasonable exercise of police powers, the city determines: (i) a pole or support structure unreasonably interferes with the widening, repair, reconstruction, or relocation of a public road or highway, or (ii) relocation of poles, support structures, or small wireless facilities is required as a result of a public project, the wireless provider shall relocate such poles, support structures, or small wireless facilities pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(1). If the wireless provider fails to relocate a pole, support structure or small wireless facility or fails to provide a written good faith estimate of the time needed to relocate the pole, support structure or small wireless within the time period prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(1), the city make take the actions authorized by O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(o), in addition to any other powers under applicable law.
The city shall recondition and replace authority poles consistent with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(m). Wireless providers shall accommodate and cooperate with reconditioning and replacement consistent with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(m).
A wireless provider must notify the city of its decision to abandon any small wireless facility, support structure or pole pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(p)(1). The wireless provider shall perform all acts and duties identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(p) regarding abandonment. The city may take all actions and exercise all powers authorized under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(p) upon abandonment, in addition to any other powers under applicable law.
(Ord. No. 19-16, 10-21-2019)
Sec. 118-185. - Standards.
Small wireless facilities and new, modified, or replacement poles to be used for collocation of small wireless facilities may be placed in the public right-of-way as a permitted use: (i) upon a receipt of a permit under section 118-183; (ii) subject to applicable codes; and (iii) so long as such small wireless facilities and new, modified, or replacement poles to be used for collocation of small wireless facilities comply with the appropriate provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h).
(1)
New, modified, or replacement poles installed in the right-of-way in a historic district and in an area zoned primarily for residential use shall not exceed 50 feet above ground level.
(2)
Each new, modified, or replacement pole installed in the right-of-way that is not in a historic district or in an area zoned primarily for residential use shall not exceed the greater of:
a.
Fifty feet above ground level; or
b.
Ten feet greater in height above ground level than the tallest existing pole in the same public right-of-way in place as of January 1, 2019, and located within 500 feet of the new proposed pole;
(3)
New small wireless facilities in the public right-of-way and collocated on an existing pole or support structure shall not exceed more than ten feet above the existing pole or support structure.
(4)
New small wireless facilities in the public right-of-way collocated on a new or replacement pole under this section may not extend above the top of such poles.
A decorative pole should only be located where an existing pole can be removed and replaced, or at a new location where the city has identified that a streetlight is necessary.
Unless it is determined that another design is less intrusive, or placement is required under applicable law, small wireless facilities shall be concealed as follows:
(1)
Antennas located at the top of poles and support structures shall be incorporated into the pole or support structure, or placed within shrouds of a size such that the antenna appears to be part of the pole or support structure;
(2)
Antennas placed elsewhere on a pole or support structure shall be integrated into the pole or support structure, or be designed and placed to minimize visual impacts.
(3)
Radio units or equipment cabinets holding radio units and mounted on a pole shall be placed as high as possible, located to avoid interfering with, or creating any hazard to, any other use of the public rights-of-way, and located on one side of the pole. Unless the radio units or equipment cabinets can be concealed by appropriate traffic signage, radio units or equipment cabinets mounted below the communications space on poles shall be designed so that the largest dimension is vertical, and the width is such that the radio units or equipment cabinets are minimally visible from the opposite side of the pole on which they are placed.
(4)
Wiring and cabling shall be neat and concealed within or flush to the pole or support structure, ensuring concealment of these components to the greatest extent possible.
Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary, an applicant may collocate a small wireless facility within a historic district, and may place or replace a pole within a historic district, only upon satisfaction of the following: (i) issuance of a permit under section 118-183 and (ii) compliance with applicable codes.
Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary, an applicant may collocate a small wireless facility on a decorative pole, or may replace a decorative pole with a new decorative pole, in the event the existing decorative pole will not structurally support the attachment, only upon satisfaction of the following: (i) issuance of a permit under section 118-183 and (ii) compliance with applicable codes.
(Ord. No. 19-16, 10-21-2019)
Sec. 118-186. - Miscellaneous.
Should any section or provision of this article be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional, invalid or unlawful, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of the ordinance not so declared to be unconstitutional, invalid, or unlawful.
All resolutions and ordinances of the City of Dalton or parts thereof in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its adoption and publication in two public places within the City of Dalton for five consecutive days, the public welfare of the City of Dalton requiring it.
(Ord. No. 19-16, 10-21-2019)
Secs. 118-187—118-199. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - FRANCHISE FEES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 118-200. - Permit or franchise fee required.
A permit or franchise fee, pursuant to terms of this article, is required prior to installation of and continued maintenance of poles, pipes, etc., on public roads or alleys.
(1)
No person or entity shall install, construct, maintain or cause to be installed, constructed or maintained any pipe, main, conduit, cable, wire, pole, tower, traffic or other signal and other equipment, facilities, appliance, receptacle or sign, in, on, along, over or under the public roads or alleys of the city which are a part of the city's road system without first obtaining either a permit therefor or franchise granted by the city.
(2)
No franchise shall be granted except by adoption by the mayor and city council of a franchise ordinance pursuant to this article. Within such ordinance, a franchise shall be granted for the constructing, maintaining, operating, extending, and use of utility infrastructure such as poles, lines, cables, equipment, pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, lines, towers, equipment, and other apparatus in, on, along, over or under the streets, alleys, and other public places of the city within the present and future corporate limits of the city.
(3)
The fees for any franchise shall not be in excess of those as may be authorized by any state or federal regulatory agency where applicable.
(4)
For each sign and each receptacle on the public right-of-way, excepting those used in connection with the collection and delivery of the United States mail or utility infrastructure under a franchise, there is assessed a fee in the amount established by action of the city council, a copy of which is on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 21-02, § 2, 3-15-2021)
Sec. 118-201. - Right to select electrical supplier.
Nothing contained in this article shall limit or restrict the right of customers within the corporate limits of the city to select an electric supplier as may be provided by law.
(Ord. No. 21-02, § 2, 3-15-2021)
Sec. 118-202. - Amendments.
The city may enter into such additional agreements with respect to the streets, alleys, and public places of the city as the city and any electric service franchisee may deem reasonable and appropriate; provided, however, that such agreements shall not be inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the franchise granted in this article, shall not extend beyond the term of the franchise, and shall be enforceable separate and apart from the franchise.
(Ord. No. 21-02, § 2, 3-15-2021)
Sec. 118-203. - Acceptance.
Unless another form of acceptance is specified in this article with respect to an electric service franchisee, the electric service franchisee's installation of the facilities or continued use of existing facilities after adoption of this article shall form a contract between the electric service franchisee and the city.
(Ord. No. 21-02, § 2, 3-15-2021)
Sec. 118-204. - Conflicting provisions.
All laws and ordinances, and all prior agreements between the electric service franchisee and the city with respect to the electric service franchisee's use of the city's streets, alleys, and public places, in actual conflict herewith shall stand repealed and terminated, respectively, upon the passing of this article and the franchisee's acceptance of the franchise as provided for herein, provided, however, the franchisee shall retain all rights with respect to any easement or other property right, other than a franchise, previously granted.
(Ord. No. 21-02, § 2, 3-15-2021)
Secs. 118-205—118-209. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - NORTH GEORGIA ELECTRIC MEMBERSHIP CORPORATION

Sec. 118-210. - Grant of franchise.
The authority, right, permission and consent are hereby granted to North Georgia Electric Membership Corporation (hereinafter sometimes referred to as "North Georgia EMC"), its successors, lessees and assigns (the "company"), subject to the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter for a period of 35 years, to occupy and use the streets, alleys and public places of the city within the present and future limits of the city as from time to time the company may deem proper or necessary for the overhead or underground construction, maintenance, operation and extension of poles, towers, lines, wires, cables, conduits, insulators, transformers, appliances, equipment, connections and other apparatus (collectively, the "facilities") for any business or purpose, including transmitting, conveying, conducting, using, supplying and distributing electricity for light, heat, power and other purposes for which electric current may be or become useful or practicable for public or private use, and to re-enter upon such streets, alleys and public places from time to time as the company may deem proper or necessary to perform these functions, and to cut and trim trees and shrubbery when and where necessary, in the judgment of the company, to ensure safe and efficient service.
(Ord. No. 21-02, § 2, 3-15-2021)
Sec. 118-211. - Payment of franchise fees required.
(a)
Beginning July 1, 2021, the use by the company of the streets, alleys, public places and other property of the city for the operation of the facilities, and the grant of the requisite street franchise rights, shall incur the payment of franchise fees pursuant to the requirements of subsection 118-212(1), and continued use and occupancy of such city property for said purpose without payment of such franchise fees will constitute a breach of its obligations under said franchise, and the city shall be entitled to enforce its rights under the franchise by appropriate proceeding at law or equity with this chapter by appropriate proceeding at law or in equity.
(b)
If not paid by the due date, unpaid franchise fees shall accrue interest at the rate of seven percent per annum but not to exceed the maximum authorized by state law.
(Ord. No. 21-02, § 2, 3-15-2021)
Sec. 118-212. - Terms and conditions.
The rights, permission and consents herein contained are made for the following considerations and upon the following terms and conditions:
(1)
The company shall pay to the city:
a.
On or before the first day of March of the first year following the granting of this franchise, a sum of money equal to four percent of the gross sales of electric energy to all of the company's customers served under residential and commercial rate schedules within the corporate limits of the city, beginning on the first day of the month following the effective date of this franchise during the preceding calendar year and four percent of the gross sales of electric energy to all of the company's customers served under industrial rate schedules within the corporate limits of the city during the period beginning on the first day of the month following the effective date of this franchise and ending on December 31 of such preceding calendar year; and
b.
On or before the first day of March of each subsequent year thereafter during the term of this franchise, a sum of money equal to four percent of the gross sales of electric energy to all of the company's customers served under residential, commercial, and industrial rate schedules within the corporate limits of the city during each preceding calendar year, it being understood that duplicative payments are not contemplated, and further on condition that in the event the city shall grant to any other entity the right to use and occupy the city's property and right-of-way for like purposes, such use and occupancy shall be upon the same terms and conditions as those herein contained, including the payment provisions hereof.
Notwithstanding the foregoing the company shall have the option to pay to the city the sums due under this paragraph on a monthly basis.
(2)
All payments shall be accompanied by a summary prepared by the company showing the volume of gross sales for all service classifications (residential, commercial, industrial) for the preceding term. Upon the city's request, the company will make reasonable efforts to work with the city in confirming compliance with the payment requirements of subsection (1) of this section, provided the company is not obligated to disclose confidential or trade secret information. The company will accommodate the city in such efforts at such reasonable times as may be requested by the city, but not more frequently then once in a three-year period.
(3)
The amount, if any, of any tax, fee, charge or imposition of any kind required, demanded or exacted by the city on any account, other than ad valorem taxes on property and license taxes on the sale of home appliances, shall operate to reduce to the extent of such tax, fee, charge or imposition the amount due from the percentage of gross sales as provided in subsection (1) of this section.
(4)
The company shall fully protect, indemnify and save harmless the city from all damages to person or property caused by the construction, maintenance, operation or extension of the facilities, or conditions of streets, alleys or public places resulting therefrom, for which the said city would otherwise be liable, other than those arising from the city's sole negligence or misconduct or where the city would be immune from liability.
(5)
The company shall, in constructing, maintaining, operating and extending its facilities, be subject to all reasonable exercises of the police power by the city. Nothing contained herein, however, shall require the company to surrender or limit its property rights created hereby without due process of law, including adequate compensation, for any other purpose at the instance of the city or for any purpose at the instance of any other entity, private or governmental.
(6)
The grant of the rights, permission and consents by the city to the company contained in this chapter are specifically conditioned upon the payment of all sums due the city in accordance with the rate, conditions and payment dates set forth in subsection (1) of this section, and failure by the company to timely pay the franchise fees required by said subsection (1) of this section shall constitute a breach of its obligations hereunder. In the event that the city maintains that the company breached its obligations, it shall give the company not less than 30 days written notice thereof to cure such breach prior to pursuing any action to force its rights hereunder. If the city and the company have not resolved the issue, the city will be entitled to force its rights under the franchise by appropriate proceeding in law or equity. If the city and the company have not resolved the issue either may seek a declaratory judgment as to forfeitures in the county superior court.
(7)
For the purposes of this section, the term "distribution facilities" or "facilities" means poles, lines, wires, cables, conductors, insulators, transformers, appliances, equipment, connections, and other apparatus installed by or on behalf of the company (whether before or after the adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived) in the streets, alleys, or public places of the city for the purpose of distributing electricity within the present and future corporate limits of the city. Distribution facilities do not include any of the following:
a.
Electric transmission lines with a design operating voltage of 46 kilovolts or greater (hereinafter referred to as "transmission lines");
b.
Poles, towers, frames, or other supporting structures for transmission lines (hereinafter referred to as "transmission structures");
c.
Transmission lines and related wires, cables, conductors, insulators, or other apparatus attached to transmission structures;
d.
Lines, wires, cables, or conductors installed in concrete-encased ductwork; or
e.
Network underground facilities.
(8)
In the event that the city or any other entity acting on behalf of the city requests or demands that the company relocate any distribution facilities from their then-current locations within the streets, alleys, and public places of the city in connection with a public project or improvement, then the company shall relocate, at its expense, the distribution facilities affected by such project or improvement. The company's obligations under this subsection (8) shall not affect the amounts paid or to be paid to the city under the provisions of subsection (1) of this section. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subsection (8), the company shall not be obligated to relocate, at its expense, any of the following:
a.
Distribution facilities that are located on private property (which shall include those located on easements acquired by the company from persons or entities other than the city) at the time relocation is requested or demanded;
b.
Distribution facilities that are relocated in connection with sidewalk improvements (unless such sidewalk improvements are related to or associated with road widenings, the creation of new turn lanes, or the addition of acceleration/deceleration lanes);
c.
Distribution facilities that are relocated in connection with streetscape projects or other projects undertaken primarily for aesthetic purposes;
d.
Distribution facilities that are converted from an overhead configuration or installation to an underground configuration or installation; or
e.
Distribution facilities that do not obstruct or interfere with plans for road widening, the creation of new turn lanes, or acceleration and deceleration lanes.
(9)
The city and the company recognize that both parties benefit from economic development within the city. Accordingly, when it is necessary to relocate any of the company's facilities (whether distribution facilities, transmission lines, transmission structures, or other facilities) within the city, the city and the company shall work cooperatively to minimize costs, delays, and inconvenience to both parties while ensuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, the city and the company shall communicate in a timely fashion to coordinate city projects including the city's five-year capital improvement plan, the city's short-term work program or the city's annual budget in an effort to minimize relocation of the company's facilities. Such communication may include, but is not limited to:
a.
Both parties' participation in the Georgia Utilities Coordinating Council, Inc. (or any successor organization) or a local utilities coordinating council (or any successor organization); and
b.
Both parties' use of the National Joint Utility Notification System (or any successor to such system mutually acceptable to both parties).
(10)
with regard to each project undertaken by or on behalf of the city for which the company is not obligated, in accordance with subsection (8) of this section, to pay the cost of relocation, the city shall pay the company in advance for the company's estimated cost to relocate any of the company's facilities (whether distribution facilities, transmission lines, transmission structures, or other facilities) in connection with such project.
(11)
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the company shall not be obligated to pay to the city the fee provided for herein, or any portion thereof, on the gross sales of electric energy accruing prior to the effective date of this franchise to customers living within areas that, on the effective date of this franchise, are not both:
a.
Within the city limits on the effective date; and
b.
Depicted as being within the city limits on the maps provided to company and said map shall be available for inspection during business hours in the office of the city clerk, such maps shall be identical to those submitted to the United States Census Bureau.
Upon request of the Company the City shall confirm an address as reasonably within the city limits.
(12)
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the company shall not be obligated to pay to the city the fee provided for herein, or any portion thereof, on the gross sales of electric energy to customers living within areas that, after the effective date of this franchise, are annexed to the corporate limits of the city before 90 days after the company receives written notice from the city that the city intends to annex (or has already annexed) the territory in which said customers are located. To be effective, any such notice must include an electronic map of the annexed areas in a format reasonably acceptable to company, and identical to the map submitted by the city to the United States Census Bureau.
(Ord. No. 21-02, § 2, 3-15-2021)
Secs. 118-213—118-219. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - GEORGIA POWER COMPANY

Sec. 118-220. - Grant of franchise.
The authority, right, permission and consent are hereby granted to Georgia Power Company its successors, lessees and assigns ("GPC"), subject to the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter for a period of 35 years, to occupy and use the streets, alleys, and public places of the city within the present and future limits of the city as from time to time GPC may deem proper or necessary for the overhead or underground construction, maintenance, operation and extension of poles, towers, lines, wires, cables, conduits, insulators, transformers, appliances, equipment, connections and other apparatus (collectively, the "facilities") for any business or purpose, including transmitting, conveying, conducting, using, supplying and distributing electricity for light, heat, power and other purposes for which electric current may be or become useful or practicable for public or private use, and to re-enter upon such streets, alleys and public places from time to time as GPC may deem proper or necessary to perform these functions, and to cut and trim trees and shrubbery when and where necessary, in the judgment of GPC, to ensure safe and efficient service. GPC's written acceptance of the franchise granted herein, within 90 days of the approval of this division, shall form a contract between GPC and the city pursuant to the terms of the franchise.
(Ord. No. 21-02, § 2, 3-15-2021)
Sec. 118-221. - Payment of franchise fees required.
(a)
Upon GPC's acceptance of the franchise granted hereunder, the use by GPC of the streets, alleys, public places and other property of the city for the operation of the facilities, and the grant of the requisite street franchise rights, shall incur payment of franchise fees pursuant to the requirements of subsection 118-222(1) of this division, and continued use and occupancy of such city property for said purpose without payment of such franchise fees will constitute a breach of its obligations under said franchise, and the city shall be entitled to enforce its rights under the franchise by appropriate proceeding at law or in equity.
(b)
If not paid by the due date, unpaid franchise fees shall accrue interest at the rate of seven percent per annum but not to exceed the maximum authorized by state law.
(Ord. No. 21-02, § 2, 3-15-2021)
Sec. 118-222. - Terms and conditions.
The rights, permission and consents herein contained are made for the following considerations and upon the following terms and conditions:
(1)
GPC shall pay to the city:
a.
On or before the first day of March of the first year following the granting of this franchise, a sum of money equal to four percent of the gross sales of electric energy to all of GPC's customers served under residential and commercial rate schedules (as prescribed by the Georgia Public Service Commission) within the corporate limits of the city during the preceding calendar year and four percent of the gross sales of electric energy to all of the GPC's customers served under industrial rate schedules (as so prescribed) within the corporate limits of the city during the period beginning on the first day of the month following granting of this franchise and ending on December 31 of such preceding calendar year; and
b.
On or before the first day of March of each subsequent year thereafter, during the term of this franchise, a sum of money equal to four percent of the gross sales of electric energy to all of GPC's customers served under residential, commercial, and industrial rate schedules (as so prescribed) within the corporate limits of the city during each preceding calendar year, it being understood that duplicative payments are not contemplated, and further on condition that in the event the city shall grant to any other entity the right to use and occupy the city's property and right-of-way for like purposes, such use and occupancy shall be upon the same terms and conditions as those herein contained, including the payment provisions hereof.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, GPC shall have the option to pay to the city the sums due under this paragraph on a monthly basis.
(2)
All payments shall be accompanied by a summary prepared by GPC showing the volume of gross sales for all service summary classifications (residential, commercial, industrial) for the preceding term. Upon the city's request, GPC will make reasonable efforts to work with the city in confirming compliance with the payment requirements of subsection (1) of this section, provided that GPC is not obligated to disclose confidential or trade secret information. GPC will accommodate the city in such efforts at such reasonable times as may be requested by the city, but not more frequently than once in a three-year period.
(3)
The amount, if any, of any tax, fee, charge or imposition of any kind required, demanded or exacted by the city on any account, other than ad valorem taxes on property and license taxes on the sale of home appliances, shall operate to reduce to the extent of such tax, fee, charge or imposition the amount due from the percentage of gross sales as provided in subsection (1) of this section.
(4)
GPC shall fully protect, indemnify and save harmless the city from all damages to person or property caused by the construction, maintenance, operation or extension of GPC's facilities or conditions of streets, alleys or public places resulting therefrom, for which the said city would otherwise be liable other than those arising from the city's sole negligence or misconduct or where the city would be immune from liability.
(5)
GPC shall, in constructing, maintaining, operating and extending its facilities be subject to all reasonable exercises of the police power by the city. Nothing contained herein, however, shall require GPC to surrender or limit its property rights created hereby without due process of law, including adequate compensation, for any other purpose at the instance of the city or for any purpose at the instance of any other entity, private or governmental.
(6)
The grant of the rights, permission and consents by the city to the GPC contained in this division are specifically conditioned upon the payment of all sums due the city in accordance with the rate, conditions and payment dates set forth in subsection (1) of this section, and failure by GPC to timely pay the franchise fees required by said subsection (1) of this section shall constitute a breach of its obligations hereunder. In the event that the city maintains that GPC has breached its obligations hereunder, it shall give the company not less than 30 days written notice thereof to cure such breach prior to pursuing any action to enforce its rights hereunder. If the city and GPC have not resolved the issue, the city will be entitled to enforce its rights under the franchise by appropriate proceeding at law or in equity.
(7)
For the purposes of this section, the term "distribution facilities" or "facilities" means poles, lines, wires, cables, conductors, insulators, transformers, appliances, equipment, connections, and other apparatus installed by or on behalf of GPC (whether before or after the adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived) in the streets, alleys, or public places of the city for the purpose of distributing electricity within the present and future corporate limits of the city. Distribution facilities do not include any of the following:
a.
Electric transmission lines with a design operating voltage of 46 kilovolts or greater (hereinafter referred to as "transmission lines");
b.
Poles, towers, frames, or other supporting structures for transmission lines (hereinafter referred to as "transmission structures");
c.
Transmission lines and related wires, cables, conductors, insulators, or other apparatus attached to transmission structures;
d.
Lines, wires, cables, or conductors installed in concrete-encased ductwork; or
e.
Network underground facilities.
(8)
In the event that the city or any other entity acting on behalf of the city requests or demands that GPC relocate any distribution facilities from their then-current locations within the streets, alleys, and public places of the city in connection with a public project or improvement, then GPC shall relocate, at its expense, the distribution facilities affected by such project or improvement. GPC's obligations under this subsection (8) shall not affect the amounts paid or to be paid to the city under the provisions of subsection (1) of this section. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subsection (8), GPC shall not be obligated to relocate, at its expense, any of the following:
a.
Distribution facilities that are located on private property (which shall include those located on easements acquired by GPC from persons or entities other than the city) at the time relocation is requested or demanded;
b.
Distribution facilities that are relocated in connection with sidewalk improvements (unless such sidewalk improvements are related to or associated with road widenings, the creation of new turn lanes, or the addition of acceleration/deceleration lanes);
c.
Distribution facilities that are relocated in connection with streetscape projects or other projects undertaken primarily for aesthetic purposes;
d.
Distribution facilities that are converted from an overhead configuration or installation to an underground configuration or installation; or
e.
Distribution facilities that do not obstruct or interfere with plans for road widening, the creation of new turn lanes, or acceleration and deceleration lanes.
(9)
The city and GPC recognize that both parties benefit from economic development within the city. Accordingly, when it is necessary to relocate any of GPC's facilities (whether distribution facilities, transmission lines, transmission structures, or other facilities) within the city, the city and GPC shall work cooperatively to minimize costs, delays, and inconvenience to both parties while ensuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, the city and GPC shall communicate in a timely fashion to coordinate city projects included in the city's five-year capital improvement plan, the city's short-term work program, or the city's annual budget, in an effort to minimize relocation of the GPC's facilities. Such communication may include, but is not limited to:
a.
Both parties' participation in the Georgia Utilities Coordinating Council, Inc. (or any successor organization) or a local utilities coordinating council (or any successor organization); and
b.
Both parties' use of the National Joint Utility Notification System (or any successor to such system mutually acceptable to both parties).
(10)
With regard to each project undertaken by or on behalf of the city for which GPC is not obligated, in accordance with subsection (8) of this section, to pay the cost of relocation, the city shall pay GPC in advance for the company's estimated cost to relocate any of GPC's facilities (whether distribution facilities, transmission lines, transmission structures, or other facilities) in connection with such project.
(11)
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, GPC shall not be obligated to pay to the city the fee provided for herein, or any portion thereof, on the gross sales of electric energy to customers living within areas that, on the effective date of this franchise, are not both:
a.
Within the city limits on the effective date; and
b.
Depicted as being within the city limits on the maps provided to GPC and said map shall be available for inspection during business hours in the office of the city clerk; such maps shall be identical to those submitted to the United States Census Bureau.
In addition to said maps, the city shall provide GPC with a list of addresses and such additional information as it shall reasonably require to confirm the location of such customers as within the city limits.
(12)
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, GPC shall not be obligated to pay to the city the fee provided for herein, or any portion thereof, on the gross sales of electric energy to customers living within areas that, after the effective date of this franchise, are annexed to the corporate limits of the city, before 90 days after GPC receives written notice from the city that the city intends to annex (or has already annexed) the territory in which said customers are located. To be effective, any such notice must include an electronic map of the annexed areas in a format reasonably acceptable to GPC, and identical to the map submitted by the city to the United States Census Bureau.
(Ord. No. 21-02, § 2, 3-15-2021)
