ARTICLE IX. - OUTDOOR WATER USE

Sec. 50-315. - Purpose.
The city recognizes an imminent need to create a culture of water conservation and to plan for water supply enhancement during future extreme drought conditions and other water emergencies. The city also recognizes that reasonable restrictions on the outdoor watering of landscape are necessary in furtherance of addressing this need. This article has been adopted to comply with the state law requirement that all cities in Georgia adopt an ordinance to be in effect no later than January 1, 2010 to allow outdoor watering of landscape only between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. with certain exceptions as provided herein.
(Ord. No. 10-18, § 1, 12-20-2010)
Sec. 50-316. - Restriction on outdoor water of landscape.
Outdoor watering for purposes of planting, growing, managing, or maintaining ground cover, trees, shrubs, or other plants may occur only between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.; provided, however, that this limitation shall not create any limitation upon the following outdoor water uses:
(a)
Commercial agricultural operations, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3 to the extent such operations are otherwise permitted in this Code;
(b)
Capture and reuse of cooling system condensate or stormwater in compliance with this Code and state guidelines;
(c)
Reuse of gray water in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.2 and applicable local board of health regulations;
(d)
Use of reclaimed waste water by a designated user from a system permitted by the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources to provide reclaimed waste water;
(e)
Watering personal food gardens;
(f)
Watering new and replanted plant, seed, or turf in landscapes, golf courses, or sports turf fields during installation and for a period of 30 days immediately following the date of installation;
(g)
Drip irrigation or irrigation using soaker hoses;
(h)
Hand watering with a hose with automatic cutoff or handheld container;
(i)
Use of water withdrawn from private water wells or surface water by an owner or operator of property if such well or surface water is on said property;
(j)
Watering horticultural crops held for sale, resale, or installation;
(k)
Watering athletic fields, golf courses, or public turf grass recreational areas;
(l)
Installation, maintenance, or calibration of irrigation systems; or
(m)
Hydroseeding.
(Ord. No. 10-18, § 1, 12-20-2010)
Sec. 50-317. - Enforcement.
(a)
No person shall use or allow the use of water in violation of the restrictions on outdoor water use contained in [this article].
(b)
The building inspector, chief of police and the chief executive officer of city utilities and their respective designees shall be the enforcement authorities for this article. The mayor and council may also authorize other departments as may be deemed necessary to support enforcement.
(c)
Any violation of this section may be enforced by a citation returnable to the municipal court and upon conviction the violator shall be subject to a civil penalty as follows:
(1)
First violation—A warning citation.
(2)
A second violation within 12 months of a warning citation—A civil penalty of $25.00.
(3)
A third violation within 12 months of a citation for a second violation—A civil penalty of $100.00.
(4)
A third violation—A civil penalty of not less than $200.00 and not more than $1,000.00.
(Ord. No. 10-18, § 1, 12-20-2010)
