Chapter 110 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 26; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 98; utilities, ch. 118; zoning, app. A; towers and antennae, app. A, art. VI-A, § 6A-1 et seq.
State Law reference— Cable television systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1 et seq.

Sec. 110-1. - Cable television rates and charges.
(a)
The city will follow the Federal Communications Commission rate regulations in its regulation of the basic service rates and charges of the cable television company (Falcon Cable) and any other cable television system operating in the city, notwithstanding any different or inconsistent provisions in the franchise.
(b)
In connection with such regulation, the city will ensure a reasonable opportunity for consideration of the views of interested parties.
(c)
The city administrator is authorized to execute on behalf of the city and file with the Federal Communications Commission such certification forms or other instruments as may be required by the Federal Communications Commission rate regulations in order to enable the city to regulate basic service rates and charges.
(Code 1983, § 12-221)
Sec. 110-2. - Telephones, outlets, connections.
It shall be unlawful for any telephone company to place, establish or maintain any telephones, telephone outlets or connections on the public roads, streets, alleys and highways in the city or between any public sidewalk and public streets for any purpose other than temporary installations necessary for repair and maintenance of such telephone company as may be permitted by the franchise of such company.
(Code 1983, § 22-23)
State Law reference— Grant of right to obstruct public street prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-10; franchise for use of streets by utilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2.
Sec. 110-3. - Franchise fee.
The city hereby requires a franchise fee of five percent of gross revenues generated within the city for any cable or video state franchise issued within its corporate boundaries by the state.
(Ord. No. 08-04, § 1, 3-17-2008)
Sec. 110-4. - Authorized designee.
The city hereby authorizes the city administrator upon receipt of notice to the city of its right to designate a franchise fee for an applicant for, or holder of, an existing state franchise, to provide written notice to the secretary of state and each applicant for, or holder of, a state franchise within a service area that is wholly or partially located within the city limits of the five percent franchise fee rate applicable to such applicant or holder of a state franchise.
(Ord. No. 08-04, § 2, 3-17-2008)
