ARTICLE X. - STREET AND SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS[15]
Footnotes:
--- (15) ---
Editor's note— 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1, from which this article is derived, was enacted as repealing 1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, §§ 2—16 relating to the same subject. The word "act" in this article refers to 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1. Although the 1959 Act did not expressly so provide, it has been codified as superseding 1884-85 Ga. Laws, page 381, §§ 10—15; 1910 Ga. Laws, page 576, §§ 6 and 7; and 1911 Ga. Laws, page 1097, relating to the same subject.
Charter cross references—Authority to erect monuments in streets, § 4-13; authority over streets, sidewalks, etc., § 4-15.
State Law reference— Street improvements, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-1. - Definitions.
As used in this act, the following words shall be construed as in this section set forth, to wit:
The word[s] "improve" and "improvement" including the grading, regrading, paving, repaving, repairing, macadamizing and remacadamizing of, and other methods of improving[,] streets, alleys, sidewalks or other public places or ways; the construction, reconstruction and repair of curbs, gutters and drains; and the alteration and repair of drains and connections necessary to conform to such improvements.
The word "streets" includes streets, avenues, alleys, sidewalks and other public places or ways.
The word "pave" shall include storm drainings, paving, macadamizing and grading.
"Frontage" means the side or sides of the lot or parcel of land in question abutting on the improvement.
The word "cost" shall, in addition to the cost and expense of material and labor, or the contract price of any improvement, include all engineering and inspection costs, the costs of moving utilities, and a proper proportion of the salaries and expenses of the engineering staff of the city while such staff is engaged on said improvement, whether such improvement be made by the city with its own forces or under contract with an independent contractor.
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 2; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
Sec. 10-2. - Authority to improve streets and public places, assess costs thereof.
The City of Dalton is hereby authorized and empowered, when deemed necessary by the mayor and council of said city, or upon petition of property owners as hereinafter set out, to improve its streets, avenues, public alleys, sidewalks and other public places or ways, using such material and doing the same in such manner and to such extent as in the discretion of the mayor and council of said city seems proper and necessary, assessing the cost thereof against the real estate abutting upon such improvements, and against railroad or street-railroad companies, if any, having a track lying in or along the street improved. The cost of so improving the roadway or street proper (except street intersections and the cost assessed against railroad companies) is to be assessed against the real estate abutting on each side of such street to be so improved (except that paid by the city as provided herein); and the cost of paving between railroad tracks and two (2) feet on each side thereof is to be assessed against said companies as hereinafter set forth; and the entire cost of improving the sidewalks and constructing curbs, gutters and lateral drains (except cost assessed against railroad companies) is to be assessed against the real estate on the side of the street where said sidewalk, curb, gutter or lateral drain is constructed.
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 3; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
Sec. 10-3. - Petition for improvement; execution, contents; filing, checking improvement.
In each case where the cost of improving the roadway or street proper is assessed against the abutting property and railroad companies, if any, without the city paying any portion thereof except for street intersections, the proceedings for such improvements shall be begun by petition to the mayor and council of said city, signed by the owners of more than fifty (50) percent of the property abutting on the street or streets or portions of street or streets proposed to be improved. For the purpose of said petition, a holder of land under bond for title or similar instrument, a grantor in a security deed, and a fiduciary with power of sale shall be held to be the "owner." A tenant in common may sign as the "owner" of frontage in proportion to his undivided interest. In determining the amount of property abutting on a street, the frontage in lineal feet shall govern; and in figuring said total frontage, areas lying within intersecting streets shall not be counted. Railroad companies having tracks lying on or along any street to be improved, and which may be required to pay a portion of the cost of such improvement as in this act provided, shall not be parties to said petition, though said companies shall have the right to appear at any hearing of said petition and oppose said improvement; nor, for the purpose of determining whether owners of the required amount of property have signed said petition, shall the tracks of [or] rights-of-way of said companies be counted.
Said petition shall set forth the general character of improvement requested, the frontage of the property of each signer abutting on the street petitioned to be improved, and the location and extent of the desired improvement.
The petition shall then be filed with the city clerk; and the city engineer, or his assistants shall carefully check said petition and determine whether the same has been signed by owners of more than fifty (50) percent of such frontage; and the certificate of said city engineer, showing that the petition has been signed by owners of the requisite amount of frontage, shall be prima facie evidence of the fact.
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 4; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
State Law reference— Who may sign petition for improvements, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-357.
Sec. 10-4. - Ordinance providing for improvement, assessment therefor; contents, advertisement; hearing on ordinance; contesting improvement; scope of section.
Upon certification of said petition by the city engineer, and if the mayor and council determines such improvement should be made, or upon a determination by said mayor and council that certain street improvements are deemed necessary, an ordinance shall be introduced and read at a regular meeting of said mayor and council, which ordinance shall provide for the making of such improvements and the assessment generally against the abutting property and against railroad companies, if any, having track or tracks in or along said street, of the cost of such improvement; said ordinance describing the general character of the improvement and the general character of the materials to be used, and making reference for more details to specifications or plans in the office of the city engineer.
Before said ordinance is read a second time and adopted, an advertisement shall be inserted by the city clerk in any newspaper in said city, such advertisement giving notice of the introduction of said ordinance, the location and general character of the proposed improvement, the general character of the material proposed to be used, and the estimated approximate cost to abutting property owners per front foot. Said advertisement shall be publicized at least ten (10) days before the date when said ordinance will be considered by the mayor and council for final passage and adoption. Said advertisement shall further state that the property owners or others interested are notified to appear at the meeting of the mayor and council, giving the time and place thereof, when said ordinance shall be considered by the mayor and council for final passage and adoption.
At said time named in said advertisement, if any property owner or other person desires to make objection to the passage of such ordinance, full opportunity shall be given at said meeting. After such hearing the mayor and council may, in its judgment, after a second reading of said ordinance, adopt and publish the same, as provided in cases of other ordinances of said city. A statement in or at the bottom of said ordinance, over the signature of the city clerk, or any other certificate of said city clerk, that said notice and opportunity for a hearing was duly given, shall be prima facie evidence of that fact.
After the passage of said ordinance all property owners assessed for the cost of said improvement, and all railroad companies, who do not within thirty (30) days after such passage commence legal proceedings to prevent such improvement and the appointment [apportionment] of the cost thereof shall be conclusively presumed to have accepted the terms of said ordinance; and after the expiration of said thirty (30) days it shall also be conclusively presumed that owners of the requisite amount of abutting property signed said petition. There upon said improvement shall be made in substantial accordance with the general plans and specifications referred to in said ordinance.
The provisions of this section relating to assessments for the cost of improving the roadway or street proper, shall be followed also in cases of assessments for other street improvements, when the amount assessed for such other improvements is used as a basis for the issuance of "street improvement bonds," as hereinafter set forth in this act.
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 5; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
Sec. 10-5. - Number of streets, parts thereof included in one petition or ordinance.
Any number of streets or parts of streets may be included in one petition or ordinance and shall be considered as one improvement; but any objection to an improvement shall be made to each street separately. When an improvement is requested as above, the mayor and council shall have the discretion to provide for the entire improvement requested, or a part thereof, or refuse the request altogether.
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 5; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
Sec. 10-6. - Providing for improvement where petition not necessary; assessment limited; contents of ordinance.
Whenever the City of Dalton[,] by its mayor and council, shall deem it necessary to make street improvements as hereinbefore provided, where no petition of property owners is necessary, the cost of such improvements shall be assessed by the mayor and council against the real estate abutting on each side of the street to be so improved; provided, that one-third (⅓) of the cost shall be borne by said city. Where an assessment is made against railroad companies, the amount of such assessment is to be deducted from the total cost, and the remainder is to be prorated granted [sic] against abutting property and the city as above. The entire cost of grading, paving or otherwise improving sidewalks, curbs and gutters (except cost charged against railroad companies) shall be assessed against the real estate abutting on the side of the street on which said sidewalk, curbs or gutters are improved or constructed.
The ordinance providing for the work and making the general assessment shall describe merely the general character of the improvement and the general character of the materials to be used, making reference for more details to specifications or plans in the office of the city engineer or clerk of the City of Dalton.
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 6; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
Sec. 10-7. - Proration, assessment of cost according to frontage and to benefit accruing.
The cost of street improvements made by said city under this act shall be prorated and assessed against the abutting real estate according to its frontage on the street or portion of street improved, and also according to the special benefit accruing to said property by reason of such improvement; provided further that the cost of such paving or improvement for such portion of such street so improved as shall front on cross or intersecting streets to the one being improved shall be assessed to and paid by the city.
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 7; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
Sec. 10-8. - Duty to pave, improve right-of-way of railroad, street-railroad with tracks in streets; authority of city.
Any railroad or street-railroad company now having or that may hereafter have tracks running through or across the streets or street intersections of said city shall be required to macadamize or otherwise improve, as said mayor and council may direct, the width of such track and for a space of two (2) feet on each side of every line of track now in use or that may hereafter be constructed by such company, so as to conform to the general character of such improvement being done contiguous to such track; and said railroad or street-railroad company shall, upon direction of said mayor or council, cause the grade of such track to be raised or lowered so as to conform to the grade of the proposed improvement; the mayor and council being authorized, in its discretion, to improve or contract directly for the improvement of the whole surface of the street or portion of the street determined upon; and to require any such company having or using tracks in such street or portion of such street to pay for the improving of the space therein which such company may be required to improve under this act; the object of this provision being to allow the city to improve or contract for the improving of the whole surface of the street, without giving such railroad company or street-railroad company the option of improving the space to be improved by it, by itself or by a contractor at its instance. The words "railroad company," as used throughout this act, shall include street-railroad company.
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 8; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
Sec. 10-9. - Procedure for assessing for improvements.
The following procedure shall be substantially followed, and the following provisions shall apply, in cases of assessments for street improvement under ordinances hereafter adopted, whether such improvements and assessments be made by the mayor and council upon petition of property owners, or by the mayor and council without petition.
(a)
Construction of improvement. After the expiration of thirty (30) days from the date of the final passage of the ordinance providing for the improvement and making the general assessment, the city shall, as soon as practicable, through its city engineer, or such officers or employees as it may designate[,] proceed to make the improvement, either with its own forces or by contract, as said mayor and council may determine. All improvements made under this act shall be done under direction of the city engineer or his assistants; and the city engineer or his assistants shall prepare and furnish surveys, grades, plans, profiles and other like work, whether the work is to be done by contract or directly by the city. If the work is done under contract, the city shall advertise for bids, but shall not be required to accept the lowest bid where the mayor and council deems the acceptance of a higher bid to be to the city's best interests. On all contracts, the bond required by statute shall be given by the contractor, with surety thereon to be approved by the city mayor and council. The actual work of paving or making other street improvement shall be held in and of itself to constitute notice to abutting property owners, and railroad companies having tracks in the street improved, that such work is being done, and how the cost of such improvement is to be assessed.
(b)
Book to be kept; contents, custody; effect of entry of assessment. The city shall provide and keep a permanent book to be known as "assessment book for street improvements," and shall provide additional volumes as the same are needed. Each volume shall bear a separate number or letter, and the pages thereof shall be numbered consecutively. The books shall be indexed so as to show each street upon which property assessed abuts, and the heading of each page of said book shall show the name and portion of each street upon which assessments for improvements are made. Said book shall contain appropriate columns for a brief description of each parcel of land assessed, the name of the apparent owner, frontage on the street improved, cost of the improvement per square yard or front foot, and amount of assessment apportioned against each parcel of abutting property; the amount, if any, to be paid by the city; and on said book shall be entered the amount, if any, assessed against any railroad company. No error, omission or mistake in regard to the name of the owner shall invalidate any assessment.
Said book shall be kept in the office of the city clerk, shall be a public record, and the entry therein of any assessment shall constitute notice to the public of the lien against the land so assessed, and of the lien against any railroad company; said lien to date and rank as hereinafter set forth.
(c)
Audit of costs; apportionment against abutting properties. When the improvement has been completed, the city engineer, or his assistants, shall audit all bills and the cost of the work, or contract price, figuring the amount to be charged against railroad companies, if any, and the cost chargeable against the city, if any, shall measure the frontages of the several parcels of real estate abutting on the street improved; and the part of the cost of said improvement which under the ordinance providing therefor is to be assessed against railroad companies by said city engineer or his assistants, [shall] be charged against said companies; and the part of the cost to be assessed against abutting property is, by said city engineer or his assistants, to be so apportioned to and charged against each abutting parcel of land and the apparent owner thereof at the time of making such apportionment, in proportion to the frontage on the street or portion of street improved.
(d)
Entry in assessment book, report as to improvements; action on report; errors, omissions in assessment book. The city engineer, or his assistants, shall enter upon the "assessment book for street improvements" the amounts apportioned against the several parcels of real estate, and against railroad companies, if any, the description of each parcel of abutting real estate against which assessment is made, and the other items called for by the appropriate columns in said book, and shall make his report to a regular meeting of the mayor and council, submitting at the same time said assessment book with the entries therein. The report shall show the total cost of the improvement, the amount to be paid by the city, the amount charged against railroad companies, if any, and the total amount charged against abutting property.
The mayor and council shall examine said report and said assessment book, and, if the same appear to be correct, shall adopt a resolution approving said report and the entires [entries] and apportionments in said book, and the adoption of said book, and the adoption of said resolution shall constitute the completion of the assessment lien against each parcel of abutting property and against the property of any railroad company. Said resolution may be adopted on one reading and need not be published. The report of the city engineer shall be recorded by the city clerk with said resolution in the book of ordinances and minutes of the mayor and council; but the approval of the individual assessments against abutting property and against railroad companies, as entered in said assessment book, may be by reference in said resolution to the volume and page of the assessment book, so that said individual assessments need not be recorded in the books of ordinances and minutes. When said assessments have been so approved by resolution of the mayor and council, they shall be construed and presumed to have been made according to special benefits accruing to the property assessed.
Any errors or omissions in the assessment book, whether in the description of property, names, dates, amounts or otherwise, may be corrected at any time, before or after the approval of the city engineer's report, which corrections may be made by resolution of the mayor and council or the mayor and council may, by ordinance or resolution, authorize such corrections to be made by any officer or employee of the city.
(e)
Lien; creation, rank; payment; lien of previous assessments. In cases of all assessments for improvements made under ordinances hereafter adopted by the mayor and council, the ordinance providing for the improvement and making the general assessment against abutting property and against railroad companies shall create an inchoate lien upon said abutting property and upon the property of said railroad companies located in said city; but said lien shall date, rank and become fixed from and on the date of the passage of the resolution approving the entries in the assessment book as above provided, and in the amount set forth in said assessment book. The city clerk shall certify on each page of said assessment book the date of the passage by the mayor and council of the resolution approving said entries. Said assessment (and each installment thereof, if payable in installments) is hereby declared to be a lien against the lots and parcels of land described in said assessment, and against the property of railroad companies in said city co-equal with the lien of other taxes and prior to all other liens, whether then existing or afterwards created, and shall be enforced by execution as hereafter set forth. The liens of assessments for improvements made under ordinances adopted before the passage of this act, and which date from the passage of the original ordinance providing for the work and making the assessment, whether or not the individual apportionment of assessments has been approved by the mayor and council, shall remain valid and binding.
(f)
Statement of assessment. Immediately after the passage of the resolution approving the assessments, the city clerk, or other officer or employee of the city, shall mail to each abutting property owner, and to each railroad company, if any, a statement showing the total amount of such assessment, the frontage, the charge per square yard or lineal foot, the date when said assessments, or the installments (if any), are due, the place where payable, and the terms of payment, and also directing how and when the same shall be paid. Failure to mail or receive such statement shall not affect the validity nor the date of maturity of any assessment.
(g)
Entry of payment, certification of amount unpaid. When any assessment has been paid in full, the city clerk shall make entry on the assessment book for street improvements, showing such payment. Where any assessment is payable in installments, the owner of the property assessed, his grantee, representative, or other person interested therein, shall be entitled to receive from the city clerk a certificate showing the amount of said assessment still unpaid, and said certificate shall be binding upon the city.
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 9; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
State Law reference— Bonds for public contractors, O.C.G.A. §§ 13-10-1, 36-82-100 et seq.
Sec. 10-10. - Due date, interest on assessments.
All assessments shall be due at the time fixed by ordinance of the city, or in the resolution approving the report of the city engineer apportioning the assessments, and shall bear interest (before the issuance of execution) from the date when due to the date of payment, at the rate of seven (7) percent per annum.
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 10; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
Sec. 10-11. - Installment payment of assessments authorized; writing to be executed, interest on installments; default; ordinance, resolution required in certain cases.
Where the improvement is by decision of the mayor and council and not by petition of property owners, and the assessment is for the improvement of the roadway or street proper, and has been assessed against the abutting property, the owners of the abutting property and the railroad company shall have the option of paying the assessment in ten (10) equal installments, as follows: One-tenth cash upon the date when by ordinance or resolution the entire assessment would be due, and the other nine (9) installments payable on the same day of each year thereafter. Such deferred payments (before the issuance of execution) shall bear interest from the date when by ordinance or resolution the entire assessment was due, until said installments are paid, at the rate of seven (7) percent per annum, said interest payable annually on the entire amounts of installments outstanding, whether or not said installments are then due. Upon default in the payment of any installment, or interest, and said default continuing for thirty (30) days, all of said installments shall become due, and executions shall be issued and levied for the total amount of said installments, with interest.
In order to have the right to pay an assessment in installments, the person so electing shall execute a writing, on a form to be furnished by the city, obligating himself or itself to pay said installments as above set forth.
After having signed said election to pay in installments, said installments, or any of them, may be paid before maturity, with accrued interest, by the person against whose property the assessment was made, for his or its representatives or assigns.
In cases of assessments for street improvements after petition of owners of more than fifty (50) percent of the abutting property, where such improvements consist of sidewalks, curbs or gutters, or improvements of the roadway or street proper, persons whose property is assessed for such improvements may have the right to pay in installments as hereinabove provided only in cases where specially provided by ordinance or resolution.
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 11; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
Sec. 10-12. - Execution for unpaid assessment, installment; procedure, form; docket to be kept; interest upon executions.
Whenever any assessment against abutting property or any railroad company shall become due, or any installment thereof shall become due and remain unpaid for a period of thirty (30) days, the clerk of the City of Dalton shall issue an execution against the parcel of real estate assessed, or against any real estate of said railroad company in said city, for the entire amount of said assessment, with interest and costs, and said execution shall be levied by the levying officer of said city in the manner now provided by the charter of said city, and the same shall be advertised once a week for four (4) weeks, and sold as now provided in said charter.
All existing provisions of the charter of said city and all general laws of said state relating to sales to enforce assessments, deeds to the purchaser, right of the city to purchase at the sale, redemption by owner, resales by the city, admissibility in evidence of assessment deeds, presumptions as to validity, and other similar provisions shall be applicable to proceedings to enforce all liens for street improvements made in pursuance of the provisions of this act; provided that all executions for such assessments, whether to enforce assessment liens now existing or hereafter made, shall be issued by the city clerk.
The form of said execution shall be sufficient when the same is signed by the clerk of the City of Dalton in the name of the City of Dalton, is directed to the levying officer, describes the land to be levied upon, states the amount of assessment due, the name of the street improved, the date of the original ordinance providing for the improvement and making the general assessment, and is made returnable by the levying officer to the clerk of said city ninety (90) days after issuance. Said execution may name as owner of the property levied on either the apparent owner thereof at the date of the resolution approving the assessment, or the apparent owner or anyone claiming an interest in the land at the date of issuing the execution.
The city clerk shall keep an execution docket on which executions issued for street improvements shall be entered, with the date thereof, time and when delivered, and the proceedings had thereunder.
Executions shall bear interest at seven (7) percent from [the] date when the assessment becomes due.
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 12; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
State Law reference— Lien for assessment for street improvements, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-20; execution, levy and sale, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-21; deeds as evidence, O.C.G.A. § 44-2-23; issuance of executions for paving streets or alleys, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-358.
Sec. 10-13. - Contesting execution; procedure; application of section; effect of election to pay in installments.
Any person, including any railroad company, against whose property an execution for street improvement assessment has been issued and levied, whether the lien therefor arose before or arises after the passage of this act, shall have the right to file with the levying officer an affidavit of illegality, with bond approved by the levying officer, denying that the whole or any part of said assessment is due, denying special benefit, or setting up any other legal defense, stating the specific grounds of such illegality, and stating the amount, if any, admitted to be due. The amount admitted to be due shall be paid to the levying officer before the affidavit is received and the affidavit and bond received for the balance; and all such affidavits so received shall be returned to the superior court of Whitfield County and there tried, and the issue determined as in other cases of illegality, subject to all penalties provided by law in cases of illegality for delay. The bond provided for in this section shall be conditioned the same as bonds in other illegality proceedings.
This right to file affidavits of illegality shall apply whether the street improvement for which the execution was issued was made with or without petition of property owners, and whether or not the right to file said illegality be provided for by ordinance of said city. Provided, however, that where the owner or apparent owner of the real estate has in writing elected to pay said assessment in installments, as hereinbefore provided, such election shall be conclusive, and such owner or apparent owner, his or its heirs, representatives, successors, or assigns shall have no right, by affidavit of illegality or otherwise, to contest the validity of the assessment, nor the amount of such assessment set forth in the instrument electing to pay in installments; but where credits are claimed on the original assessment, such affidavit of illegality may be filed to contest the accuracy of the amount set forth in the execution.
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 13; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
Sec. 10-14. - Street improvement bonds; issuance, sale; pledge of city's credit therefor; term, form, contents.
The City of Dalton is hereby authorized to issue and sell street improvement bonds without the assent of two-thirds (⅔) of the qualified voters at an election called thereon, but upon a majority vote of the members of its governing body, which bonds are to be issued and sold in the following manner, and with the following limitations: An ordinance shall first be adopted, pursuant to the provisions of section 3 [10-2] and section 4 [10-3] of this act providing for the street improvement and assessing the cost generally against abutting property and the property of railroad companies, if any, having tracks in the streets. When the street improvement has been completed and the mayor and council has approved the report of the city engineer fixing the amounts of the several assessments against the separate parcels of abutting property and the property of such railroad companies, the mayor and council may, in its discretion, by ordinance or ordinances, provide for the issuance and sale of street improvement bonds, which bonds shall be direct obligations of said city, and the full faith, credit and taxing power of said city shall be pledged to the payment of the principal and interest thereof. Said ordinance or ordinances shall specify what amounts of bonds are to be assessed, for what purpose or purposes, what interest they are to bear, how much principal and interest to be paid annually, and when to be fully paid off. Except as otherwise limited herein, the terms and forms of said bonds shall be such as may be provided in the ordinance or ordinances adopted by the mayor and council.
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 14; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
Sec. 10-15. - Limitations upon street improvement bonds.
Such [street improvement] bonds shall be issued with these limitations:
First: The terms of such bonds shall in no case exceed five (5) years; and at least one-fifth of each issue, with the interest thereon, shall mature and be paid off yearly.
Second: The amount of each issue shall be limited to the amount assessed by said municipality upon each improvement. Any number of streets improved under the same ordinance, whether or not said streets actually connect, shall be considered one improvement.
Third: Said bonds shall be issued only for the grading, curbing, guttering, or paving or repaving of streets or portions of streets or sidewalks, or for the removal of utilities.
Fourth: The interest thereon shall not exceed six (6) percent per annum. Said interest may be paid annually, semiannually, or quarterly, as the mayor and council may by ordinance provide.
Fifth: Said bonds may be issued without regard to the amount of other outstanding debts or bonds of said municipality.
Sixth: Said bonds are not to be issued except in case such grading, curbing, guttering, pavement, repavement or the removal of utilities has been petitioned for in writing by the owners of more than fifty (50) percent of the property abutting on the street paved or repaved.
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 14; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
Sec. 10-16. - Tax to pay principal, interest of bonds, required.
The City of Dalton, before or at any time of issuing any said [street improvement] bonds, or incurring any bonded indebtedness pursuant to this act, shall provide for the assessment and collection of an annual tax, sufficient in amount to pay the principal and interest of said debt within five (5) years from the date of the incurring of said indebtedness.
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 15; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
Sec. 10-17. - Disposition of funds from sale of bonds, collection of assessments, tax levy.
The funds derived from the sale of any of the street improvement bonds herein provided for shall be used to pay the cost or contract price of making the street improvement for which a particular series of bonds was issued.
After paying such cost or contract price of the particular improvement, the surplus, if any, shall be placed and kept in one separate and special account, to be known as [the] "special street improvement bond fund," and into said fund shall also be paid all surplus, if any, from the sale of all other similar street improvement bonds. There shall also be paid into said "special street improvement bond fund" the amounts collected on all assessments and installments of assessments, with interest thereon, which were included in the total amounts of assessments for street improvements for which any of said bonds were issued to pay. Such special fund shall be used only to pay the principal and interest of any and all issues of such bonds as the same mature, and any expenses and court costs directly connected with the validation and legal approval of said bonds.
It is the intention hereof, however, that said bonds and the interest thereon shall be payable as they mature, as direct obligations of said city, whether or not the amount of collections of said assessments be sufficient therefor; and to secure such prompt payment, the annual tax in this act provided, or so much thereof as may be necessary, shall be levied, collected and devoted to that purpose.
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 16; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
Sec. 10-18. - Misuse of "special street improvement bond fund."
Any officer or employee of said city who shall apply any portion of said "special street improvement bond fund" to any purpose other than those above specified shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 27-2506 of the Code of Georgia [O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3].
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 17; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
Sec. 10-19. - Bonds declared valid and binding; validation authorized.
When bonds are authorized, issued and sold in substantial compliance with the provisions of this act, and the charter and ordinances of said city, they shall be valid and binding obligations of said city, whether or not they be declared valid through judicial proceedings; but the mayor and council may also direct that said bonds be validated by order of court in the manner now or hereafter provided by the laws of Georgia.
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 18; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
State Law reference— Validation of street improvement bonds, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-33; validation of bonds by municipality generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-82-20 et seq.
Sec. 10-20. - Minor repairs of paved sidewalks authorized; assessment, collection of cost; contest of execution.
Where any paved sidewalk in said city becomes, in the opinion of the city engineer, defective and dangerous for want of repair, and the cost of such repair does not exceed at any one time the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00), the city engineer may proceed at once, without ordinance or resolution of the mayor and council, to have said sidewalk repaired, either with the city's own forces or by contract with an independent contractor.
The cost or contract price of making such repairs shall be charged against the abutting real estate, and constitute a lien thereon from the date of completing the work. If the amount of the assessment is not paid within thirty (30) days of the completion of the work, the city clerk shall issue an execution against the abutting real estate and the owner thereof, which execution shall be enforced as in cases of other assessments for street improvements. A certificate from the city engineer setting forth the facts and describing the abutting property shall be sufficient warrant for the issuance of said execution.
Assessments for repairs under this section need not be entered on the assessment book for street improvements, but all papers connected therewith shall be kept by the city clerk in appropriate files.
Any person whose real estate is assessed for sidewalk repairs under this section shall have the right to contest the necessity of such improvement, or the amount of the assessment, or make other legal defense, by affidavit of illegality, in the manner heretofore provided in this act.
The lien for repairs to dangerous sidewalks made under this section shall not affect bona fide purchasers or lienholders without notice unless execution has been issued and entered upon the general execution docket of Whitfield County.
(1923 Ga. Laws, page 593, § 19; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2325, § 1)
Secs. 10-21—10-30. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - STREET IMPROVEMENTS[16]

Footnotes:
--- (16) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance of August 17, 1987, §§ 1—12, which did not specifically amend the charter, and which is in addition to and cumulative of Div. 1 of this Art. X, has been set out herein as §§ 10-31—10-41 at the discretion of the editor on request of the city. Certain nonsubstantive changes have been made in order to conform with the alphanumeric format of the charter and Code, and the directory provisions have been omitted.

Sec. 10-31. - Short title.
This act may be cited as "the City of Dalton Street Improvement Ordinance of 1987."
(Ord. of 8-17-1987, § 1)
Sec. 10-32. - Authority to improve streets and public places.
The City of Dalton, by its mayor and council, is hereby authorized and empowered to establish and change the grade of any streets, drives, avenues, alleys, and other public places in the City of Dalton and to improve the same by engineering, grading, draining, paving, curb and guttering, and installing utilities in the same whenever in its judgment the public convenience and welfare may require such improvements subject only to the limitations described in this act.
(Ord. of 8-17-1987, § 3)
Sec. 10-33. - Petition for improvement.
If the owners of all of the front feet of the land liable to assessment for any such improvement shall petition the City of Dalton for such improvement of any street or part of street, alley, drive, or avenue, or other public place described in such petition, the character of the improvement desired, the width of the same and the materials preferred by petitioners for such improvement, and the mayor and council shall determine said street improvements to be in the public interest, it shall thereupon be the duty of said City of Dalton by its mayor and council to promptly cause the said improvements to be made in accordance with the prayer of said petition. Provided, however, that two (2) or more streets may be treated as one street, and the improvement thereof, as in this act provided, shall constitute one project and shall be dealt with accordingly as to resolutions, ordinance or petition of property owners or other proceedings.
(Ord. of 8-17-1987, § 4)
Sec. 10-34. - Assessment of costs.
The lots, pieces, or parcels of land fronting and abutting upon both sides of said improvement shall be charged with the cost thereof, and each property owner is to pay his pro rata portion of the entire cost on his particular street or streets improvement in one project according to the linear frontage of the property owned by each property owner on the portion of the streets improved.
(Ord. of 8-17-1987, § 5)
Sec. 10-35. - Enactment of ordinances to implement provisions of article.
Whenever the petition provided for in section 10-3 of this act is presented, the City of Dalton, by its mayor and council, shall then have the power to enact all ordinances and to establish all such rules and regulations as may be necessary to require the owners of all property subject to assessment to pay the entire cost of such improvement, and to cause to be put in and constructed all water, gas or sewer pipe in and underneath the streets, drives, avenues, alleys and all other public places where such public improvements are to be made, and all cost and expense for making such connection shall be taxed against such property and shall be included and made a part of the general assessment to cover the cost of such improvements.
(Ord. of 8-17-1987, § 6)
Sec. 10-36. - Contract terms and conditions; bond, etc.
The City of Dalton, by its mayor and council, shall adopt a resolution expressing the determination of said city to proceed with the improvement, stating the material to be used and the manner of construction and defining the extent, character and width of improvement, and other such matters as may be necessary to instruct the agent or engineer of said city in the performance of his duties in preparing for such improvements the necessary plan, plats, profiles, specifications and estimates. The resolution shall set forth any such reasonable terms and conditions as the City of Dalton shall deem proper to impose with reference to letting the contract and the provisions therefor, and the city shall by said resolutions provide that the contractor shall execute to the city a good and sufficient bond in an amount to be stated in such resolution, conditioned for the full and faithful performance of the work and the performance of the contract, and for the protection of the city and all property owners interested against any loss or damage by reason of the negligence or improper execution of the work, and may require a bond in an amount to be stated in such resolution for the maintenance of good condition of such improvement for a period of not less than one year from the time of its condition of such improvement for a period of not less than one year from the time of its completion [sic], or both, in the discretion of the city.
(Ord. of 8-17-1987, § 7)
Sec. 10-37. - Appraisal, assessment and apportionment of costs; hearing.
As soon as the contract or contracts are awarded and the cost of such improvements, which shall include all other expenses incurred by the city incident to such improvements in addition to the contract price for the work and materials, is ascertained, the City of Dalton, by its mayor and council, shall[,] by resolution, appoint a board of appraisers to appraise and apportion the cost and expense of the same to the several tracts of land abutting on such improvement.
Within ten (10) days from the date of the resolution appointing said board, the said board shall file a written report of the appraisal, assessment and apportionment of such expense and cost of the several lots and tracts of land abutting on such street, streets, alleys, avenue, or other public place so improved, with the clerk of said city. When said report shall have been returned and filed, the city shall appoint a time for the holding of a session of the mayor and council, or shall designate a regular meeting of its mayor and council for the hearing of any complaints or objections that may be made concerning the said appraisement, apportionment and assessment as to any such lots or tracts of land abutting on said improvement, and notice of such session for the said hearing shall be published by the clerk of said city at least once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks in a daily or weekly newspaper having a general circulation in said city, and said notice shall provide for an inspection of such return by any property owner or other party interested in such return. The time fixed for said hearings shall not be less than five (5) nor more than ten (10) days from the last publication. The said mayor and council at said session shall have power to review and correct said appraisement, apportionment and assessment and to hear objections to the same and to confirm the same either as made by said board or as corrected by said mayor and council.
Assessments in conformity to said appraisement and apportionment as confirmed by said mayor and council shall be payable in ten (10) equal installments, and shall bear interest until paid, payable, in each year at such time as the several installments of the assessments are made payable each year. The said mayor and council shall by ordinance levy assessments in accordance with the said appraisement and apportionment as so confirmed against the several tracts of land liable therefore [therefor] and shall cause said appraisement and apportionment to be recorded on the mortgage records of Whitfield County duly certified as correct by the clerk of council; and when so recorded, the charges assessed against the various parcels of land shall become a first lien thereon, superior to all other liens except those to the State of Georgia, the County of Whitfield, and the City of Dalton.
(Ord. of 8-17-1987, § 8)
Sec. 10-38. - Assessments payable in installments; exception; due dates.
The first installment of said assessments, together with interest to that date upon the whole shall be due and payable, one year from the date of the ordinance levying assessments, and one installment with the yearly interest upon the amounts remaining unpaid shall be payable on the anniversary date of assessment ordinance in each succeeding year until all shall be paid. Said ordinance shall also provide that the owners of the property so assessed shall have the privilege of paying the amounts of their respective assessment together with all interests due at any time and relieve their property from the lien of said assessment, which money shall be paid to the City of Dalton.
(Ord. of 8-17-1987, § 9)
Sec. 10-39. - Lien on property; created; co-equal.
The special assessment and each installment therefore [therefor] and the interest thereon are hereby declared to be a lien against the lots and tracts of land so assessed from the date of the ordinance levying the same co-equal with the lien of other taxes and prior to and superior to all other liens against such lots or tracts, and such liens shall continue until such assessment and interest thereon shall be fully paid, but unmatured installments shall not be deemed to be within the terms of any general covenant or warranty.
(Ord. of 8-17-1987, § 10)
Sec. 10-40. - Issuance of bonds.
The City of Dalton, by its mayor and council, after the passage of said ordinance confirming and levying said assessments shall by resolution provide for the issuance of bonds in the aggregate amount of such assessment, bearing a date fifteen (15) days after the passage of the ordinance levying the said assessments, and of such denominations as the City of Dalton, by its mayor and council, shall determine[,] which bond or bonds shall in no event become a liability of the City of Dalton, or its mayor and council issuing same.
One-fifth in amount of any such series of bond with the interest upon the whole series to that date shall be payable yearly from the anniversary of the assessment date next succeeding the maturity of the first installment of the assessments, and interest, and one-fifth thereof with the yearly interest upon the whole amount remaining unpaid shall be payable on the said anniversary date from their date until maturity, payable annually and shall be designated as "Street Improvement Bonds," and shall on the face thereof recite the street or streets, part of street or streets or other public places for the improvement of which they have been issued and that are payable solely from assessments which have been levied upon the lots and tracts of land benefited by said improvements under authority of this act. Said bonds shall be signed by the City of Dalton, by the mayor, and attested by the clerk of council, and shall have the impression of the corporate seal of such city thereon and all bonds issued by authority of this act shall be payable to bearer at such place either within or without the State of Georgia as shall be designated by said mayor and council. Said bonds shall be sold at not less than par, and the proceeds thereof applied to the payment of the contract price and other expenses by the said mayor and council. Said bonds may be registered by the clerk of council in a book to be provided for that purpose and certificates of registration by the city clerk shall be indorsed upon each of said bonds.
(Ord. of 8-17-1987, § 11)
Sec. 10-41. - Payment of assessments; record and use of funds.
The assessments provided for and levied under the provisions of this act shall be payable by the persons owning the said lots or tracts of land as the several installments become due, together with the interest thereon, to the City of Dalton, who shall give their proper receipt for such payment. It shall be the duty of the clerk of council to keep an accurate account of all such collections made and such collections shall be kept in a special fund to be used and applied for the payment of such bonds and the interest thereon and for no other purpose.
(Ord. of 8-17-1987, § 12)
