Chapter 14 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to adopt technical codes, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(12); construction standards generally, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.; minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-2025; enforcement of minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-2026.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Introduction.
(a)
Purpose. The building regulations and building contractor certification process as herein set forth have made for the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, morals, general welfare, convenience and prosperity of the citizens of the city. The regulations and requirements provided by this chapter have been designated to protect the interests of the residents and property owners of the city and promote equity in the provision of city services.
(b)
Scope. This chapter:
(1)
Regulates the construction of buildings and structures and the persons who provide construction services for a fee;
(2)
Creates a mechanism for regulating persons who provide construction services for a fee and establishes the rules for construction;
(3)
Defines certain terms used herein;
(4)
Provides for the method of administration, appeal and amendment, enforcement, duties and the provision of penalties for violation.
(c)
Conflict. Where the provisions of this chapter are in conflict with other ordinances, the most restrictive provisions shall be enforced.
(Code 1998, § 18-101)
Sec. 14-2. - Definitions.
The following definitions are given in addition to those given in the IBC and IRC:
Beginning of construction means one day after a building permit is issued, whether or not actual work has been initiated; the beginning date for construction.
Building official or inspector means the designated representative of the city charged with the authority to enforce within the city limits the provisions of the building and construction codes and render interpretations of these same codes consistent with the intent and purpose of the codes.
Certificate of occupancy means a certificate of occupancy is granted by the building inspector prior to the connection of permanent electric service.
Code enforcement officer or official means the designated representative of the city charged with the responsibility of inspecting and reviewing health and environmental matters throughout the city, including, but not limited to, building and construction concerns.
Contractor means any person desiring to engage in the business of building, gas, electrical, mechanical, plumbing, sign, or swimming pool contracting within the city limits.
General contractor means any contractor that uses subcontractors or employs more than two other persons in the construction work projects conducted in the city.
Individual contractor means a contractor that does not subcontract on any of his or her work projects and employs no more than two additional persons in his or her work projects conducted in the city.
Stop work order means a citation issued by the building inspector to immediately halt construction activities on a site.
(Code 1998, § 18-102)
Sec. 14-3. - Violation and enforcement.
(a)
Enforcement officer. The city manager shall provide for the enforcement of this chapter by appointing the building official, who shall, jointly with the code enforcement officer, have the right to withhold building permits. The building official or agent thereof shall also have the right to notify the chief of police in the event that any individual is in violation of this chapter.
(b)
Penalty for violation. Any person violating the conditions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to punishment according to the general penalties described in section 1-8.
(Code 1998, § 18-110)
Secs. 14-4—14-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BUILDING INSPECTOR AND CODE ENFORCEMENT STAFF

Sec. 14-23. - Appointment of building inspector.
The inspections required within the city shall be administered by the city manager and conducted by the building inspector or agent thereof who shall have the power to enforce his/her duties as stated in this chapter. The actual inspection of a building as it pertains to this chapter shall be conducted by the building inspector, or his designated qualified and certified inspector.
(Code 1998, § 18-103)
Sec. 14-24. - Duties.
The city code enforcement shall be conducted by the code enforcement officer, code enforcement staff, and the building inspector. The building inspector shall conduct inspections and oversee all general code enforcement actions. The code enforcement officer and staff, as well as the building inspector, shall act as the city's representatives while conducting the following duties:
(1)
To enforce the city's technical codes.
(2)
To approve or disapprove within a reasonable time the building permit applications, and plans, specifications, etc., filed with the clerk's office.
(3)
To answer questions relative to this chapter.
(4)
To issue permits and collect fees.
(Code 1998, § 18-104)
Secs. 14-25—14-51. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TECHNICAL CODES AND STANDARDS

Sec. 14-52. - Adoption of International Building Code.
The city adopts by reference the requirements of the International Building Code (IBC), 2006 edition, as published by the International Code Council (ICC), for regulating and governing the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance, removal, and demolition of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected to or attached to such buildings or structures. Detached one- and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses) not more than three stories above grade in height with a separate means of egress and their accessory structures shall comply with the International Residential Code (IRC), 2006 edition. New editions of both the IBC and the IRC are promulgated by the ICC every three years and will be automatically adopted by the city upon publication. A copy of each will be maintained in the office of the building inspector and will be available for review by the public during normal business hours.
Sec. 14-53. - Revisions.
The following sections of the International Building Code are hereby revised to reflect specific design criteria for this locality:
Section R101.1. Insert "the City of Darien."
Table R301.2(1). Insert:
Ground snow load: Zero.
Wind speed: 130 mph.
Seismic design category: B.
Subject to damage from:
Weathering (concrete): Negligible.
Frost line depth: 12" below undisturbed ground surface.
Termites: Very heavy.
Winter design temp: Use 97.5% values from appendix D of the International Plumbing Code.
Ice barrier underlayment required: No.
Flood hazards: See FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map dated June 3, 1988 for zone V and A locations.
Air freezing index: 50 (cumulative degree days below 32F).
Mean annual temp: 67.5F.
Note: All footnotes to table R301.2(1) apply.
Sec. 14-54. - Reserved.
Sec. 14-55. - Adoption of NFPA Life Safety Code and NFPA 1 Uniform Fire Code.
The city hereby adopts by reference the requirements of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Life Safety Code, 2009 edition and NFPA 1 Uniform Fire Code, 2009 Edition. A copy of each will be maintained in the office of the building inspector and will be available for review by the public during normal business hours.
(Ord. of 5-19-2009(2))
Secs. 14-56—14-79. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - PERMITTING AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY

Sec. 14-80. - Permits required.
All permits issued by the building inspector for construction in the city shall be prominently displayed in full view from the nearest public right-of-way at the site of the construction for which the permit is issued.
(1)
Building permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter, repair, remove or demolish a building, swimming pool, manufactured home or structure, or to commence same without first making application to the building inspector and obtaining the required permit for the work.
(2)
Electrical permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to perform any electrical work or wiring which is regulated by this Code, or cause any such work to be done without first making application to the building inspector and obtaining the required permit for the work.
(3)
Gas permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to install, enlarge, alter, repair, move or replace a gas system, the installation of which is regulated by this Code, or cause any such work to be done without first making application to the building inspector and obtaining the required permit for the work.
(4)
Mechanical permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to install, enlarge, alter, repair, move, or replace a mechanical system, the installation of which is regulated by this Code, or cause any such work to be done without first making application to the building inspector and obtaining the required permit for work.
(5)
Plumbing permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to connect any plumbing work with any sewer, sanitary or storm, septic tank or sewage disposal system of any kind, or install fixtures or appliances in new or existing systems, structures or premises, or repair, or add to any existing plumbing which is regulated by this Code, or cause any such work to be done without first making application to the building inspector and obtaining the required permit for the work.
(6)
Compliance. No permit listed under this section shall be issued or renewed by the city until the applicant or permittee demonstrates compliance with all provisions of this Code, city ordinances, and state and county laws, rules and/or regulations.
(7)
Exemptions. For normal maintenance and repair related to upkeep of existing buildings, structures, electrical, gas, plumbing, conditioned air and low voltage systems, it will be the final decision of the building inspector as to the need of a permit for repairs.
(Code 1998, § 18-106)
Sec. 14-81. - Building permit, other requirements.
(a)
Building permit required. Application for a building permit must be made by the owner, or his agent, accompanied by two sets of plans or blueprints; together with specifications of the work to be done. All applications for a building permit for building a new building or any additions must be accompanied by a plan showing size of the lot and portion of the lot to be built on and shall show that the lot has been surveyed by a licensed surveyor, or that the lot stakes have been placed in position in accordance with such a survey. No work of any nature shall be started until a building permit has been issued. A permit must be secured for all new construction, all alterations and all repairs. No permit shall be issued until the prescribed fees for same have been paid. The permit fees shall be established as by ordinance or resolution of the mayor and council, and made available for public examination in the office of the city clerk. All permit fees are nonrefundable.
(b)
Restrooms, waste containers required. All construction sites are required to have restroom facilities as well as sufficient containers for collecting all waste and debris created from the construction activities. No inspection shall be conducted until the applicant has provided proof of compliance with these requirements. If during construction such facilities are not provided on site, the building inspector will issue a stop work order until such compliance is achieved.
(c)
Right to appeal. Any applicant for a building permit shall have the right to appeal to the mayor and council should the building inspector refuse to approve the issuance of a permit.
(d)
Time limitation. Construction must begin within 180 days from the date of permit issuance, otherwise the permit is null and void.
(Code 1998, § 18-107)
Sec. 14-82. - Certificate of occupancy.
(a)
Building occupancy. A new building shall not be occupied or a change made in occupancy or the nature of the use of a building or part of a building until after the building inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy. Permanent electrical service shall not be connected or reconnected until the certificate of occupancy has been issued.
(b)
Temporary occupancy. A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion or portions of a building which may safely be occupied prior to final completion of the building. A fee as required in this chapter must be paid prior to issuance of each temporary certificate of occupancy. Permanent electrical service may be connected at the issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy.
(c)
Existing buildings. A certificate of occupancy for any existing building may be obtained by applying to the building inspector and supplying the information and data necessary to determine compliance with this Code for the occupancy intended. Where necessary, in the opinion of the building inspector, two sets of detailed drawings, or a general inspection, or both may be required. When, upon examination and inspection, it is found that the building conforms to the provisions of this Code for such occupancy, and the appropriate fees as required have been paid, a certificate of occupancy shall be issued.
(d)
Change of occupancy. No change of occupancy or use shall be made in a building hereafter erected or altered that is not consistent with the last issued certificate of occupancy for such building, unless a permit is secured. In the case of an existing building, no change of occupancy that would bring it under some special provision of this article shall be made, unless the building inspector finds, upon inspection, that such building conforms substantially to the provisions of the law with respect to the proposed new occupancy and use and issues a certificate of occupancy thereof. The use of a building shall not be deemed to have changed because of temporary vacancy or change of ownership or tenancy.
(Code 1998, § 18-108)
Secs. 14-83—14-107. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION

Sec. 14-108. - Regulation of contractors.
(a)
Registration required. Any person desiring to engage in the business of building, gas, electrical, mechanical, plumbing, sign, or swimming pool contracting within the city, shall first make application for and obtain the proper license from the city manager or his designee.
(b)
Annual registration for contractors. Registration for contractors in the city must be renewed annually. The term of the registration shall correspond to the city's fiscal year. When applying for registration, the following information is required:
(1)
Contractor documentation required; proof of state certification. Any electrical, plumbing, conditioned air, gas, or low voltage contractor requesting registration in the city shall provide proof of state licensing showing that they have passed the required competency examination and are licensed to engage in the type of work for which they are applying and under what classification they are licensed.
(2)
List of subcontractors. All subcontractors associated with the registered contractor must be listed in the registration file for the registered contractor. Any electrical, plumbing, conditioned air, gas, or low voltage technician subcontracting with a contractor requesting registration in the city shall provide proof of state licensing showing that they have passed the required competency examination and are licensed to engage in the type of work for which they are applying and under what classification they are licensed.
(Code 1998, § 18-109)
State Law reference— Municipality has authority to implement and enforce requirement of a locally issued contractor's license, O.C.G.A. § 43-41-7(c).
Secs. 14-109—14-129. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - HOUSE NUMBERING

Sec. 14-130. - Designation of street numbers.
Street numbers for dwelling units and places of business on all public and private streets shall be assigned by the city building inspector or his designee.
(Code 1998, § 22-100)
Sec. 14-131. - Posting of designated street address.
(a)
The owner or occupant or person in charge of any dwelling or building to which a number has been assigned will be notified in writing by the city clerk of the number assigned to the same.
(b)
Within 60 days after the receipt of such written notification from the city clerk, the owner, occupant or person in charge of a dwelling or building to which a number has been assigned shall affix the number, of a minimum of three inches in size, to the dwelling or building in a conspicuous manner in a conspicuous place on the main dwelling or building.
(c)
It shall be the duty of such owner, occupant or person in charge thereof upon affixing the newly assigned number to remove any different number that might be mistaken for or confused with the newly assigned number.
(d)
Each principal building shall display the assigned number to the frontage on which the front entrance is located. In case a principal building is occupied by more than one business or family dwelling unit, each separate front entrance shall display a separate number.
(Code 1998, § 22-102)
Sec. 14-132. - New structures.
(a)
House numbers will be assigned by the city building inspector to each proposed lot or tract on the surveyor's copies of the final subdivision plats at the time plats are submitted.
(b)
No building permit shall be issued until the dwelling or building address is determined and a number has been assigned. No certificate of occupancy of any principal building erected or repaired will be issued until the proper house number has been assigned and displayed.
(Code 1998, § 22-103)
Sec. 14-133. - Point of beginning numbering.
(a)
Dwellings and buildings shall be numbered north from the Darien River bank at the southern extremity of the city, and east and west starting at North Way/Walton Street.
(b)
A house number shall be allowed for every 60 feet of street front with numbers assigned to each 60 feet of corner lots on both street frontages, however, numbers shall be assigned only to the frontage on which a dwelling or building faces the street.
(c)
The dwellings or buildings shall be numbered using the decimal system, that is 100 numbers to each block.
(d)
The north-south streets shall be numbered with even numbers on the east side of the streets and odd numbers on the west side of the streets.
(e)
East-west streets shall be numbered with even numbers on the north side of the streets and odd numbers on the south side of the streets.
(Code 1998, § 22-105)
