Chapter 26 - COURTS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Cities authorized to establish municipal courts, Ga. Const. art. VI, § I, ¶ I; cash bonds in cases involving offenses against municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-10; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 26-1. - Judge's term; expiration thereof.
The judge of the municipal court shall be appointed by the mayor and city council. The term of the judge shall be for a period of four years, and shall expire upon the judge being removed from office by the mayor and council or until another judge is appointed at the end of the current judge's term.
Sec. 26-2. - Bailiff.
(a)
The bailiff of the municipal court shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the city council.
(b)
The duties of the bailiff shall consist generally of seeing that the courtroom is in proper condition for sessions of court, of assisting in keeping order while court is in session, and of doing such other acts of assistance as may be required of him by the judge of the court and the city clerk.
(Code 1998, § 5-101)
Sec. 26-3. - Record of cases.
A record of all cases heard in the municipal court for violation of this Code or other municipal ordinances shall be kept in a suitable bound volume by the city clerk. Such record shall contain the name of the defendant, the nature of the offense charged, the final disposition of the case, and the date of final disposition.
(Code 1998, § 5-102)
Sec. 26-4. - Service of summons.
(a)
Any person charged with violating any city ordinance shall receive notice by service of a summons as herein provided. Such summons may be issued by any city law enforcement officer, code enforcement officer, or other city official when so designated by the judge. The summons shall be directed to the accused and shall distinctly state the offense charged, and the day, hour, and place of trial, requiring the accused to appear before the judge of the municipal court to answer the accusation made. Service of the summons shall be made by any city law enforcement officer, code enforcement officer, or other city official when so designated by the judge, either by serving the accused personally or by leaving a copy at his dwelling, house, or usual place of abode with some person of suitable age and discretion therein, or by delivering a copy of the summons and complaint to an agent designated by appointment or by law to receive service of process.
(b)
In the case of a summons issued for violation of laws or ordinances relating to the parking of motor vehicles, such summons may be directed to an unknown person as owner of an automobile designated in the summons and may be served upon such person by leaving a copy in or attached to such automobile.
(Code 1998, § 5-103)
Sec. 26-5. - Failure to obey summons or subpoena.
Any person who fails to appear at the time and place set out in any summons or subpoena served upon him shall be guilty of contempt of court and upon conviction thereof shall be punished for same.
(Code 1998, § 5-104)
Sec. 26-6. - Arrest and bond.
When a police officer has arrested any person for violation of any provision of this Code or any municipal ordinance and a trial cannot be had immediately, the clerk of the municipal court may take a cash bond not exceeding the maximum fine for the offense, or a bond with a good security, for the appearance of such person before the judge of the municipal court. If such person fails or refuses to give a bond, the officer may confine him or her in the city jail until a trial can be held.
(Code 1998, § 5-105)
Sec. 26-7. - Forfeiture of bond.
Upon the failure of a person to appear in the municipal court at the time and place fixed by the summons, the judge of said court shall enter a judgment of forfeiture on any cash bond, or, in the case of a security bond, shall pass a rule requiring the principal and surety on such bond to show cause on the date named therein, which date shall not be less than ten days from the passage of such ruling, why he should not be required to pay the amount of said bond. If no sufficient cause is shown, the judge shall enter the judgment against the principal and surety for the amount of the forfeited bond and shall direct the city clerk to issue execution thereon.
(Code 1998, § 5-106)
Sec. 26-8. - Court costs.
The costs which shall be charged against a defendant in the municipal court in the event of his conviction shall be established as by ordinance or resolution of the mayor and council, made available for public examination in the office of the city clerk, and be paid into the city treasury.
(Code 1998, § 5-107)
Sec. 26-9. - Collection of fines.
When directed by the judge of the municipal court, the city clerk shall issue executions for fines imposed by said court, including the costs, which executions may be levied upon any goods or chattels, lands or tenements of the person so fined.
(Code 1998, § 5-108)
Sec. 26-10. - Solicitor.
The city manager shall select and appoint on behalf of the city a qualified attorney to serve as solicitor in the municipal court of the city. The duties of the solicitor are:
(1)
To attend each session of the municipal court unless excused by the judge thereof and to remain until the business of the city is disposed of;
(2)
To aid the municipal court judge in organizing the court as he may require;
(3)
To draw up all indictments or accusations, when necessary;
(4)
To attend before the appellate courts when any ordinance violation case emanating from the municipal court of the city is tried, to argue the same, and to perform any other duty therein which the interest of the city may require;
(5)
To advise law enforcement and code enforcement officers concerning the sufficiency of evidence, warrants, and similar matters relating to the investigation and prosecution of Code violations;
(6)
To represent the city prosecuting all charges brought or initiated by any city employee acting in the course of his or her employment with the city;
(7)
To perform such other duties as are or may be required by law or which necessarily appertain to their office.
The appointment shall be made for a term consisting of one calendar year or portion thereof. The compensation and other terms of employment shall be set forth in a contract between the city and the solicitor.
(Ord. of 4-17-2008(2), § 26-10)
Sec. 26-11. - Deputy municipal court judge.
The deputy municipal court judge of the municipal court shall be appointed by the mayor and city council. The term of the deputy municipal court judge shall be for a period of four years, and shall expire upon the deputy municipal court judge being removed from office by the mayor and council or until another deputy municipal court judge is appointed at the end of the current deputy municipal court judge's term. The deputy municipal court judge may be removed from office as set out in section 5.11 of the Darien City Charter. The deputy municipal court judge shall be assigned work from time to time by the municipal court judge with the consent of the city manager. Compensation of the deputy municipal court judge shall be set by the city manager.
(Ord. of 2-17-2009(2))
Sec. 26-12. - Court technology fee.
modified
A court technology fee ("fee") in the amount of $5.00 per citation is hereby added to any fine imposed by the municipal court for any conviction of any state law or local ordinance within the court's jurisdiction. In the event of multiple citations and convictions for one offender, the fee shall be imposed on each separate conviction. Mandatory state add-ons shall be calculated based on the sum of the underlying fine and the information technology fee. The information technology fee shall not be deposited in the city's general fund, but rather shall be deposited into a separate account and shall be used for expenditures related to the acquisition, repair and maintenance of computer software for the municipal court.
As used in this section, the term "conviction" shall also include bond forfeitures in which a violator posts and bond and the bond is forfeited without a plea or trial before the court, as further described and defined in O.C.G.A. § 40-13-58.
(Ord. No. 2017-05, § I, 11-28-2017; Ord. No. 2022-08, § I, 6-21-2022)
Sec. 26-13. - Senior municipal court judge.
Any person who has previously served as judge of the municipal court for a minimum of eight years, shall be designated as senior judge of the municipal court. The senior judge of the municipal court may be assigned work from time to time in the discretion of the municipal court judge with the consent of the city manager.
(Ord. No. 2018-3, § I, 5-15-2018)
