ARTICLE XII. - C-3, HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 12.01. - Statement of purpose.
The purpose of the C-3, Highway Commercial District is to provide for and encourage appropriate development along the City's major streets which will include a variety of sales and services that will both accommodate the needs of the City and the traveling public. Adequate off-street parking, adequate building set backs and reduction of traffic hazards are prime city objectives for business development along the city's major streets.
Sec. 12.02. - Permitted uses.
a.
All permitted uses in the C-1 and C-2 zoning districts, except loft dwellings.
b.
Automobile sales and auto service.
c.
Service stations.
d.
Agricultural implement sales and service.
e.
Wholesale stores, storage buildings, warehouses, mini-warehouses, distributing plants, freezers and lockers.
f.
Small fabrication and manufacturing shops, when employing not more than ten (10) employees in the office and manufacturing operations.
g.
Monument and Statuary sales.
h.
Manufactured housing sales.
i.
Outdoor furniture and equipment.
j.
Tent and canopy sales.
k.
Swimming pools and hot tub sales.
l.
Trade shops including sheet metal, roofing, upholstering, electrical plumbing, venetian blind, cabinet making and carpentry, rug and carpet cleaners and sales, and sign painting, providing that all operations are conducted entirely within the building.
m.
Shopping Centers.
n.
Museums.
o.
Commercial Entertainment Clubs.
(Ord. No. 05-06, § 1(4), 6-9-05)
Sec. 12.03. - Conditional uses.
a.
All conditional uses in the C-1 and C-2 zoning districts.
b.
Cemeteries. (See Section 5.03b.)
c.
Churches and other religious institutions. (See Section 5.03a.)
d.
Hospitals, clinics, nursing homes, and personal care homes.
e.
Public buildings, structures or other public land uses.
f.
Open air business—as limited and defined in Article II.
g.
Flea Markets (a planted natural buffer strip of at least ten (10) feet wide along the side and rear lot lines is required).
h.
Junk yards provided that protective screenings are provided. (See Section 3.15, Protective Screenings.)
i.
Adult entertainment businesses.
j.
Gas stations/mini-marts—as limited and defined in Article II.
j.
Other uses similar to the above and compatible with the particular neighborhood and environment as approved by the Mayor and City Council.
Sec. 12.04. - Protective screening.
Protective screening requirements of C-3, Highway Commercial District adjacent to or near residential districts shall be in compliance with the regulations set forth in Section 3.15, Protective Screenings. All outdoor sales areas are subjected to establishing a planted and maintained natural buffer strip of at least twenty (20) feet in width and six (6) feet in height on side and rear lot lines.
Sec. 12.05. - Area and placement requirements.
(In accordance with the Schedule of Regulations, Article XX.)
Sec. 12.06. - Procedures for site plan project approval.
In connection with all of the above uses, a site plan of the proposed development shall be furnished to the Mayor and Council showing the location of buildings, roads, parking areas, open areas, sidewalks, landscaping, buffers, lighting, etc. Mayor and Council shall have final authority on those projects listed under Section 12.02 and 12.03.
NOTE: All plans shall be submitted two (2) weeks prior to the regularly scheduled Mayor and Council meeting.
