ARTICLE IV. - OUTDOOR WATERING OF LANDSCAPE

Sec. 14-171. - Restriction on outdoor watering of landscape.
Persons may irrigate outdoors daily for purposes of planting, growing, managing, or maintaining ground cover, trees, shrubs, or other plants only between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.; provided, however, that this limitation shall not create any limitation upon the following outdoor water uses:
(1)
Commercial raising, harvesting, or storing of crops; feeding, breeding, or managing livestock or poultry; the commercial production or storing of feed for use in the production of livestock, including, but not limited to, cattle, calves, swine, hogs, goats, sheep, and rabbits, or for use in the production of poultry, including, but not limited to, chickens, hens, ratites, and turkeys; producing plants, trees, fowl, or animals; or the commercial production of aquacultural, horticultural, dairy, livestock, poultry, eggs, and apiarian products or as otherwise defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3;
(2)
Capture and reuse of cooling system condensate or storm water in compliance with applicable City of Dawsonville ordinances and state guidelines;
(3)
Reuse of gray water in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.2 and applicable local board of health regulations;
(4)
Use of reclaimed waste water by a designated user from a system permitted by the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources to provide reclaimed waste water;
(5)
Irrigation of personal food gardens;
(6)
Irrigation of new and replanted plant, seed, or turf in landscapes, golf courses, or sports turf fields during installation and for a period of 30 days immediately following the date of installation;
(7)
Drip irrigation or irrigation using soaker hoses;
(8)
Hand watering with a hose with automatic cutoff or handheld container;
(9)
Use of water withdrawn from private water wells or surface water by an owner or operator of property if such well or surface water is on said property;
(10)
Irrigation of horticultural crops held for sale, resale, or installation;
(11)
Irrigation of athletic fields, golf courses, or public turf grass recreational areas;
(12)
Installation, maintenance, or calibration of irrigation systems; or
(13)
Hydroseeding.
(Ord. of 1-10-11, § 1)
Sec. 14-172. - Enforcement.
(a)
No person shall use or allow the use of water in violation of the restrictions on outdoor water use contained in this article.
(b)
The City of Dawsonville Water and Sewer Department shall be the enforcement authority for this article. The mayor may also authorize other departments as may be deemed necessary to support enforcement.
(c)
Criminal and alternative penalties. Any violation of this article may also be enforced by a citation returnable to the city court or by any other legal means as set forth by City Code.
(Ord. of 1-10-11, § 2)
Secs. 14-173—14-190. - Reserved.
