ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Financial institution business license tax.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93 there is hereby levied for the year 1996, and for each year thereafter, an annual business license tax upon state and national banking associations, federal savings and loan associations and state building and loan associations a business license tax at the rate of .25 % of the gross receipts of said institutions. Gross receipts shall mean gross receipts as defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(b)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, the minimum amount of business license tax due from any depository financial institution pursuant to this section shall be $1,000.00 per year.
(c)
Each depository financial institution within the city shall file a return of its gross receipts with the city by February 1 of the year following the year in which such gross receipts were measured. Said returns shall be in the manner and in the form prescribed by the state and shall be based upon the allocation method set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(d). The tax levied pursuant to this chapter shall be assessed and collected based upon the information provided in said return. The due date of taxes levied by this chapter shall be March 15 of each year.
(Ord. No. 18-A(2), §§ 1, 2, 12-5-1995)
Sec. 8-2. - Prohibition of the retail sale and distribution of novelty lighters.
(a)
Prohibitions. The retail sale, offer of retail sale, gift of, or distribution of any novelty lighter within the city limits is prohibited. The prohibitions set forth herein are inapplicable to novelty lighters that are only being transported through Dawsonville or novelty lighters located in a warehouse closed to the public for purposes of retail sales.
(b)
Definition. The phrase "novelty lighters" means a lighter that has entertaining audio or visual effect or that depicts through the use of logos, decals, artwork, or by other means or that resembles in physical form or function articles commonly recognized as appealing to or intended for use by children ten years of age or younger, which includes, but is not limited to, lighters that depict or resemble cartoon characters, toys, guns, watches, musical instruments, vehicles, toy animals, food or beverages or that play musical notes or have flashing lights or other entertaining features. A novelty lighter may operate on any fuel including butane or liquid fuel.
(c)
Exceptions. The term "novelty lighter" excludes any lighter manufactured before 1980 and any lighter that lacks fuel or any lighter that lacks a device necessary to produce combustion or flame.
(d)
Penalty. Any person or entity violating any provision of this section shall be guilty of infraction and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to a fine or penalty of not less than $25.00 nor more than $500.00 per violation. Jurisdiction to hear all cases related to alleged violation of this section shall lie concurrently in city court, county magistrate court and county superior court.
(Ord. of 10-6-2008, §§ I—IV)
Secs. 8-3—8-20. - Reserved.
