Chapter 108 - ANNEXATIONS

Sec. 108-1. - Annexation in general.
Annexation of property into the city limits shall be accomplished in accordance with state law, the regulations of this chapter 108 and all other applicable ordinance provisions.
(Ord. of 7-10-2017, ยง 1)
Sec. 108-2. - Annexation application and fee.
The city manager or his designee shall create an application form for annexation requiring such information as is necessary to properly process the annexation request. The application for annexation shall include a section related to the zoning classification sought for the subject property by the applicant or the zoning application may be a separate form at the discretion of the city manager or his designee. Applications for annexation shall include a completed application form signed by the property owner(s) and, unless the annexation is initiated by the city, a non-refundable fee for annexation and a non-refundable fee for the requested zoning as fixed from time to time by the council (See, section 2-110).
(Ord. of 7-10-2017, ยง 1)
Sec. 108-3. - Annexation of island property held by multiple owners.
In the event there are multiple tracts of subdivided property that are unincorporated islands surrounded by properties within the city limits and the owners of the island tracts desire to be annexed into the city limits in a group of at least five or more properties in order to eliminate their status as unincorporated islands, then the fees set forth in section 2-110 may be adjusted by the council to such level as compensates the city for the necessary costs of annexation and rezoning while at the same time recognizing the savings of annexation and rezoning of multiple tracts of subdivision property within an unincorporated island at the same time. Upon the filing of applications of at least five or more such applications, the council in its discretion may make any adjustment in the fees at its next regular meeting and thereafter upon payment of said fees, the applications shall proceed in accord with the hearing and consideration process. If no such adjustment is made by the council, the fees set forth in section 2-110 shall apply.
(Ord. of 7-10-2017, ยง 1)
