ARTICLE V. - R-1, SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 5.01. - Statement of purpose.
This Single Family Residential District is established as a district in which the principal use of land is for low density single family dwelling units. For the R-1 single family residential district, the specific intent is:
a.
To encourage the construction of and the continued use of the land for low density single family residential development within the City.
b.
To discourage land uses which would generate traffic on minor or local streets, other than normal traffic to serve the residences on those streets.
Sec. 5.02. - Permitted uses.
a.
Single family detached dwellings, except manufactured and mobile homes.
b.
Industrialized buildings (modular homes/units).
c.
Accessory buildings or uses customarily incidental to any of the permitted uses, when located on the same lot and not involving any business, profession, trade or occupation.
Sec. 5.03. - Conditional uses.
a.
Churches, provided that the proposed site is not less than one (1) acre and a complete site development sketch is submitted with the application and provision is made for off-street parking.
b.
Cemeteries, provided that a complete site development sketch is submitted with the application.
c.
Clubs and lodges not operating for profit provided that:
1.
The buildings are not placed closer than fifty (50) feet to any property lines; and
2.
There is a planted buffer strip at least ten (10) feet wide along the side and rear lot lines.
d.
Public buildings, structures or other public land uses.
e.
Hospitals and clinics.
f.
Home Occupations—Home occupations as limited and defined in Article II.
g.
Day Care facilities (family day care facilities as limited and defined in Article II) provided that no play equipment be located in the front yard and that signage be compatible to the neighborhood and not larger than regulated for home occupations. All State licensing requirements and regulations shall also apply.
h.
Family Personal Care Homes—as limited and defined in Article II.
i.
Bed and breakfasts—Bed and breakfasts as limited and defined in Article II.
j.
All radio, cellular phone, or similar transmission/receiving antennas.
k.
Other uses similar to the above and compatible with the particular neighborhood and environment as approved by the Mayor and City Council.
Sec. 5.04. - Area and placement requirements.
(In accordance with the Schedule of Regulations, Article XX.)
