ARTICLE V. - BROADBAND UTILITY

Sec. 14-191. - Creation of the broadband utility.
There is hereby established in the City of Dawsonville the City of Dawsonville Broadband Utility, ("broadband utility") through which the City of Dawsonville may itself or through contracts with third parties establish broadband data service throughout the corporate limits of the City of Dawsonville.
(Ord. of 12-2-2013, § 1)
Sec. 14-192. - Provision of broadband utility services.
(a)
No duty to provide. Through the broadband utility, the City of Dawsonville shall have the power, but not the obligation, to provide data service to property owners, business owners, residents of the City of Dawsonville and other such persons who desire to have data service through the City of Dawsonville broadband utility while they are in the corporate limits of the city. Nothing contained herein shall require the City of Dawsonville to maintain the provision of a broadband utility should the provision of such utility be determined by the governing authority of the city to not be in the city's best interests.
Additionally, the provision of broadband service in the city shall not create a duty to provide the broadband service to all incorporated parts of the City of Dawsonville.
(b)
Method of providing service. The city may use any method allowed by law to provide service through the broadband utility, to include but not be limited to contracting with third party service providers who may provide the service wirelessly ("Wi-Fi") or through physical connections to a fiber-optic or other form of broadband network. Additionally the city is authorized to utilize or grant access to the rights of way of the City of Dawsonville and/or access to city owned buildings and structures for the purpose of providing the broadband utility service.
(c)
Rules and regulations. The department of public works shall be charged with the oversight of the broadband utility, to include the adoption of such rules and regulations as are necessary to insure the legal, orderly, and efficient provision of broadband utility service in the city. The governing authority shall have the power to amend and/or modify rules and regulations of the broadband utility. Violation of the rules and regulations of the broadband utility shall be sufficient ground to suspend or otherwise terminate broadband utility service.
(d)
Suspension or termination of service.
(1)
The department of public works may determine at any time that after having provided broadband utility service it is no longer in the best interests of the utility to provide that service to a particular broadband utility user or users. Such suspension or termination of service may be based upon non-payment for service, violation of the rules and regulations of the broadband utility, changes in the availability of the service, negative impacts on other users of the broadband utility, use of the broadband utility for illegal purposes, any combination of the above or other factors affecting the broadband utility. Notice of the power of the department of public works under this paragraph shall be contained in the application for broadband utility service.
(2)
The city may determine at any time by a decision of its governing authority that, after having provided broadband utility service, it is no longer in the best interests of the city to provide broadband utility service as a whole. Notice of the power of the city to suspend or terminate service as described herein shall be contained in the application for broadband utility service.
(Ord. of 12-2-2013, § 2)
Sec. 14-193. - Application for service and payment.
(a)
Applying for service. Persons or entities desiring to obtain broadband data utility service through the city shall complete an application on forms to be provided by the city. The application for service shall require the applicant to provide such information as the city determines is necessary in order to make a decision on whether connection to the broadband utility may be approved.
(b)
Rates and paying for service. Once approved, the person or entity receiving the broadband data utility service will be invoiced on a monthly basis by the city for the service rendered at such rates as are established by the governing authority of the city. Rates shall be established and amended by the mayor and city council by resolution from time to time, and shall be set out in section 2-110.
(1)
The governing authority shall have the power to provide for differing rates depending upon the volume of use and type of use for which the applicant seeks broadband utility service.
(2)
The rates charged by the city shall be paid without regard to whether there are fluctuations in the speed of the service or even temporary outages of the broadband utility.
(3)
The city may combine charges for the broadband utility with other invoices it sends for other services provided.
(4)
In addition to the rates charged monthly for broadband utility service, the city shall have the authority to, by resolution, require security deposits prior to providing connection to the broadband utility.
(c)
Consideration of application for service.
(1)
The application for service shall be received and considered by the city public works department. The foregoing notwithstanding, in the event that the city provides its broadband utility service through an agreement with a third party data service provider, the public works department shall coordinate decisions on applications for service with the third party provider to determine, among other things, the speed of the service at the applied-for location, the strength of any signal at the applied for location, and the effect, if any, that approval of the application may have on other subscribers to the broadband utility.
(2)
The city reserves the right to deny service for any reason permissible under the law, including but not limited to situations where data speed is not sufficient, strength of signal is not sufficient, or where the approval of an application for service may have a negative impact on the provision of broadband utility service to other utility subscribers.
(Ord. of 12-2-2013, § 3; Ord. of 8-19-2019, § 12)
Sec. 14-194. - Violations and penalties.
It shall be a violation of this article to access the broadband utility without being a subscriber to the broadband utility or without otherwise having the express permission of the city to access the broadband utility service. Violations of this article shall be punishable by a fine of up to $250.00 for the first offense, and for subsequent offenses a fine of up to $500.00 and six months in jail.
(Ord. of 12-2-2013, § 4)
