Chapter 111 - GRADING AND DRAINAGE
ARTICLE I. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Secs. 111-1—111-3. - Reserved.
Sec. 111-4. - Design references.
Site grading shall be done in accordance with the finished grades shown on the approved subdivision plans. Soil erosion and sediment control measures shall be provided as required in the soil erosion and sediment control ordinance (chapter 106). Stormwater control shall be provided as required in the stormwater management ordinance (chapter 107) and in accordance with state stormwater management manual and the state department of transportation manual on drainage design for highways.
(Ord. of 7-15-2019, § 1)
Secs. 111-5—111-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DEFINITIONS

Secs. 111-19—111-29. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DESIGN REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 111-30. - Maximum slope.
Site grades shall direct surface drainage away from buildings without causing adverse impact on adjacent properties. The maximum slopes for soil cut or fill shall be three feet of horizontal run for each foot of vertical rise or fall except for stable rock slopes. If actual soils encountered require a flatter slope for stability, the lesser slope shall be used.
(Ord. of 7-15-2019, § 1)
Sec. 111-31. - Culverts and piped system design criteria.
(a)
Culverts in live streams, cross drains or serving 20 acres or larger shall be designed for a 50-year frequency flood event. The inlet area inundated by the 100-year upstream headwater event shall be contained in a drainage easement.
(b)
Piped storm drainage systems shall be designed for a 25-year frequency storm event.
(c)
Catch basins are to be spaced so that the maximum gutter spread is six feet or less for the designed ten-year storm event.
(d)
The minimum pipe size to be used as a culvert or in a piped system is 18-inch diameter.
(e)
The minimum velocity in a pipe flowing full is to be two feet per second. The maximum velocity in a pipe flowing full is to be 12 feet per second. The exit velocity of culvert and pipe systems is to be controlled and modified to prevent channel erosion or scour.
(f)
The absolute minimum clearance between the bottom of the paving base or subbase and the exterior crown of the storm drain pipe or culvert is to be one foot. A clearance of two feet is considered more desirable and should be achieved if possible.
(Ord. of 7-15-2019, § 1; Ord. No. 03-2021 , § 1, 10-18-2021)
Sec. 111-32. - Storm drainage piping.
(a)
All stormwater and drainage piping under roads shall be reinforced concrete pipe that is at least 18 inches in diameter.
(b)
All stormwater drainage piping installed parallel of curbing within right-of-way shall be reinforced concrete pipe that is at least 18 inches in diameter.
(c)
All stormwater drainage piping with 15 feet and greater cover shall be reinforced concrete pipe that is at least 18 inches in diameter.
(d)
All stormwater drainage piping installed in live streams shall be reinforced concrete pipe that is at least 18 inches in diameter.
(e)
All stormwater drainage piping installed within a retaining wall backfill shall be reinforced concrete pipe that is at least 18 inches in diameter.
(Ord. of 7-15-2019, § 1; Ord. No. 03-2021 , § 1, 10-18-2021)
Sec. 111-33. - Access points.
The maximum distance between stormwater piping manholes or daylight shall be 300 linear feet.
(Ord. of 7-15-2019, § 1)
Sec. 111-34. - Specifications for drainage construction.
Grading and drainage systems shall be installed in accordance with the city standard specifications roadways and drainage systems, latest edition and the city standard details, latest edition. The standard specifications and details can be obtained as separate documents.
(Ord. of 7-15-2019, § 1)
Sec. 111-35. - Preparation of grading and drainage plans.
Grading and drainage plans for all developments except individual one and/or two family dwelling units, shall be prepared by a Georgia registered professional engineer or landscape architect and submitted as part of the Subdivision Plans.
(1)
Information to be shown on the plans shall consist of not less than the following:
a.
Topographic map of the existing conditions for the development showing existing facilities and features which affect or could be affected by grading and drainage improvements. Utilize a contour interval of not greater than two feet with spot elevations as necessary to define existing ground surfaces.
b.
All drainageways, lakes, streams, creeks, swales, ditches, channels, wetlands, and drainage facilities.
c.
All existing utilities and appurtenances which affect or could be affected by grading and drainage improvements. The utility type, size and location in relation to grading and drainage improvements should be indicated.
d.
All existing and proposed drainage basins.
e.
Existing and proposed properly and easement lines and land lot and land district lines intersecting or bounding grading and drainage improvements.
f.
Finished grades depicted by finished contours and/or spot elevations as necessary to define finished grade surfaces.
g.
New drainage improvements including, but not limited to, pipes, culverts, catch basins, area drains, drop inlets, junction boxes, headwalls, berms, dikes and detention basins with outlet works. The drainage areas tributary to each drainage structure, design flow, and time of concentration shall be indicated.
h.
Profiles of storm drains showing existing and finished ground surfaces, pipes, drainage structures with top and flow line elevations, distances from centerline to centerline of drainage structures, pipe and ditch grades, crossing utilities, and limits of special construction.
i.
Benchmarks for vertical control.
j.
Name of the development, names, addresses and telephone numbers of developer and developer's design professional, design professional's seal, north arrow, scale, and date.
(2)
Plans shall be prepared in conformance with the following:
a.
All elevations shall be based on and tied to U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey mean sea level datum. Date for mean sea level datum must be provided.
b.
Plan drawings shall be at a scale of at least one inch equals 100 feet. In developed or congested areas, a scale of one inch equals 20 feet or less shall be utilized.
c.
For profile drawings, the horizontal scale shall be the same as that used for the associated plan drawings. The vertical scale shall be at least one inch equals 10 feet. A one inch equals five feet vertical scale is often necessary to properly depict drainage conditions.
d.
The desired drawing size is 24 inches by 36 inches. In no case shall drawings be larger than 30 inches by 42 inches nor smaller than 11 inches by 17 inches.
e.
Drainage construction may be shown on street or utilities improvements plans provided the resulting drawings are clear, legible and plainly show all necessary information.
(Ord. of 7-15-2019, § 1)
