ARTICLE X. - EXCISE TAX

Sec. 6-94. - Wholesale.
(a)
There is hereby levied an excise tax computed at the rate of $0.22 per liter that shall be paid to the governing authority on all distilled spirits and wine sold by wholesalers to retailers in Dawson County. Such tax shall be paid to the director by the wholesale distributors on all distilled spirits and wine sold to the licensees for the sale of distilled spirits and wine in Dawson County as follows: Each wholesaler selling, shipping, or in any way delivering distilled spirits or wine to any licensees hereunder, shall collect the excise tax at the time of delivery and shall remit the same together with a summary of all deliveries to each licensee on or before the tenth day of the month following the delivery. Excise taxes received after the 20th day of the month shall be charged a ten-percent penalty. The $0.22 per liter shall be prorated so that all containers of distilled spirits and wine shall be taxed on the basis of $0.22 per liter. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any wholesaler to sell, ship or deliver in any manner any distilled spirits or wine to a retail dealer without collecting said tax. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any retail dealer to possess, own, hold, store, display or sell any distilled spirits or wine on which such tax has not been paid. Each wholesaler shall be paid three percent of the amount of taxes collected as reimbursement for collection of said tax.
(b)
There is hereby levied an excise tax on all beer and malt beverages sold by wholesalers to retailers in Dawson County at the rate of $0.22 per liter and $6.00 for each container of tap or draft beer or malt beverage of 15½ gallons and in similar proportion for bottles, cans and containers of various sizes as follows:
EXPAND
Size of Container Tax Per Container
7 ounces $0.0291
8 ounces 0.0333
12 ounces 0.0500
14 ounces 0.0583
16 ounces 0.0666
32 ounces 0.1333
½ barrel (15½ gallons) 6.00
1 barrel (31 gallons) 12.00
  All provisions as to excise tax in this section shall apply to this tax on beer and malt beverages except the tax rate which is set out in this subsection and the reimbursement of three percent of the taxes collected which shall not apply to beer and malt beverage wholesalers.
(Ord. of 5-6-2021(1))
Sec. 6-95. - Distilled spirits by the drink.
(a)
Every purchaser of distilled spirits by the drink shall be liable for a tax thereon at the rate of three percent of the retail price or charge for such drink. Such taxes shall be collected by the licensee licensed under this chapter, and such licensee shall remit the same to the director on or before the tenth day of the succeeding month along with a summary of the licensee's gross sales derived from the sale of distilled spirits by the drink, excluding malt beverages. Gross sales shall include all credit card sales and shall be reported and taxes collected thereon shall be submitted to the director to the same extent as required of cash sales. Each licensee shall be allowed a deduction equal to that rate authorized for deductions from state tax under part V of the Georgia Retailer's and Consumer's Sales and Use Tax Act, O.C.G.A. § 48-8-50, as now written or hereafter amended provided that the tax is not delinquent at the time of payment. It shall be the duty of every such licensee required to make a report and pay any tax levied pursuant to this article, to keep and preserve suitable records of the sales taxable pursuant to this article, and such other books or accounts as may be necessary to determine the amount of tax due. It shall be the duty of every licensee to keep and preserve such records for a period of three years.
(b)
Excise taxes received in the alcohol licensing department after the 20th day of the month shall be charged a ten-percent penalty.
(c)
If the director deems it necessary to conduct an audit of the records and books of the licensee, he/she will notify the licensee of the date, time and place of the audit.
(d)
Any licensee who violates any provision of this article may, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $300.00, and the license of such location may be suspended or revoked.
(Ord. of 5-6-2021(1))
Sec. 6-96. - Farm wineries.
Farm winery licensees shall pay an excise tax at a rate of $0.22 per liter according to the process detailed in section 6-94(a) (wine and distilled spirits).
(Ord. of 5-6-2021(1))
Secs. 6-97, 6-98. - Reserved.
