Chapter 9 - OFFENSES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).

Sec. 9-1. - Civil emergencies.
(a)
Emergency powers of mayor generally. Certain emergency powers shall be placed in the hands of the chief executive of the city, to be exercised only in the event of an emergency as herein contemplated and only for such periods of time as the actual emergency exists. Further, said powers shall only be invoked after a declaration and proclamation of an emergency.
(b)
Nature of emergency powers. In addition to any and all powers enumerated in this Code, the mayor, as the chief executive of the city shall have further emergency powers as follows.
(1)
The mayor shall have the right to declare an emergency to exist when, in his opinion, one or more of the following conditions exists:
a.
Extreme danger or likelihood of destruction of life or property due to unusual conditions;
b.
Unusual or extreme weather conditions or public areas difficult or impossible;
c.
Civil unrest, commotion, or uprising is eminent or exists;
d.
Stoppage or loss of electrical power affecting a major portion of the city.
(2)
After declaration of such emergency, the mayor shall have the right to exercise any or all of the following powers:
a.
The power to use employees of the city to assist in providing for the safety of all the community and preserving the lives, health, and property of its citizenry;
b.
The power to close streets and sidewalks and to delineate areas within the city wherein an emergency exists:
c.
The power to impose emergency curfew regulations;
d.
The power to close business establishments within the affected area;
e.
The power to close any and all municipally owned buildings and other facilities to the use of the general public;
f.
The power to do any and all acts necessary and incidental to the preservation of the lives, health, and property of the citizenry of the city.
(c)
Duration of emergency powers. No emergency power as set forth herein shall be effective for more than 72 hours following the declaration of any emergency by the mayor. However, upon declaration of a second or further emergency, the emergency powers as set forth herein may be exercised during such further emergency period or periods, but never for more than 72 hours in one declared emergency period.
(d)
Period never to extend beyond next council meeting. No emergency period shall extend beyond the next regular, special, or called meeting of the city council.
(e)
Area of emergency to be exactly defined. The declaration of an emergency as to a portion of the city shall specify with exactness the area in which the emergency is declared to exist.
(Ord. of 4-2-1971, §§ 7.01—7.05)
