ARTICLE III. - BAIL BONDS AND BAIL BONDING COMPANIES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Persons deemed professional bondsmen, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-50; certain persons prohibited from engaging in bail bond business, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-8.

Sec. 22-46. - Business license required.
The business of arranging, posting and acting as surety on bonds for accused in any city ordinance violation coming within the jurisdiction of the city and any person or other entity desiring to conduct such business within the city limits is required, prior to the conducting of such business, to obtain a business license from the city. Such license shall be granted in accordance with the terms and conditions as set forth in this article, and may be revoked by the city upon violation of any of the terms and conditions of this article.
(Code 1967, § 5½-1)
Sec. 22-47. - License fee; posting of license.
The annual license fee for the conduct of a bonding business, as referred to in section 22-46, shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at the office of the bonding company, visible to any individual lawfully on the premises.
(Code 1967, § 5½-2)
Sec. 22-48. - Posting of certificate of deposit prerequisite to issuance of license.
Any bonding company, prior to the conduct of any business in the city, shall post, or cause to be posted, with the city clerk a certificate of deposit in an amount set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. The amount required to be posted may, in the sole discretion of the city commission, be increased or decreased, but notice of any increase shall only be effective after notice to any licensed bonding company and by appropriate amendment to this article. The certificate of deposit shall be endorsed by the bonding company to the city, and shall be held by the city subject to the terms and conditions as are set forth in this article. The posting of such certificate of deposit shall be a condition precedent to the issuance of any business license to any bonding company and shall be in such form as may be required by the city.
(Code 1967, § 5½-3)
Sec. 22-49. - Form of bond; bonding schedule.
All bonds posted by any bonding company as surety for accused shall be on forms acceptable to the city and shall be in accordance with the current bonding schedule of the city as may be set by the municipal court from time to time or in accordance with bonds as may be set by the municipal court in any particular case, and further shall be in accordance with any future bond schedules which may be promulgated at any time hereafter.
(Code 1967, § 5½-4)
Sec. 22-50. - Bonds to be made returnable to appearance date in municipal court.
All bonds shall be made returnable to the appearance date in the municipal court for the city.
(Code 1967, § 5½-5)
Sec. 22-51. - Forfeiture of bond.
Should any individual accused of violating any of the ordinances or laws referred to in the bonding schedule, as referred to in section 22-49, and for whom a bonding company has acted as surety or posted bond, fail to appear at said individual's appearance date, including continuances, then the bond of that individual failing to appear shall be declared forfeited, and the bonding company, which acted as surety thereon, shall have a period of 28 days from the appearance date to deliver the individual up before the municipal court. If after the expiration of 28 days the individual has not been brought before the municipal court, any subsequent continuances included, then the bonding company which has acted as surety on that individual's bond shall pay to the city the value of the cash bond as reflected in the bond schedules referred to in section 22-49. At no time shall any monies paid by the bonding company to the city, pursuant to the provisions of this article, be returnable to the bonding company by the city.
(Code 1967, § 5½-6; Ord. No. O-22-11 , § 2(Exh. A), 10-17-22)
Sec. 22-52. - Continuance of bond.
If any individual shall be bound over by the municipal court to a higher court, then, it shall be within the sole discretion of the municipal court whether to continue the bond for that individual and to make the bond returnable to any required appearance in any higher court to which the individual is bound if the latter procedure is permissible.
(Code 1967, § 5½-7)
Sec. 22-53. - Nonpayment of forfeited bonds.
The certificate of deposit referred to in section 22-48, which each bonding company is required to post, shall be a fund from which the city may, at its sole election, collect any forfeited bonds which are not promptly paid by the bonding company in accordance with the provisions of this article. This section shall in no way limit the liability of the bonding company such amount as may be required in the schedule of fees and charges, and each bonding company shall be liable directly to the city for any and all amounts due the city by virtue of forfeited bonds, whether or not the sums exceed the amount set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. In the event of nonpayment of any forfeited bond, the city may, at its election, sell or cash the certificate of deposit, and deduct from the proceeds thereof any and all amounts due the city by the bonding company for forfeited bonds, together with all costs incurred by the city in the sale or negotiation of the certificate of deposit, and the balance remaining, if any, shall be delivered to the bonding company. The business license for the bonding company shall, upon default, be immediately revoked.
(Code 1967, § 5½-8)
Sec. 22-54. - Settlement of case prior to appearance date.
If any case is settled prior to the designated appearance date either by a plea by the accused or by the payment of a fine, if allowed, for the particular offense, or both, the bonding company which acted as surety on that individual's bond shall be relieved of all further liability. It shall be the sole responsibility of the bonding company to determine whether or not a case has been disposed of prior to the appearance date.
(Code 1967, § 5½-10)
Sec. 22-55. - Revocation of license.
Any violation of any section of this article or regulation of the city, or any violation of any other statute, law or resolution by any bonding company shall be grounds for the revocation of the business license of the offending company. In the event of any such revocation, the bonding company shall immediately cease to act as surety on any bonds after the date of revocation, but shall remain liable and bound to the city for any bonds for which it is surety prior to such revocation. The city commission shall have the power to revoke any business license for any bonding company, after notice to the offending bonding company and a hearing at any scheduled commission meeting.
(Code 1967, § 5½-11)
Sec. 22-56. - License to be obtained prior to commencing business; date fee due and payable.
The license shall be procured before any bonding company commences business. The annual license fee shall be payable on or before February 1 of each year thereafter, except that any bonding company obtaining a license prior to January 1, 1980, may function by paying for their license for the year 1980.
(Code 1967, § 5½-13)
Secs. 22-57—22-75. - Reserved.
