Chapter 30 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Emergency services, ch. 38; law enforcement, ch. 62; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 70.
State Law reference— Authority to adopt temporary or experimental traffic regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(19); Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 30-1—30-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

Sec. 30-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions, other than those functions for which military forces or state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of human-made or natural origin. These functions may include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, protection against the effects of radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection, shelter, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian population, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out such functions.
(Ord. No. O-94-10, § 17½-40, 7-5-94; Ord. No. O-22-11 , § 2(Exh. A), 10-17-22)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 30-32. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person violating any provision of this article, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this article, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as provided in section 1-12.
(Ord. No. O-94-10, § 17½-45, 7-5-94)
Sec. 30-33. - County emergency management director; duties.
It is the desire and intent of the governing officials of the city that the city be a part of the county emergency management unit. The chief executive officer of the county shall nominate for appointment, by the governor, a director of emergency management for the entire county. When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of the city on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assist city officials in organizing city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with city and county departments, the county emergency and disaster operations plan emergency functions set forth in section 30-31. The plan will be in consonance with the state natural disaster operations plan and nuclear emergency operations plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities therein for approval and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
Maintain the emergency management office and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports, to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
Submit reports as necessary as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices.
(6)
Obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operating center.
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of an emergency, and under supervision of county governing officials.
(Ord. No. O-94-10, § 17½-41, 7-5-94)
Sec. 30-34. - County emergency management office; assignment of emergency functions.
The county emergency management office shall be established around existing city and county departments, and the emergency functions described in section 30-31 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
(1) Mayor CEO, county commissioners Direction and control
(2) Police department and sheriff department Communications and warning
Police services
Evacuation
(3) Emergency management office Public information
State military support
Training
Preliminary damage assessment and reporting
Public property assistance
Attack preparedness
Specific hazards
(4) Fire department Search, rescue and recovery
Fire services
Hazardous materials
Radiological protection
(5) Public works Engineering
Petroleum and solid fuel services
Utilities
(6) DeKalb school system
Decatur school system Transportation services


Food services
(7) Board of health Health and medical services
(8) Department of family and children services Social services
Shelter and temporary housing
  (Ord. No. O-94-10, § 17½-42, 7-5-94)
Sec. 30-35. - Powers during an emergency or disaster.
In the event of a human-made or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of citizens of the city, the mayor of the city, separately, or jointly with the CEO, county commission or in their absences, their legally appointed successors, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws, and regulations relating to emergency management and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources;
(2)
Seize or take for temporary use, any private property for the protection of the public;
(3)
Sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies; and
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Ord. No. O-94-10, § 17½-43, 7-5-94; Ord. No. O-22-11 , § 2(Exh. A), 10-17-22)
Sec. 30-36. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as city officers and employees.
(Ord. No. O-94-10, § 17½-44, 7-5-94)
