ARTICLE V. - TELEPHONE COMPANIES[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Limitation on expanding the power of municipal regulation over any business activity regulated by the Public Service Commission, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(5).

Sec. 22-101. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Recurring local service revenues means:
(1)
Monthly charges for local exchange service, including:
a.
Charges for additional listings and joint users;
b.
The guarantee portion of the charge for semipublic pay station services;
c.
Charges for local message rate service, including mobile service local messages; and
d.
Subscriber station revenues from tele-typewriter exchange service.
(2)
Charges for Morse transmission, signaling, data transmission, remote metering and supervisory control, where both terminal points are within the city limits.
(3)
All charges for local private line services, except audio and video program transmission services, where both terminals of the private line are within the city limits.
Nothing in this definition shall preclude the charging of a separate franchise fee for the transmission of audio or video programs to customers by CATV companies.
(Code 1967, § 12½-61)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-102. - Occupational license tax levied; amount; date due and payable.
Each telephone company operating in the city shall pay an occupational license tax in the amount of three percent of the recurring local service revenues received by such company from subscribers located within the city. Such occupational license tax shall be paid in quarterly installments, each of which shall be due on or before the last day of the second month following the end of each calendar quarter and shall be based on recurring local service revenues billed during such calendar quarter. The first payment under this article shall be based on revenues billed between the effective date of this article (January 1, 1974) and the end of the calendar quarter in which such effective date falls. Any amount of license tax previously paid and absorbed by a telephone company which is applicable to any period subsequent to the effective date of this article shall be credited against the amounts imposed in this article or by subsequent ordinance.
(Code 1967, § 12½-61)
Secs. 22-103—22-130. - Reserved.
