27-2.19 DIVISION 19. - MU-1 (MIXED-USE LOW DENSITY) DISTRICT

Sec. 2.19.1. - Dimensional requirements.
Dimensional requirements for the MU-1 (Mixed-Use Low Density) District shall be as provided in Table 2.17, "Mixed-Use Zoning Districts Dimensional Requirements." Dimensions are established in Table 2.17 for the overall development site (development parcel) and for individual lots intended for single-family detached or single-family attached housing types, when such lots include yards. A mixed-use development may be subject to both the overall development site dimensions and the individual lot dimensions, depending on the mixture of housing types that are proposed for the overall development.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 2.19.2. - Site and building design standards.
Site and building design standards and regulations shall be as provided in Table 2.17 and article 5, site and building design standards.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 2.19.3. - Rezoning to the MU-1 (Mixed-Use Low Density) District.
Properties within the Suburban, Traditional Neighborhood, Neighborhood Center, Town Center, Regional Center, Office Park, Institutional, Commercial Redevelopment Corridor and Highway Corridor character areas of the DeKalb County Comprehensive Plan Future Development Map are eligible to be rezoned to the MU-1 District.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 2.19.4. - MU-1 (Mixed-Use Low Density) District rezoning submittal requirements.
The following standards only apply to rezoning applications initiated by the owner(s) of the subject property or the authorized agent of the owner(s). In the interest of economic development and to spur redevelopment, applications initiated by the county are not required to comply with the standards in this section.
Prior to the submittal of an application for a land disturbance permit or building permit, an applicant for development of a county-initiated MU-zoned property, shall comply with the following standards. The application will be reviewed administratively by the director, in consultation with the district and super-district commissioners.
A.
Pre-application meeting. Before submitting an application for rezoning to the MU-1 (Mixed-Use Low Density) District, the applicant shall confer with the director of planning to discuss the feasibility of the proposed plan and its relationship to the comprehensive plan and county ordinances.
B.
Submittal of master development plan. The submittal package for rezoning to the MU-1 (Mixed-Use Low Density) District shall include all items indicated by the application and instruction form established by the planning department. The master development plan shall include:
1.
Pre-application meeting minutes. Applicants shall provide documentation showing that the required pre-application meeting occurred.
2.
Master development plan. A master development plan shall illustrate the project showing the location of proposed uses identified by type, site functions, and internal vehicular and pedestrian circulation, along with proposed access points (note: prefer multi-modal access plan as specified in the overlays).
3.
Master development standards. An applicant for rezoning to the MU-1 (Mixed-Use Low Density) District shall submit the following with the rezoning application:
a.
A set of tables, matrices, and/or diagrams shall document the proposed standards that will regulate the permitted use, density, lot dimensions, setbacks, site and building form for each area identified in the master concept plan, and indicate all instances where proposed standards vary from this ordinance.
b.
Documentation regarding eligibility for density bonus(es) sought by the applicant (see section 2.19.6).
c.
A summary of the anticipated maintenance and ownership of streets and open spaces.
d.
Proposed gross and net non-residential floor area, maximum number of residential dwelling units by type and minimum lot size, and amount of enhanced open space.
4.
Master development plan architectural standards. An applicant for rezoning to the MU-1 (Mixed-Use Low Density) District shall include with the master development plan a set of binding and enforceable architectural standards that will be utilized by the developer to ensure aesthetic continuity throughout the life of the project.
a.
At a minimum, the architectural standards shall address lighting, signage, fences, landscaping, building materials, and other architectural features proposed to be included by the applicant.
b.
A master sign plan may be proposed for approval at the time of rezoning with dimensions that vary from the sign ordinance, provided that the proposed plan demonstrates pedestrian-oriented scale.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 2.19.5. - Mixed-use building restrictions.
The following restrictions shall also apply to mixed-use buildings:
A.
All uses allowed in the MU-1 (Mixed-Use Low Density) District, as provided in Table 4.1, may occupy the ground level of a mixed-use building; however, any residential uses shall not occupy more than fifty (50) percent of the floor area of the ground level. All levels above ground level shall only be occupied by residential, professional office or service uses.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 2.19.6. - Density and location criteria.
A.
Use of bonuses shall permit a development to exceed the maximum base density established for the district in which the development property is located, provided that in no case shall a development exceed the maximum density allowed by the character area in which the property is located, according to the future development map adopted at the time of land disturbance permit application. Table 2.18 describes the maximum allowed dwelling unit density after application of any bonuses.
Table 2.18 MU-1 Character Area and Bonus Residential Density Maximum
EXPAND
Character Area MU-1
Dwelling Units per Acre
Base Max Bonus Max
Suburban 4 8
All other character areas 4 8
  B.
Density determination of each MU-1 (Mixed-Use Low Density) property:
1.
Existing MU-1 properties: For properties converted to the MU-1 (Mixed-Use Low Density) District classification at the effective date of this chapter:
a.
Where conditions of zoning regulate density on the property, the maximum density shall remain as established in any conditions of zoning attached to the property.
b.
Where no conditions of zoning regulating density have been attached to the property, the maximum density shall be the "Base Max" described in Table 2.18 unless administratively reviewed and approved for bonus increases, according to the criteria set forth in subsection C. below.
2.
New MU-1 districts: For property rezoned to the MU-1 (Mixed-Use Low Density) District classification after the effective date of this chapter, density shall be established by the board of commissioners at the time of approval of the MU-1 District, based upon the criteria set forth in subsection C. below.
C.
Density bonus eligibility and calculations. Density bonuses are intended for subdivisions as defined in this chapter, not for individual infill lots. The maximum allowed density on MU-1 (Mixed-Use Low Density) zoned property may be increased above the "base max" by application of density bonuses as indicated by Table 2.19, and may be accumulated if eligible. An example of how allowable density bonuses are calculated is shown in the example at the end of Table 2.19. In no case shall density exceed the bonus maximum established by Table 2.18.
Table 2.19 Residential Density Bonus Eligibility and Percent, with Example Calculation
EXPAND
Density bonus % increase by amenity, location, or other provision
20% greater than base
Public Improvements Applicant provides any of the following improvements: transit facilities (bus shelter, ride-share), public art, structured parking, trail with public access, sidewalks and/or road improvements beyond project.
Transit Proximity Existing park-n-ride or ride-share facility is located within ¼ mile of property boundary.
Non-residential and Residential Mix of Uses Total gross square footage of all buildings occupied by non-residential uses is between 10—25%.
Amenity Proximity Existing amenities such as health care facilities, senior and/or civic centers, public schools, public libraries, recreational facilities, personal service establishments, grocery stores, or shopping centers.
50% greater than base
Sustainability Elements Certification that proposed buildings, if built as designed, would be accredited by LEED ® , EarthCraft, or other similar national accreditation organization, for energy- and water-efficient site and building design.
Mixed Income or Mixed Age 30-year enforceable commitment approved by the county attorney and recorded on the deed records that total number of units will be reserved to be occupied as follows: 10% by very low income households, or 20% by low-income households, or 25% by senior citizens. Household income level shall be as established by the Atlanta Regional Commission.
Non-residential and Residential Mix of Uses Non-residential uses occupy more than 25% of total gross square footage of all buildings.
Additional Enhanced Open Space Additional enhanced open space (with standards established by article 5) comprise 20% of the overall development site.
100% greater than base
Additional Enhanced Open Space Additional enhanced open space comprises 35% or more of the overall site development.
MARTA Rapid Transit Station Existing MARTA rapid transit station is located within ¼ mile of property boundary.
Reinvestment Areas Property is located within an Enterprise Zone or Opportunity Zone.
  ( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 2.19.7. - Reserved.
Sec. 2.19.8. - MU-1 retail size restrictions.
Standalone retail or other uses shall not exceed forty thousand (40,000) square feet total floor area without a special land use permit, which may be issued based on the criteria provided in section 7.4.6.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
