ARTICLE IX. - MISCELLANEOUS RULES

Sec. 17-261. - Manner of riding on vehicle.
No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or intended for the use of passengers. This section shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding within truck bodies in a space intended for merchandise.
(Code 1976, § 8-11012)
Sec. 17-262. - Play streets—Authority to establish; signing.
The county may declare any street or part thereof a play street and place appropriate signs or devices in the roadway indicating and helping to protect it.
(Code 1976, § 8-11013)
Sec. 17-263. - Same—Driving on; speed limit.
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon such street or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed area, and then the driver shall exercise the highest degree of care in driving upon such street or portion thereof, and at no time shall the driver's speed exceed five (5) miles per hour.
(Code 1976, § 8-11014)
Sec. 17-264. - Roller skates, coasters, etc.
(a)
No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coasters, toy vehicles or similar devices, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a street on a crosswalk, and when so coasting such person shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. This section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a play street.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for persons so skating or riding to gather in crowds, or to create noise or be guilty of any disorderly conduct, or to take hold of or hang onto any automobile or other vehicle, or in any way to interfere with the natural progress of automobiles or other vehicles along and in the streets of the county, or for two (2) or more persons to join hands while skating on the sidewalk. Any person so skating or riding shall give right-of-way to, and in no way interfere with, persons walking on the sidewalks.
(c)
Any person violating any provision of this section shall be subject to the penalties provided for violation of this chapter; provided, however, that an offender under the age of seventeen (17) years shall be dealt with as provided by O.C.G.A. tit. 15, ch. 11 [§ 15-11-1 et seq.]. The parent of any child and the guardian of the person or any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this section.
(Code 1976, § 8-11015)
Sec. 17-265. - Towing.
No vehicle shall tow more than one (1) other vehicle, nor shall the connection between vehicles exceed sixteen (16) feet in length.
(Code 1976, § 8-11016)
Sec. 17-266. - Speed of trains.
The maximum speed limit for grade crossings in the unincorporated area of the county is established as designated in section 17-358, and all train operators or engineers shall reduce the speed of their trains to a maximum of the stated speed limits within one thousand (1,000) feet before crossing each of these grade crossings.
(Code 1976, § 8-8020)
Sec. 17-267. - Railroad trains not to block streets.
It shall be unlawful for the directing officer or the operator of any railroad train to direct the operation of or to operate it in such a manner as to prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a period of time longer than five (5) minutes. This provision shall not apply to trains or cars in motion other than those engaged in switching.
(Code 1976, § 8-11017)
Sec. 17-268. - Motor vehicles using bike lanes or paths.
(a)
No motor vehicle or motorcycle shall be operated on any bicycle lane or path for any purpose including parking, passing or turning unless otherwise permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
No person shall at any time drive, stop or park any vehicle except an emergency vehicle within a bike lane or bike path.
(c)
No person shall drive upon or across a bicycle lane except after giving the right-of-way to all bicycles within the lane.
(Code 1976, § 8-12013.2)
Sec. 17-269. - Contributing factor to a collision.
(a)
If a driver improperly uses a mobile telephone while he or she operates a moving motor vehicle and it is proven that the mobile telephone's improper usage distracted the driver from safe operation of such a vehicle and was a contributing factor in any collision resulting in death, physical injury, and/or property damage; then the court is authorized to impose an additional fine up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) in addition to any other penalty or punishment imposed by the court for the violation of the underlying traffic offense. The total fine amount shall not exceed the maximum fine amount allowed by section 1-10 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 06-13, Pt. I, 8-22-06)
Sec. 17-270. - Outdoor advertising spotlights, definitions.
Outdoor advertising spotlight in sections 17-270 through 17-272 means a mobile or fixed projector designed to produce an approximately parallel beam of light which is aimed above the horizontal plane, the use of which includes, but is not limited to, advertising for special events or an apparatus containing a source of light and a reflector that projects the light produced in a concentrated, far-reaching beam and can be mounted on a swivel so that the beam can be directed.
(Ord. No. 07-31, Pt. I, 12-18-07)
Sec. 17-271. - Outdoor advertising spotlight permit and time restrictions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to use an outdoor advertising spotlight in the unincorporated area of the county without first securing a permit from the county. No permit issued by the county shall allow outdoor advertising spotlights to be used for a period exceeding fourteen (14) days from date of issuance. It shall be unlawful for any person to use a permitted outdoor advertising spotlight after midnight.
(b)
Outdoor advertising spotlights shall not be mounted in a way that is distracting to motorists or pilots who operate aircraft or in a way that interferes with the safe operation of a motor vehicle or aircraft, as may be determined by the police chief or designee.
(Ord. No. 07-31, Pt. I, 12-18-07)
Sec. 17-272. - Application and issuance of permit.
(a)
Application. To obtain an outdoor advertising spotlight permit, the applicant shall file with the police chief or designee a written application on a form promulgated by the police chief or designee. The police chief or designee shall have the authority to determine what pertinent information is required in the application. The application for a permit shall be made at least fifteen (15) days before the date of use of the outdoor advertising spotlight.
(b)
Issuance. The chief of police or designee shall determine whether or not the permit application is complete; that is if it contains all of the pertinent information required in the application form to grant the permit. After receipt of a complete application the police chief or designee shall grant or deny the permit within ten (10) days. If the permit is issued, it shall be granted for a period not to exceed fourteen (14) days from date of issuance. If the permit is denied, the police chief or designee shall provide written notice to the applicant setting forth in reasonable detail the reasons for such denial.
(c)
Appeals from denial. The decision of the police chief or designee to deny an outdoor advertising spotlight permit shall be final unless the applicant files a petition for writ of certiorari to the DeKalb County Superior Court within fifteen (15) days of the date of the police chief or designee's decision.
(d)
Exemptions. The following properties are exempt from obtaining an outdoor advertising spotlight permit and exempt from the time restrictions set forth in section 17-271:
(1)
Any property owned or operated by the federal government, state government, any municipality or any public authority of the state, including, but not limited to, Stone Mountain Park.
(e)
Renewals. A permit for an outdoor advertising spotlight shall indicate an expiration date which is fourteen (14) days from the date of issue. Application for renewal may be made at any time following the ninetieth day after the date of expiration.
(Ord. No. 07-31, Pt. I, 12-18-07)
Sec. 17-273. - Denial.
No permit for an outdoor advertising spotlight shall be issued under any of the following circumstances:
(1)
The outdoor advertising spotlight compromises safety, security and visibility through excessive glare;
(2)
The outdoor advertising spotlight diminishes the privacy of the surrounding neighborhood or neighbors; or
(3)
The applicant has violated any provision of this code or any other applicable state or federal laws.
(Ord. No. 07-31, Pt. I, 12-18-07)
Sec. 17-274. - Suspension or revocation.
An outdoor advertising spotlight may be suspended or revoked by the chief of police or designee for failure of a permit applicant to comply with the provisions of this article or where the applicant furnishes fraudulent or false information on the permit application.
(Ord. No. 07-31, Pt. I, 12-18-07)
Sec. 17-275. - Permit fees.
No outdoor advertising spotlight permit shall be issued until a fee in the amount established by action of the board of commissioners, a copy of which will be on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners, is paid to the county.
(Ord. No. 07-31, Pt. I, 12-18-07)
Secs. 17-276—17-300. - Reserved.
