27-2.12 DIVISION 12. - RSM (SMALL LOT RESIDENTIAL MIX) DISTRICT

Sec. 2.12.1. - Statement of purpose and intent.
The purpose and intent of the board of commissioners in establishing the RSM (Small Lot Residential Mix) District is as follows:
A.
To provide for the creation of residential neighborhoods that allow a mix of single-family attached and detached housing options;
B.
To provide flexibility in design and product on the interior of new development while protecting surrounding neighborhoods;
C.
To implement the future development map of the county's most current comprehensive plan.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 2.12.2. - Permitted and special land uses.
Permitted uses and uses requiring special land use permits shall be as provided in Table 4.1. In cases where a use is permitted but there are supplemental use regulations for that use specified in article 4, such regulations shall also apply.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 2.12.3. - Dimensional requirements.
Dimensional requirements for the RSM (Small Lot Residential Mix) District shall be as provided in Table 2.4, "Medium and High Density Residential Zoning Districts Dimensional Requirements."
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 2.12.4. - Site and building design standards.
Site and building design standards and regulations to be applied in this zoning district shall be as provided in article 5, site design and building form standards.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 2.12.5. - Density and location criteria.
A.
Use of bonuses shall permit a development to exceed the maximum base density established for the district in which the development property is located, provided that in no case shall a development exceed the maximum density allowed by the character area in which the property is located. Table 2.5 describes the maximum allowed dwelling unit density after application of any bonuses.
Table 2.5 R-SM Character Area and Bonus Residential Density Maximum
EXPAND
Character Area RSM
Dwelling Units per Acre
Base Max Bonus Max
Suburban 4 8
Traditional Neighborhood 4 8
Neighborhood Center 4 8
Commercial Redevelopment Corridor 4 8
Town Center 4 8
  B.
Density determination of each RSM (Small Lot Residential Mix) property:
1.
Existing RSM properties: For existing properties converted to RSM (Small Lot Residential Mix) District classification at the effective date of this chapter:
a.
Where conditions of zoning regulating density have been attached to the property, maximum density shall remain as established in such conditions.
b.
Where no conditions of zoning regulating density have been attached to the property, maximum density shall be the "Base Max" described in Table 2.5 unless administratively reviewed and approved for bonus increases, according to the criteria set forth in subsection C. below.
2.
New RSM properties: For property rezoned to the RSM (Small Lot Residential Mix) District classification after the effective date of this chapter, density shall be established by the board of commissioners at the time of approval, based upon the criteria set forth in subsection C. below.
C.
Density bonus eligibility and calculations. Density bonuses are allowed only for subdivisions as defined in this chapter and are expressly not allowed for individual infill lots. The maximum allowed density on RSM (Small Lot Residential Mix) District zoned property may be increased above the "Base Max" by application of density bonuses as indicated by Table 2.6, and may be accumulated if eligible. An example of how allowable density bonuses are calculated is shown in the example at the end of Table 2.6. In no case shall density exceed the bonus maximum established by Table 2.5.
Table 2.6 Residential Density Bonus Eligibility and Percent, with Example Calculation
EXPAND
Density bonus % increase by amenity, location, or other provision
20% greater than base
Public Improvements Applicant provides any of the following improvements: transit facilities (bus shelter, ride-share), public art, structured parking, trail with public access, sidewalks and/or road improvements beyond project.
Transit Proximity Existing park-n-ride or ride-share facility is located within ¼ mile of the property boundary.
Amenity Proximity Existing amenities, such as healthcare facilities, senior and/or civic centers, public schools, public libraries, recreational facilities, personal service establishments, grocery stores, or shopping centers. (See section 2.12.7.)
50% greater than base
Sustainability Elements Certification that proposed buildings, if built as designed, would be accredited by LEED®, EarthCraft, or other similar national accreditation organization, for energy- and water-efficient site and building design.
Mixed Income or Mixed Age 30-year enforceable commitment approved by the county attorney and recorded on the deed records that total number of units will be reserved to be occupied as follows: 10% by very low income households, or 20% by low income households, or 25% for senior citizens. Household income level shall be as established by the Atlanta Regional Commission.
Additional Enhanced Open Space Additional enhanced open space (with standards established by article 5) comprise 20% of the overall development site.
100% greater than base
Additional Enhanced Open Space Enhanced open space comprises 35% or more of the overall development site.
MARTA Rapid Transit Station Existing MARTA rapid transit station is located within ¼ mile of the property boundary.
Reinvestment Areas Property is located within an Enterprise Zone or Opportunity Zone.
  ( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 2.12.6. - Amenity proximity requirements.
For proposed development within one-quarter (0.25) mile of an existing public school, park, library, trail or greenway network, a pedestrian facility linking to the amenity shall be provided, or a stub-out for linking to a future amenity shall be provided. Measurement of distance to a qualifying amenity shall be taken from center point of the proposed drive of the principal entrance and follow the shortest street route to the center point of the closest existing drive to access the existing amenity.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
Sec. 2.12.7. - Bonus density qualifying standards.
The following standards shall be applied when considering whether bonus density may be allowed:
A.
Qualifying public improvements.
1.
Bus shelter. To qualify as eligible for bonus density, proposed bus shelter facilities shall include at a minimum a shelter structure, bench and paved access and be designed according to MARTA or GRTA standards, based upon ridership thresholds and as documented as acceptable by either agency.
2.
Park-n-ride and/or ride-share. To qualify as eligible for bonus density, proposed ride-share facilities shall provide for a minimum of one hundred (100) parking spaces, and park-n-ride amenities shall provide a minimum of three hundred (300) parking spaces, unless the station warrants fewer, as documented by MARTA or other transit service provider.
3.
Public art. To qualify for bonus density, a proposed work of art shall be subject to approval by the planning commission, be located on the development site or in a public place off site, and have a value of at least one-half of one percent (.005) of the total construction valuation of the building permit. The maximum required value shall not exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00).
a.
Options for providing public art are: Purchase an existing piece of art work or have a specific piece of art work commissioned.
b.
For commissioned work, a deposit with the planning department of one hundred fifteen (115) percent of the value of the public art is required prior to the issuance of a building permit.
c.
Public art or public works of art is defined as the creative application of skill and taste by artists to production of permanent tangible objects according to the aesthetic principles, including but not limited to:
• Paintings;
• Sculptures;
• Site specific installations;
• Engravings;
• Carvings;
• Frescos;
• Mobiles;
• Murals;
• Collages;
• Mosaics;
• Statutes; and
• Base-reliefs.
d.
Public art or public works of art shall also include the creative application of skill and taste by artists according to the aesthetic principals to the architectural embellishment of a building or structure. Architects and landscape architects are not considered artists under this definition.
e.
The following shall not be considered public art or public works of art:
• Reproductions or unlimited copies of original art work;
• Art objects which are mass produced;
• Works that are decorative, ornamental or functional elements of the architecture or landscape design, except when commissioned from an artist as an integral aspect of a structure or site; and
• Architectural rehabilitation or historical preservation.
4.
Structured parking. Developments that provide vertical, structured parking shall be eligible for the residential density bonus, provided:
a.
Parking decks not integrated into other buildings shall be located internal to the site.
b.
Structures are either at least two (2) stories above ground or greater; and/or
c.
Alternatively, at least one (1) story is underground.
d.
Parking decks visible from a public right-of-way shall incorporate similar architectural materials as the primary building(s).
5.
Trail with public access. Minimum length of new trail or multi-use path shall be one-quarter (0.25) mile and shall connect to a greenway/trail or sidewalk network external to the site.
B.
Qualifying amenity clarifications.
1.
Health or medical services: include clinics and offices for health, dental and/or medical services, as defined in article 9, including pharmacies with diagnostic services.
2.
Recreational facilities: include private or public exercise gymnasiums, fitness centers, sports fields, parks, and swim centers.
( Ord. No. 15-06 , 8-25-2015)
