ARTICLE X. - POOLROOMS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 15-331. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Pool or billiards includes any game played on a table surrounded by an elastic ledge of cushions with balls which are impelled by a cue.
Poolroom means any public place where a person is permitted to play the game of pool or billiards.
(Code 1976, § 7-1182)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 15-332. - Applicability.
O.C.G.A. tit. 43, ch. 8 [§ 43-8-1 et seq.] does not apply within the unincorporated area of the county. The provisions of this article govern the operation of poolrooms within the unincorporated area of the county.
(Code 1976, § 7-1181)
Sec. 15-333. - Inspection of licensed establishments.
The police department may inspect establishments licensed under this article during the hours in which the premises are open for business. Such inspection shall be made for the purpose of verifying compliance with the requirements of this article.
(Code 1976, § 7-1188; Ord. No. 11-02, Pt. I, § 1, 11-27-01)
Sec. 15-334. - Gambling.
No gambling or other games of chance shall be permitted in a poolroom.
(Code 1976, § 7-1187(a))
Sec. 15-335. - Manager.
All poolrooms which have three (3) or more pool tables shall have a manager, or designated employee, on duty during operating hours, whose responsibility is the operation of the pool tables.
(Code 1976, § 7-1187(b))
Secs. 15-336—15-350. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 15-351. - Required.
No person shall operate a poolroom without a business license issued by the finance department.
(Code 1976, § 7-1183)
Sec. 15-352. - Application.
(a)
All persons desiring to operate a poolroom shall make application for a business license on a form prescribed by the finance department.
(b)
The application shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
(1)
The name and address of the owner-applicant.
(2)
The address of the licensed establishment.
(3)
The number of pool tables to be operated at the licensed establishment.
(4)
If the owner-applicant is a partnership, the names and residence addresses of the partners.
(5)
If the owner-applicant is a corporation, the names of the officers.
(6)
The name and address of the agent for service of process.
(7)
The name of the manager.
(8)
The name of all shareholders holding more than ten (10) percent of any class of corporate stock, or other entity having a financial interest in each entity which is to own or operate the licensed establishment.
If the manager changes, the owner-applicant must furnish the finance department and police department with the name and address of the new manager and other information as requested within ten (10) days of such change.
(c)
All applicants shall furnish data, information and records as required by the finance department to ensure compliance with the provisions of this article. Failure to furnish data shall automatically serve to dismiss the application with prejudice.
(d)
All applications shall be sworn to by the applicant before a notary public or other officer authorized to administer oaths.
(e)
In all instances in which an application is denied under the provisions of this division, the applicant may not reapply for a license for at least one (1) year from the final date of denial.
(Code 1976, § 7-1183; Ord. No. 11-02, Pt. I, § 1, 11-27-01)
Sec. 15-353. - Persons eligible.
(a)
No poolroom license shall be granted to any illegal alien.
(b)
Where the owner-applicant is a partnership or corporation, the provisions of this section shall apply to all its partners, officers, managers and majority stockholders. In the case of a corporation, the license shall be issued jointly to the corporation and to the majority stockholder, if an individual. Where the majority stockholder is not an individual, the license shall be issued jointly to the corporation and its agent registered under the provisions of this section. In the case of a partnership, the license will be issued to one (1) of the partners.
(c)
No license shall be granted to any person who has been convicted under any federal, state or local law of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude within ten (10) years prior to the filing of the application for such license.
(d)
No license shall be granted to any person convicted under any federal, state or local law of any felony within ten (10) years prior to the filing of the application for such license.
(e)
No license shall be granted to any person who has had any license issued under the police powers of the county previously revoked within two (2) years prior to the filing of the application. The finance department may decline to issue a license when any person having an interest in the operation of such place of business or control over such place of business does not meet the same character requirements as set forth for the licensee.
(f)
All licensed establishments must have and continuously maintain in the county a registered agent upon whom any process, notice or demand required or permitted by law or under this article to be served upon the licensee or owner may be served. This person shall be a resident of the county. The licensee shall file the name of such agent, along with the written consent of such agent with the finance department in such form as is prescribed.
(Code 1976, § 7-1184)
Sec. 15-354. - Expiration; renewal; transfer.
(a)
All licenses granted under this division shall expire on December 31 of each year.
(b)
Licensees who desire to renew their licenses shall file application with all applicable fees with the finance department on the form provided for renewal of the license for the following year. Applications for renewal must be filed before November 30 of each year or the applicant shall pay a late payment penalty in addition to an assessment of interest as specified by section 2-112. No renewal licenses shall be granted after January 1, but such application shall be treated as an initial application and the applicant shall be required to comply with all requirements for the granting of licenses as if no previous license had been held.
(c)
All licenses granted hereunder shall be for the full calendar year. License fees shall not be prorated and are nonrefundable.
(d)
No license shall be transferred without prior approval of the finance department.
(Code 1976, § 7-1185)
Sec. 15-355. - Fee.
No poolroom license shall be issued until a fee in the amount established by action of the board of commissioners, a copy of which is on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners, is paid to the county.
(Code 1976, § 7-1186)
Sec. 15-356. - Issuance.
Before a poolroom license is granted, the applicant therefor shall comply with all rules and regulations adopted by the board of commissioners regulating the operation of poolrooms.
(Code 1976, § 7-1186)
Sec. 15-357. - Suspension or revocation.
A poolroom license may be suspended or revoked by the finance department for failure of a licensee to comply with the provisions of this article or where the licensee furnishes fraudulent or false information in the license application.
(Code 1976, § 7-1189)
Sec. 15-358. - Appeals.
(a)
No poolroom license shall be denied, suspended or revoked without the opportunity for a hearing.
(b)
The finance department shall provide written notice to the owner-applicant and licensee of the order to deny, suspend or revoke the license. Such written notification shall set forth in reasonable detail the reasons for such action and shall notify the owner-applicant and licensee of the right to appeal under the provisions of this article. Any owner-applicant or licensee who is aggrieved or adversely affected by a final action of the county may have a review thereof in accordance with the appeals procedures specified in section 15-47. For purposes of this section notice shall be deemed delivered when personally served or, when served by mail, within three (3) days after the date of disposal in the United States mail.
(Code 1976, §§ 7-1190, 7-1191)
Secs. 15-359—15-374. - Reserved.
