ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Definitions.
modified
For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms and words are hereby defined. Where words are not herein defined, but are defined in section 1-2, those words shall have the meaning as defined therein. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Addition (to an existing building) means any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected to a common load-bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing walls is new construction.
Administrator means the person appointed to administer and implement article II of this chapter in accordance with section 14-31(a) and 14-31(c).
Aggrieved person(s) means a person(s) whose property is the subject of the action appealed from or a person's who has a substantial interest in the action appealed from that is in danger of suffering special damage or injury not common to all property owners similarly situated.
Agricultural operations means those practices involving the establishment, cultivation, or harvesting of products of the field or orchard, the preparation and planting of pasture land, farm ponds, dairy operations, livestock and poultry management practices and the construction of farm buildings.
Alley means a minor way, which is used primarily for vehicular service access to the back or side of properties otherwise fronting on a street.
Appeal means a review authorized by this chapter of any final order, requirement, or decision of the planning director or the chief executive officer based on or made in the enforcement of this chapter, excluding section 14-39.
Applicant means a person submitting a land development application for approval, and who acts in the person's own behalf or as the agent of an owner of property.
As-built drawings means amended site plans specifying the location, dimensions, elevations, capacities and operational capabilities of public improvements, including water, sewer, road and drainage structures and stormwater management facilities as they have been constructed.
Bank (stream bank) means the sloping land that contains the stream channel and the normal flows of the stream.
Basement means a space having one-half (½) or more of its floor-to-ceiling height below the average level of adjoining ground and with a floor-to-ceiling height of not less than six and one-half (6½) feet.
Best management practices (BMPs) means both structural devices to store or treat stormwater runoff and non-structural programs or practices which are designed to prevent or reduce the pollution of the waters of the state.
BMP landscaping plan means a design for vegetation and landscaping that is critical to the performance and function of the BMP including how the BMP will be stabilized and established with vegetation. It shall include a layout of plants and plant names (local and scientific).
Bicycle lane means that part of a street or highway adjacent to the roadway, designated by official signs or markings for use by persons riding bicycles.
Block means a piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways or streets, other than alleys. In cases where the platting is incomplete or disconnected, the planning director may delineate the outline of the block.
BNR means the board of natural resources.
Board or board of commissioners means the board of commissioners of DeKalb County, Georgia.
Breakaway wall means a wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or the supporting system.
Buffer area means that portion of a lot set aside for open space and/or visual screening purposes, pursuant to the applicable provisions of the DeKalb County Code and all conditions of zoning, to separate different use districts, or to separate uses on one (1) property from uses on another property of the same use district or a different use district.
Buffer, county means an area of land fifty (50) feet in width immediately adjacent to the state buffer.
Buffer, stream means the state buffer and the county buffer as measured horizontally from the top of the stream bank.
Buffer, state means an area of land twenty-five (25) feet in width immediately adjacent to the banks of state waters in its natural state of vegetation, which facilitates the protection of water quality and aquatic habitat.
Buildable area means the area of a lot remaining after all setback requirements, including buffer areas, have been met.
Builder as used in sections 14-135 and 14-136 means a person who constructs a structure or dwelling for residential occupancy by humans.
Building means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and intended for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of any individual, animal, process, equipment, goods, or materials of any kind.
Building permit means required written permission issued by the development director for the construction, repair, alteration, or addition to a structure.
Building setback line. Building setback line means the minimum horizontal distance required between the public right-of-way or the utility easement abutting a private street and the principal building or structure on a lot or any projection thereof except projections that are authorized exceptions to building set back line requirements in chapter 27 of the Code of DeKalb County and any zoning conditions approved by the board of commissioners pursuant thereto. The size of the utility easement(s) for a private street shall be equal to the required size of the public right of way and shall not be any smaller in width or length than what would be required for a public right of way.
CPESC means a certified professional in erosion and sediment control with current certification by, EnviroCert, Inc. which is also referred to as CPESC or CPESC, Inc.
Caliper means the diameter of a tree trunk, applied only to new or replacement plantings, that is taken six (6) inches above the ground for up to and including four-inch caliper size, and twelve (12) inches above the ground for larger sizes.
Certified personnel means a person who has successfully completed the appropriate certification course approved by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
Channel means a natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conveys continuously or periodically flowing water.
Channel protection means the protection of stream channels, in accord with the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual, from bank and bed erosion and degradation by preserving or restoring the applicable stream buffer, by providing extended detention, and by integrating erosion prevention measures such as energy dissipation and velocity control.
Chief executive officer means the chief executive officer of DeKalb County or designee.
Clean concrete means concrete that is free of added paints, insulators, reinforcing materials, sealers, asphalt, clay balls, soils, epoxy expansion material, or any other deleterious material that could potentially contaminate groundwater.
Collector street means a street or road designated as a collector street in the DeKalb County Thoroughfare Plan.
Commission means the state soil and water conservation commission.
Comprehensive plan means the DeKalb County Comprehensive Plan adopted by the board of commissioners, as it may be amended from time to time, which divides the unincorporated areas of the county into land use categories and which constitutes the official policy of the county regarding long term planning and use of land.
Conservation easement means a restriction or limitation on the use of real property which is expressly recited in any deed or other instrument of grant or conveyance executed by or on behalf of the owner of the land described therein and whose purpose is to preserve land or water areas predominantly in their natural scenic landscape or open condition or in an agricultural farming, forest or open space use and includes conservation easements authorized by state law.
Construction means any alteration of land for the purpose of achieving its development or changed use, including particularly any preparation for, building of or erection of a structure.
Construction waste means waste building materials and rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair and demolition operations on pavements, houses, commercial buildings and other structures. Such waste includes, but is not limited to: asbestos-containing waste, wood, tree stumps, tree tops, bricks, metal, concrete, wall board, paper, cardboard, glass, wire, plastics, and other typical construction waste products and refuse.
County means DeKalb County, Georgia, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia. When appropriate to the context, the term "county" also includes authorized officers, employees and agents thereof.
County arborist means the county official having the primary responsibilities of administration and enforcement of the tree protection ordinance.
County zoning ordinance or zoning ordinance means the zoning ordinance of DeKalb County, Georgia.
Critical root zone means an area of root space that is within a circle circumscribed around the trunk of a healthy tree using a radius of one (1) foot per inch DBH.
Crosswalk means a right-of-way within a block dedicated to public use, ten (10) feet or more in width, intended primarily for pedestrians and from which motor-propelled vehicles are excluded, and which is designed to improve or provide access to adjacent roads or lots.
Cut means a portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to the excavated surface. Also known as "excavation."
DBH (Diameter at breast height) means the diameter of a tree trunk measured in inches at a height of four and one-half (4½) feet above the ground. If a tree splits into multiple trunks below four and one-half (4½) feet, then the trunk is measured at its most narrow point beneath the split.
DNR means the Department of Natural Resources of the State of Georgia.
DeKalb County Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System means a stormwater conveyance or system of stormwater conveyances that are all of the following: owned or maintained by the County; designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater; is not a combined sewer; not part of a publicly owned treatment works (POTW); and not located within the boundaries of a city located within the county or owned or operated by any other government entity.
DeKalb County Stormwater Management Manual means the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual.
Deck, elevated means an open, unenclosed structure elevated above pervious natural grade that is attached to the primary structure.
Density factor means a unit of measurement used to prescribe the calculated required tree coverage on a site.
Department means the development department.
Design professional means a professional licensed by the state in the field of: engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, forestry, geology, or land surveying; or a person that is a certified professional in erosion and sediment control (CPESC) with a current certification by EnviroCert, Inc. Design professionals shall practice in a manner that complies with applicable Georgia law governing professional licensure.
Detention means the temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a stormwater detention facility for the purpose of controlling the peak discharge of the stormwater, as that term is defined by state law, the DeKalb County Stormwater Management Manual or this Code.
Detention facility means a structure designed for the storage and gradual release of stormwater runoff at controlled rates.
Developer means any person who acts in the person's own behalf or as the agent of an owner of property and engages in alteration of land or vegetation in preparation for construction activity.
Development means new development or redevelopment.
Development director means the director of the planning and sustainability department of the county, or his designee.
Development permit means any permit that authorizes land disturbance for the use, construction thereon or alteration of any real property within the unincorporated limits of the county.
Director means the director of the planning and sustainability department of the county, or his designee.
Director, EPD means the director of the environmental protection division or an authorized representative.
District means the DeKalb County Soil and Water Conservation District.
Division means the environmental protection division of the department of natural resources.
Drainage means the removal of surface or subsurface water from a given area, either by gravity or by pumping, commonly applied herein to surface water.
Drainage easement means an easement appurtenant or attached to a tract or parcel of land allowing the owners of adjacent tracts or other persons to discharge stormwater runoff onto the tract or parcel of land subject to the drainage easement.
Drainage plan means a plan prepared using appropriate and commonly accepted engineering standards, which specifies the means for alteration or development of a drainage system.
Drainage structure means a device composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one (1) place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for stormwater management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
Drainage system means the surface and subsurface system for the removal of water from the land, including, but not limited to, both the natural elements of streams, marshes, swales and ponds, whether of an intermittent or continuous nature, and the manmade element which includes culverts, ditches, channels, detention facilities that comprise the storm drainage system.
EPD means the environmental protection division of the department of natural resources.
Elevated building means a nonbasement building built to have the lowest floor elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls, pilings, columns (posts and piers), and/or shear walls.
Erosion means the process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
Erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan means a plan required by the Erosion and Sedimentation Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq., that includes, protections at least as stringent as the state general permit, best management practices, and requirements in section 14-38(b)(4)c. of this article.
Exceptional and historical trees means those trees or stands of trees which are exceptional representatives of their species in terms of size, age or unusual botanical quality, or are associated with historically notable events.
Existing manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was completed before June 6, 1974.
Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
Extended detention means the storage of stormwater runoff for an extended period.
Extreme flood protection means measures taken to prevent adverse impacts from large low-frequency storm events with a return frequency of one hundred (100) years or more.
Fill means a portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground surface or an excavation.
Final stabilization means that all soil-disturbing activities at the site have been completed, and that for unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures and areas located outside the waste disposal limits of a landfill cell that has been certified by EPD for waste disposal, one hundred (100) percent of the soil surface is uniformly covered in permanent vegetation with a density of seventy (70) percent or greater, or landscaped according to the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan (uniformly covered with landscaping materials in planned landscape areas), or equivalent permanent stabilization measures as defined in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia, as amended (excluding a crop of annual vegetation and seeding of target crop perennials appropriate for the region). Final stabilization applies to each phase of construction.
Finished grade means the final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Flood or flooding means a volume of surface water that exceeds the banks or walls of a BMP or channel, and overflow onto adjacent lands. This definition shall not apply to the county floodplain management ordinance, or the FEMA, NFIP or the county CRS participation related regulations.
Flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) means an official map of a community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have been defined as zone A.
Flood hazard map means the official county map designating the elevation and boundaries of flooding and associated floodways under base flood conditions maintained by the county, based upon the flood insurance study for the county dated January 5, 1983 or any revision thereto, the United States Corps of Engineers or other reputable reports accepted by the roads and drainage director, and based upon competent engineering studies prepared by a currently state-registered professional engineer, or the county.
Flood insurance rate map (FIRM) means an official map of a community, on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
Flood insurance study is the official report provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the flood boundary floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
Floodplain in section 14-44.1 et seq. means any land area susceptible to flooding, which would have at least a one (1) percent probability of a flooding occurrence in any calendar year based on the basin being fully developed as shown on the current land use plan; i.e., the regulatory flood.
Floodway means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one (1) foot.
Floor means the top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including basement), i.e., the top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of wood flooring in wood frame construction. The term does not include the floor of a garage used solely for parking vehicles.
Footpath in section 14-44.1 et seq. means any unpaved, narrow and pervious trail in a stream buffer allowing for pedestrian travel.
Frontage, lot means the distance for which the front boundary line of the lot and the street line are coincident.
Functionally dependent facility means a facility which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
Georgia Stormwater Management Manual(GSMM) means the latest edition of the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual. The GSMM provides the criteria, technical design specifications and standards for the proper implementation of the requirements of this chapter and have been adopted by the board of commissioners.
Governing authority of DeKalb County means the county's board of commissioners and chief executive officer.
Grading means altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Ground elevation means the original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Highest adjacent grade means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface, prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a building.
Historic structure. See Chapter 13.5.
Hotspot means a land use or activity on a site that has the potential to produce higher than normally found levels of pollutants in stormwater runoff. Examples of hotspots include, but are not limited to gas/fueling/gasoline stations, vehicle service and maintenance areas, auto recycling facilities, material storage sites, garbage loading and transfer facilities, landfills, industrial facilities (both permitted under the Industrial Stormwater General Permit and others), and commercial parking lots with high-intensity use.
Impervious surface means a surface composed of any material that significantly impedes or prevents the natural infiltration of water into the soil, including but not limited to surfaces such as concrete or asphalt as well as most conventionally surfaced streets, roofs, sidewalks, driveways, parking lots, and other similar structures.
Industrial stormwater general permit means the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued by the Georgia Environmental Protection Division to an industry for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity. The permit regulates pollutant levels associated with industrial stormwater discharges or specifies on-site pollution control strategies based on Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Code.
Infiltration means the process of percolating stormwater runoff into the subsoil.
Infiltration means the process of percolating stormwater runoff into the subsoil.
Inspection and maintenance agreement means a written agreement executed by an owner in a form approved by the director that will provide the long-term inspection, operation and maintenance of a stormwater management system, its components and practices on a site or with respect to a land development project, which when properly recorded in the deed records constitutes a restriction on the title to a site or other land involved in a land development project.
Intermediate regional flood (IRF) means a one-hundred-year frequency flood as defined on the flood hazard map which has a probability of occurring once every one hundred (100) years or having a one (1) percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Also known as the base flood, or one-hundred-year flood.
Intermediate regional floodplain means the land area within the floodplain within a community subject to a one (1) percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year as defined on the flood hazard map. Also known as area of special flood hazard, or one-hundred-year floodplain.
Land development application or land disturbance application means application for a land development permit on a form provided by DeKalb County along with the supporting documentation required in section 14-40(h)(1).
Land development permit or land disturbance permit means authorization necessary to begin construction related, land-disturbing activity.
Land-disturbing activity means any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land, but not including agricultural practices as described in section 14-38(b)(3)3)(e) or silvicultural land management activities as described in section 14-38(b)(3)(f).
Larger common plan of development or sale means a contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct construction activities are occurring under one (1) plan of development or sale. For the purposes of this paragraph, "plan" means an announcement, piece of documentation such as a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request, or computer design, or physical demarcation such as boundary signs, lot stakes, or surveyor markings indicating that construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
Linear feasibility program means a feasibility program developed by the county and submitted to the Georgia Environmental Protection Division, which sets reasonable criteria for determining when implementation of stormwater management standards for linear transportation projects being constructed by DeKalb County is infeasible.
Linear transportation project means a construction project on traveled ways, including but not limited to roads, sidewalks, multi-use paths and trails, and airport runways and taxiways.
Live detention means that quantity of water capable of being effectively contained by a designated facility for stormwater storage for a specified period of time.
Local issuing authority means the governing authority of DeKalb County.
Local street means a street used primarily for access to abutting properties in residential, industrial or other developments.
Lot means a designated parcel, tract, or area of land legally established by plat, subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be separately owned, used, developed, or built upon.
Lot, corner means a lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection or upon two (2) parts of the same street forming an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty-five (135) degrees.
Lot, double-frontage means a lot that abuts two (2) parallel streets or that abuts two (2) streets that do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot. A double-frontage lot may also be referred to as a through lot.
Lowest floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement. An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable nonelevation design requirements of 44 CFR 60.3.
Maintenance of detention facility means preserving the enclosed walls or impounding embankments of the detention facility in good condition; ensuring structural soundness, functional adequacy and freedom from excessive sediment; removing obstructions affecting operation of outlet device(s) and rectifying any unforeseen erosion problems.
Major thoroughfare/major arterial means a street, road or highway shown as a major thoroughfare in the DeKalb County Transportation and Thoroughfare Plan.
Manufactured home means a new or used structure, transportable in one (1) or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty (40) body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. section 5401 et seq.
Mean sea level means the average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain. For purposes of this chapter, the term is synonymous with national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD).
Metropolitan River Protection Act (MRPA) means a state law found at O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq., which addresses environmental and developmental matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
Minor thoroughfare/minor arterial means a street, road or highway shown as a minor thoroughfare in the DeKalb County Transportation and Thoroughfare Plan.
MS4 permit means the NPDES permit issued by the Georgia Environmental Protection Division for discharges from the county municipal separate storm sewer system.
Multi-phase residential development means any development undertaken by a single developer or a group of developers acting in concert, to develop lots for sale in a residential subdivision where such land is developed pursuant to multiple preliminary or final plats and such land is contiguous or is known, designated, or advertised as a common unit or by a common name.
Multiuse trail means a recreation corridor intended for the use of non-motorized forms of transportation such as, but not limited to, walking, running, bicycles, in-line skates, as identified in a master plan for multi-use trails in county approved by the board of commissioners.
National geodetic vertical datum (NGVD), as corrected in 1929, is a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
Natural ground surface means the ground surface in its original state before any grading excavation or filling.
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTUs) means numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed or suspended particles are present.
New construction means any structure for which the permitted date of construction commenced after adoption of this chapter.
New development means land disturbing activities, structural development (construction, installation or expansion of a building or other structure), and/or creation of impervious surfaces on a previously undeveloped site. New development also includes the construction of improvements such as, but not limited to, streets, driveways or parking area, water sewer mains, storm water drainage facilities, and sidewalks.
New manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after June 6, 1974.
NOI means a notice of intent form provided by EPD for coverage under the State General Permit.
Nonpoint source pollution means a form of water pollution that does not originate from a discrete point such as a wastewater treatment plant or industrial discharge, but involves the transport of pollutants such as sediment, fertilizers, pesticides, heavy metals, oil, grease, bacteria, organic materials and other contaminants from land to surface water and groundwater via mechanisms such as precipitation, stormwater runoff, and leaching. Nonpoint source pollution is a by-product of land use practices such as agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
Nonstructural stormwater management practice or nonstructural practice means any natural or planted vegetation or other nonstructural component and practice of the stormwater management plan that provides for or enhances stormwater quantity and/or quality control or other stormwater management benefits, and includes, but is not limited to, riparian buffers, open and greenspace areas, overland flow filtration areas, vegetated channels and natural depressions.
NOT means a notice of termination form provided by EPD to terminate coverage under the State General Permit.
Off-site facility means a stormwater management facility located outside the boundaries of the site.
One hundred-year floodplain means land in the floodplain subject to a one (1) percent or greater statistical occurrence probability of flooding in any given year.
On-site facility means a stormwater management facility located within the boundaries of the site.
Open space means that portion of a lot, including yards, established pursuant to the requirements of this chapter as open space, which is open and unobstructed from ground level to the sky, with the exception of natural foliage or accessory recreational facilities or walkways, which is accessible to all persons occupying a building on the lot and is not a part of the roof of any portion of any building.
Operator means the party or parties that have: (a) operational control of construction project plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications; or (b) day-to-day operational control of those activities that are necessary to ensure compliance with an erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan for the site or other permit conditions, such as a person authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out activities required by the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan or to comply with other permit conditions.
Outfall means the location where stormwater in a discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, leaves a facility or site or, if there is receiving water on site, becomes a point source discharging into that receiving water.
Overbank flood protection means measures taken to prevent an increase in the frequency and magnitude of out-of-bank flooding (i.e. flow events that exceed the capacity of the channel and enter the floodplain), and that are intended to protect downstream properties from flooding for the two-year through twenty-five-year frequency storm events.
Owner means the legal or beneficial owner of a site, including but not limited to, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee, or other person, firm or corporation on control of the site.
Parcel in section 14-44.1 et seq. means any plot, lot or acreage shown as a unit on the latest county tax assessment records.
Permit means the authorization necessary to conduct a land-disturbing activity under the provisions of this ordinance.
Person means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of the State of Georgia, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Phase or phased means subparts or segments of construction projects where the subpart or segment is constructed and stabilized prior to completing construction activities on the entire construction site.
Planning commission means the planning commission of county.
Planning director means the director of the department of planning of county or designee.
Post-construction stormwater management means stormwater best management practices that are used on a permanent basis to control and treat runoff once construction has been completed in accordance with a stormwater management plan.
Post-development means the conditions anticipated to exist on site immediately after completion of the proposed development.
Potential purchaser as used in sections 14-135 and 14-136 means a person purchasing property in a residential subdivision or a multi-phase residential development from a developer and/or builder for occupancy as a residence or as a residence to be rented or leased to others.
Practicability policy means the latest edition of the Metropolitan North Georgia water planning district's policy on practicability analysis for runoff reduction.
Predevelopment refers to the woods conditions of a site. Where phased development or plan approval occurs (preliminary grading, roads and utilities, etc.), the predevelopment conditions established at the time of the first item being approved or permitted shall establish pre-development conditions for all subsequent phases.
Pre-development hydrology means for both new development and redevelopment, the runoff curve number determined using the natural conditions hydrologic analysis based on the natural, undisturbed condition of the site immediately before implementation of the proposed development.
Previously developed site means a site that has been altered by paving, construction, and/or land disturbing activity.
Project means the entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
Properly designed means designed in accordance with the design requirements and specifications contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia Manual" published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted and amendments to the manual as approved by the commission up until the date of NOI submittal.
Protected zone means all areas of a parcel required to remain in open space, including all areas required as yard areas, buffer areas, stream buffers, state buffer zones or landscaped areas according to provisions of the county Zoning Ordinance or by conditions of zoning or variance approval.
Public facilities shall mean the roads, water, sewer, schools, traffic control devices, and electrical service.
Public works director means the director of the public works department or designee.
Qualified personnel means any person who meets or exceeds the education and training requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-19.
Reach means a longitudinal segment of a stream or river measured along specified points on the stream or river.
Reasonable access means a fifteen-foot access easement from the public right-of-way to the stormwater management facility and a ten-foot drainage and maintenance easement on all four (4) sides of the stormwater management facility.
Recreation areas means those portions of open space designed and intended for active recreational use, such as sports fields and other play areas.
Recreational vehicle means a vehicle that is:
(1)
Built on a single chassis;
(2)
Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
(3)
Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
(4)
Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
Recycled concrete aggregate means clean concrete made up of previously used concrete construction material that has been cleaned and crushed for use in future construction projects.
Redevelopment means a structural development (construction, installation, or expansion of building or other structure), creation or addition of impervious surfaces, replacement of impervious surfaces not as part of routine maintenance, and land disturbing activities associated with structural or impervious development on a previously developed site. Redevelopment also includes the construction of improvements such as, but not limited to, streets, driveways or parking area, water sewer mains, storm water drainage facilities, and sidewalks on a previously developed site. Redevelopment does not include such activities as exterior remodeling.
Regional stormwater management facility or regional facility means stormwater management facilities designed to control stormwater runoff from multiple properties, where the owners or developers of the individual properties may assist in the financing of the facility, and the requirement for on-site controls is either eliminated or reduced.
Residential shall have the same meaning as given in Chapter 27 except that it shall not include apartments.
Riparian means belonging or related to the bank of a river, stream, lake, pond or impoundment.
Roadway drainage structure means a device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one (1) side of a traveled way consisting of one (1) or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Rock outcropping means a single, contiguous piece of exposed rock that has a horizontal surface area equal to or greater than two hundred (200) square feet.
Routine maintenance means ordinary maintenance activities such as resurfacing paved areas, and exterior building changes or improvements which do not materially increase or concentrate stormwater runoff, or cause additional nonpoint source pollution. The activities shall keep the impervious surface the same as to its constructed condition. This definition only applies to existing paved surfaces or similar surfaces. Adding a building or structure on existing paved surfaces shall not be considered as a routine maintenance. This definition shall be applied only for the purpose of this chapter unless it is stated otherwise in other chapters.
Runoff means stormwater runoff.
Runoff coefficient means the ratio of runoff to rainfall.
Sediment means solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by wind, air, water, ice or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sedimentation means the process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
Sedimentation facility means a detention facility specifically developed for the purpose of allowing the deposit of sediment resulting from the land development process which may be constructed as part of or separately from a detention facility.
Sediment basin means a detention facility specifically developed for the purpose of allowing the deposit of sediment resulting from the land development process that may be constructed as part of or separately from a detention facility.
Seller as used in sections 14-135 and 14-136 means a builder or developer.
Significant tree means any existing, healthy, living tree eight (8) inches DBH or greater in size.
Site means an area of land where development is planned, which may include all or portions of one or more parcels of land. For subdivision and other common plans of development, the site includes all areas of land covered under an applicable land development permit.
Site plan means that plan required to acquire a development, construction or building permit which shows the means by which the applicant will conform with applicable provisions of this chapter and other applicable ordinances.
Soil and water conservation district approved plan means an erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan approved in writing by the county soil and water conservation district.
Soil stabilizer means construction material placed on the soil surface to add stability for future construction projects.
Specimen tree means any tree that has been determined to meet the criteria within section 14-39 for the determination of specimen trees.
SS&WCC means the state soil and water conservation commission.
Stabilization means the process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
Start of construction (for other than new construction or substantial improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)), includes substantial improvements, and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
State means the State of Georgia.
State general permit means the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) general permit or permits for storm-water runoff from construction activities as is now in effect or as may be amended or reissued in the future pursuant to the state's authority to implement the same through federal delegation under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq. and O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f).
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the State of Georgia, which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
Stormwater concept plan means an initial plan for post-construction stormwater management at the site that provides the groundwork for the stormwater management plan including the natural resources inventory, site layout concept, initial runoff characterization, and first round stormwater management system design.
Stormwater management plan means a plan for post-construction stormwater management at the site that meets the requirements of section 14-40(g) and is included as part of the land development application.
Stormwater management standards means those standards set forth in section 14-40(d).
Stormwater management system means the entire set of non-structural site design feature and structural BMPs for collection, conveyance, storage, infiltration, treatment, and disposal of stormwater runoff in a manner designed to prevent flood damage, streambank channel erosion, habitat degradation and water quality degradation and to enhance and promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
Stormwater management manual means the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual.
Stormwater quality site development review tool is an Excel spreadsheet tool available from the DeKalb County Public Works Department or website for use by both local government review staff and the development community to quickly evaluate the water quality performance of stormwater management plans for development sites. All new development and redevelopments in the county use the stormwater quality site development review tool to facilitate the evaluation of the project in accordance with recommendations of this chapter and the Georgia Stormwater Management Manual.
Stormwater retrofit means a stormwater management practice designed for a currently developed site that previously had either no stormwater management practice in place or a practice inadequate to meet the stormwater management requirements of the site.
Stormwater runoff means flow on the surface of the ground, resulting from precipitation.
Stream in section 14-44.1 et seq. means state waters, and natural, running water flowing continuously or intermittently in a channel on or below the surface of the ground, and includes, but is not limited to, all natural or manmade streams depicted on the 1995 DeKalb County Geographic Information System (GIS) map maintained by the county GIS director. Stream starts at the location of a spring, seep or groundwater outflow that sustains stream flow. No stream shall be excluded from this definition due to its failure to be identified on the GIS map. Field verification shall be performed to make a final determination as to the existence of a stream where a dispute exists. Such field verification may be performed by the director.
Stream channel in section 14-44.1 et seq. means the portion of a watercourse that contains the base flow of the stream.
Streambank means as measured horizontally from that point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action.
Street, private means an access way similar to and having the same function as a public street, providing access to more than one (1) property but held in private ownership. Private streets, when authorized, shall be developed in accordance with the specifications for public streets established in Division 3, Part B of this chapter.
Street, public means any right-of-way set aside for public travel deeded to the county and any right-of-way that has been accepted for maintenance as a street by the county.
Street right-of-way line means the dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a street right-of-way.
Structure means anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on or in the ground. This does not include telephone poles and utility boxes.
Structural erosion, sedimentation and pollution control practices means practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are rip rap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures and sediment traps, etc. Such practices can be found in the publication "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia."
Structural fill material means construction material used to support structures or build up a piece of land or embankment.
Structural stormwater control means a structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow of such runoff.
Subdivision means any division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel, regardless of its existing and future use, into two (2) or more lots, tracts or parcels. Where appropriate to context, subdivision may also be used to reference the aggregate of all lots held in common ownership at the time of division.
Subdivision, for the purposes of this article, means the division or redivision of a tract or parcel of land resulting into two (2) or more lots, regardless of its existing and future use, and includes divisions of land resulting from or made in connection with the layout or development of a new street or roadway or a change in an existing street or roadway. Where appropriate to context, subdivision may also be used to reference the aggregate of all lots held in common ownership at the time of division.
Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty (50) percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Substantial improvement means any combination of repairs, reconstruction, alteration or improvements to a structure taking place during the life of a structure, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds fifty (50) percent of the market value of the structure. The market value of the structure should be the appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement or, in the case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the damage occurring. This term includes structures that have incurred substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. For the purposes of this definition, substantial improvement is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the structure commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a building required to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by a code compliance official and which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions, or any alteration to a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places.
Substantially improved existing manufactured home parks or subdivision is where the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds fifty (50) percent of the value of the streets, utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
SWCD means the Soil and Water Conservation District of DeKalb County.
Thoroughfare plan means a comprehensive street plan of the county indicating proposed location and right-of-way widths for major thoroughfares, minor thoroughfares, collector streets and other streets.
Tree means any living, self-supporting, woody perennial plant which has a trunk caliper of two (2) inches or more measured at a point six (6) inches above the ground and which normally attains a height of at least ten (10) feet at maturity usually with one (1) main stem or trunk and many branches.
Tree harvesting means the felling, loading, and transporting of timber products done pursuant to a special exception issued by the zoning board of appeals.
Tree save area means the boundaries of the area or areas surrounding trees wherein it is essential that they remain undisturbed in order to prevent damage and loss of trees that are to be retained on site during the development and building process.
Tree replacement means the replacement of trees and landscape plant materials into the minimum required landscape areas, as determined by the zoning regulations or the tree protection ordinance.
Trout streams means all streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the Game and Fish Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq.
Trout waters, first order means streams into which no other streams flow except springs.
Trout waters, primary means streams or waters supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout.
Trout waters, secondary means streams or waters in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction, but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year.
Used for includes the phrases "arranged for," "designed for," "intended for," "maintained for" and "occupied for."
Vegetation means all plant growth, especially trees, shrubs, vines, ferns, mosses and grasses.
Vegetative erosion and sedimentation control measures means measures for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by: covering the soil with permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing longterm vegetative cover; temporary seeding, producing shortterm vegetative cover; or sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass. Such measures can be found in the publication "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia."
Watercourse means any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Water quality protection means the requirement that all developments must improve the quality of storm runoff from the development site.
Watershed means the land area that drains into a particular stream.
Wetlands means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
(Ord. No. 85-00, Pt. I, 12-28-00; Mo. of 1-23-01; Ord. No. 30-02, Pt. I, 7-9-02; Ord. No. 35-02, Pt. I, 9-10-02; Ord. No. 36-02, Pt. I, 9-10-02; Ord. No. 19-03, Pt. I, 7-22-03; Ord. No. 04-04, Pt. I, 6-8-04; Ord. No. 05-17, Pt. I, 11-8-05; Ord. No. 07-17, Pt. I, 7-24-07; Ord. No. 09-05, Pt. I, 2-24-09; Ord. No. 11-05, Pt. I, 3-15-11; Ord. No. 16-08 , Pt. I, 7-19-16; Ord. of 8-13-19(1) , Pt. I; Memo. of 2-9-22; Ord. of 2-8-2022 , Pt. I)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-2. - Motor vehicles in parks.
Any bike path or park trail designated as an alternative transportation road is subject to the requirements of sections 19-28 and 19-32(d).
(Ord. No. 10-04, Pt. I, 3-23-10)
Secs. 14-3—14-26. - Reserved.
