ARTICLE IX. - DISCIPLINARY ACTION AND APPEALS

Sec. 20-186. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Delinquency means violation of duty to the job requirements or county regulations.
Excessive absenteeism means the habitual or patterned use of sick leave, or leave without pay, not supported by competent medical evidence or other proof of necessity. On a national average, employees experience two (2) to three (3) incidents of sick leave absence a year. Unsubstantiated absences, in excess of the following rule of thumb, may be an indication of excessive absenteeism:
(1)
Two (2) incidents in three (3) months.
(2)
Four (4) incidents in six (6) months.
(3)
Six (6) incidents in one (1) year.
(An incident is a single day or consecutive series of absences.)
Flat fee reimbursement means a flat fee to reimburse a permanent status employee for a portion of the attorneys' fees such employee actually paid to an attorney to represent the employee in a merit system appeal, where at the end of all available appeals (including any appeals by the employee or county in court), the employee's termination or demotion is reversed. The amount of such reimbursement shall be determined by a reimbursement schedule issued in writing by the county attorney annually and approved by official action of the governing authority. Under this schedule, the flat fee amount that an employee may be reimbursed for shall be less for an appeal of a demotion than an appeal for termination.
Incompetence means the lack of qualities or the incapability of doing the job. Skills, knowledge and abilities are inadequate, unsuitable or obsolete to perform at minimally acceptable standards of performance.
Inefficiency means nonproduction, wasteful use of time, energy or material, or repeated errors and mistakes.
Insubordination means the unwillingness or refusal to perform assigned work, or deliberate failure to comply with written or verbal instructions from a proper supervisory authority.
Misconduct means mismanagement of job responsibilities and county property, intentional improper behavior on the job, or deliberate violation of county regulations.
Negligence means careless disregard for or lack of attention to job-related matters.
(Code 1976, § 2-3146; Ord. No. 16-02 , Pt. I, 3-8-16)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 20-187. - Departmental rules.
The department head of any department may establish rules which are related to the work of that department.
(Code 1976, § 2-3141)
Sec. 20-188. - Disciplinary action.
Where the department head does not deem termination warranted, as hereinafter provided, the following disciplinary actions may be taken after due consideration has been given to the nature of the cause therefor:
(1)
Suspension. An employee may be suspended for a period of one (1) or more full days, not to exceed thirty (30) days in a twelve-month period. An employee may be suspended for an indefinite period of time pending the outcome of an investigation of a crime involving moral turpitude during which the employee may have the option of using accrued annual leave credits until they are exhausted. A suspension may be appealed as prescribed in section 20-193.
(2)
Demotion. An employee may be demoted to a lower class in which the employee meets the minimum qualifications.
(3)
Reserved.
(Code 1976, § 2-3142; Ord. No. 90-28, 8-14-90; Ord. No. 06-22, Pt. I, 10-10-06)
Sec. 20-189. - Dismissal.
A permanent status employee may be dismissed by a notice in writing giving the cause of the dismissal with sufficient particularity so that the employee may be on notice of the reason for discharge in order that the employee may fully explain the conduct if so desired. Cause for dismissal shall be as outlined in section 20-191 or for other reasons relative to job performance. Dismissal for disciplinary reasons may be instituted without prior notice. Unless a written notice of dismissal is handed to the employee personally by a supervisor or other authorized person, it shall be mailed to the employee at the last known address of such employee as shown by the employee personnel file maintained in the merit system department. It shall be the duty of each employee, and no other, to keep the merit system department informed of the employee's residence address. A permanent classified employee may appeal a dismissal, including dismissal due to reduction in force, to a hearing officer by filing a written notice of the desire to appeal with the director within ten (10) days from the effective date of dismissal. If the notice of dismissal is not handed to the employee personally, it shall be deemed to have been delivered to the employee three (3) days after the date of deposit in the United States mail. Copies of all dismissal notices shall be furnished to the director.
(Code 1976, § 2-3143; Ord. No. 00-75, § 3, 7-25-00)
Sec. 20-190. - Authority for disciplinary action and discharge.
The chief executive, as the chief administrative officer of the county, shall have the authority to impose disciplinary actions and to dismiss employees as provided in this article. In addition, disciplinary action may be taken against an employee or an employee may be dismissed by the head of the department to which the employee is assigned. An employee's supervisor may propose disciplinary action or dismissal, but before the same shall become final, it must be reviewed and approved by the department head.
(Code 1976, § 2-3144)
Sec. 20-191. - Causes for dismissal or disciplinary action.
Cause for dismissal and disciplinary action shall include but not be limited to the following:
(1)
Violation of any material provision of this chapter, or other personnel rules and regulations, and any violation of section 20-20 (conflicts of interest) and section 20-20.1 (financial disclosure forms) of this chapter.
(2)
Substandard work quality.
(3)
Improper use of county equipment or property.
(4)
Selling or soliciting on county property without prior authorization.
(5)
Unauthorized use of telephone or other county communication equipment.
(6)
Conduct unbecoming an employee of the county while on duty.
(7)
Leaving the work area without permission from the supervisor.
(8)
Failure to call in when sick or absent from work otherwise without prior approval.
(9)
Neglect, carelessness or disregard of common safety practices.
(10)
Violation of departmental rules.
(11)
Malicious mischief, horseplay, wrestling, or other undesirable conduct.
(12)
Falsifying any official record or document.
(13)
Giving a false answer or false information on application.
(14)
Habitual unexcused tardiness.
(15)
Loafing, neglect of duties or otherwise wasting of working time.
(16)
Sleeping during working hours except where conditions of work authorize and warrant it.
(17)
Possession of intoxicating beverages or controlled substances at place of work, or in official county vehicles.
(18)
Possession of or bringing a firearm or other deadly weapon on county property or an official county vehicle, unless duly authorized by the department head.
(19)
Reporting to work under the influence of intoxicating beverages, or drugs not prescribed by a physician.
(20)
Fighting, threatening, intimidating, coercing or otherwise interfering with the rights of other employees.
(21)
Gambling on county property.
(22)
Insubordination or willful failure to carry out an official supervisory directive or job assignment.
(23)
Acceptance of a fee, gift or service of any item of value in return for a favor.
(24)
Loss or damage of county property through carelessness or negligence.
(25)
Violation of a safety rule which results in personal injury or property damage; refusal to use proper safety equipment when provided.
(26)
Failure of supervisor to enforce established safety regulations, or requiring employee to perform unsafe act.
(27)
Excessive absenteeism.
(28)
Exhaustion of annual leave without prior approval.
(29)
Abuse of sick leave.
(30)
Misappropriation of county funds or illegal sale or disposal of county property for personal gain, or deliberate falsification of official reports, employment application or misrepresentation of personnel information in order to qualify for appointment or promotion.
(31)
Conviction of a felony crime, or a misdemeanor involving serious moral turpitude.
(32)
Engaging in a strike, work stoppage, slowdown or act of sabotage.
(33)
Substantial incompetence or inefficiency in carrying out work assignments.
(34)
Failure to report for work without prior approval, except when sick leave is authorized.
(35)
Stealing or similar conduct, including destroying, damaging or concealment of any property of the county.
(36)
Willful damage of or attempt to damage county property.
(37)
Threatening physical violence or striking a supervisor or subordinate.
(38)
Operation of any county-owned or county-leased vehicle or equipment without proper state license or while under the influence of any medication or drug which has been prescribed by a doctor and which carries the warning not to drive or operate machinery while using same.
(Code 1976, § 2-3145; Ord. No. 10-02, Pt. II, 11-27-01)
Sec. 20-192. - Intradepartmental transfer not a disciplinary act.
An employee may be transferred to another division or facility at the discretion of the department head. The department head shall be the final arbitrator of all intradepartmental transfers and the sole judge of the need, necessity, convenience or reason for such transfer. An intradepartmental transfer shall not be construed to be a demotion unless it results in a reduction of the employee's pay.
(Code 1976, § 2-3147)
Sec. 20-193. - Review of disciplinary action (appeals).
A permanent status employee aggrieved by any suspension, demotion, or termination may appeal such aggrieved action to a hearing officer as outlined below:
(1)
All requests for review of disciplinary actions shall be filed in writing with the director within (10) days from the effective date of the disciplinary action.
(2)
A hearing officer shall be assigned, pursuant to the administrative procedures, to hear said appeal within forty-five (45) days after it is filed, during which time said hearing will convene to afford the aggrieved employee a hearing before said hearing officer, which may be continued from time to time, to fully explain his or her conduct for which he or she was disciplined.
(3)
The hearing officer may reverse a disciplinary action only upon a finding that it was based upon an error in fact or was motivated by a non-job-related factor.
(4)
The hearing officer shall issue a written decision within twenty (20) days of the hearing. The decision of the hearing officer shall be in writing, dated and signed. The written decision shall contain the findings of fact, the conclusions and, clearly set forth the basis or grounds for the decision.
(Code 1976, § 2-3148; Ord. No. 00-75, § 4, 7-25-00)
Sec. 20-194. - Review of action considered discriminatory against employee.
Any employee who believes unjust discrimination has been exercised with respect to any disciplinary action because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, political affiliation, or opinion, age, sexual orientation, or disability may appeal to a hearing officer within ten (10) days from the effective date of the action. Such appeal shall be filed with the director and set forth in detail the reasons why the employee contends the disciplinary action was based upon discrimination, including specifying the dates, times, places, and specific types of each instance of discrimination alleged. In such cases, the hearing officer may reverse the decision of the department head only on a finding that it was based on error of fact or was motivated by intentional discrimination against the employee because of membership in a protected class listed in this section. The same provisions relative to the hearing officer as outlined in section 20-193 shall also apply in the case of an employee discrimination appeal under this section.
(Code 1976, § 2-3149; Ord. No. 91-04, § 1, 2-26-91; Ord. No. 00-75, § 5, 7-25-00)
Sec. 20-195. - Review of dismissal due to reduction in force.
An employee dismissed due to reduction in force may appeal to a hearing officer within ten (10) days from the effective date of the action. This appeal request must be filed in writing with the merit system director. Such appeal shall be filed and heard in accordance with the procedures set out in this chapter; however, the right of review by the hearing officer shall be limited to whether the dismissal was in fact due to lack of work, lack of funds, lack of appropriation of funds, abolishment of the position or for other material changes in the duties of the position or the organization of the department.
(Ord. No. 00-75, § 7, 7-25-00)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 00-75, § 6, adopted July 25, 2000, repealed former § 20-195, which pertained to decisions and orders of the personnel review panel and derived from the 1976 Code, § 2-3150. Section 7 of Ord. No. 00-75 added new provisions as § 20-195.
Sec. 20-196. - Flat fee reimbursement for certain attorneys' fees incurred by employees who successfully appeal a termination or demotion.
(a)
Conditions of a flat fee reimbursement. Flat fee reimbursement shall be provided only when a permanent status employee appeals the employee's termination or demotion through the merit system appeal process and, at the end of any available appeals (including any appeals filed in court by the employee or the county), the employee's termination or demotion is reversed. In no event shall reimbursement exceed the flat fee amount provided for in the county attorney's flat fee reimbursement schedule for the year that the appeal process reaches its conclusion. Flat fee reimbursement shall be available only for successful appeals of termination and demotion actions effective on or after March 1, 2016.
(b)
Timing of requests for and payment of flat fee reimbursement. An employee who seeks to be paid a flat fee reimbursement under this provision must submit to the county's finance director documentation establishing: that the termination or demotion is reversed after all available appeals have been concluded; the amount the attorney billed the employee for services representing the employee in that merit system appeal process; and the amount the employee actually paid to the attorney for those services. This documentation must be submitted to the finance director within forty-five (45) days after the employee becomes eligible to apply for the flat fee reimbursement. If the employee timely submits sufficient documentation to the finance director, the finance director shall pay the applicable flat fee reimbursement to the employee within thirty (30) business days after such submission. If the employee fails to submit sufficient documentation to the finance director, then the finance director shall not pay the applicable flat fee reimbursement.
( Ord. No. 16-02 , Pt. I, 3-8-16)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 00-75, § 7, adopted July 25, 2000, repealed former § 20-195, which pertained to review of dismissal due to reduction in force and derived from the 1976 Code, § 2-3151.
Subsequently, Ord. No. 16-02 , Pt. I, adopted March 8, 2016 enacted new provisions to read as herein set out.
Secs. 20-197—20-199. - Reserved.
