Chapter 8 - ANIMALS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Purpose.
The purposes of this chapter are to provide for the safety, good order, general welfare treatment and maintenance of animals; to limit the number and types of animals which may be kept and maintained; to provide for control of animals; to provide for the control of rabies and zoonoses (diseases that can be transmitted to humans); to prohibit fighting dogs, cocks and other animals; to provide seizure, confinement, reclamation, forfeiture, abandonment, surrender, adoption, and disposal of animals; and to provide generally for the public health and welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. of 8-4-2009(2), § 14-20)
Sec. 8-2. - Administration and interpretations.
The authority and responsibility for administration of this chapter shall rest with the city manager, or his designee. In exercising that authority and discharging that responsibility, the city manager shall designate the animal control department head to be charged with enforcing this chapter. The animal control department shall coordinate and cooperate with the county health department and such other agencies as advisable.
(Ord. of 8-4-2009(2), § 14-22)
Sec. 8-3. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Animal means a multicellular organism of the kingdom of Animalia, differing from plants in certain typical characteristics, such as capacity for locomotion, non-photosynthetic metabolism, pronounced response to stimuli, restricted growth, and fixed bodily structure.
Animal control officer means the person charged by the city manager with enforcing this chapter.
Animal shelter means any facility chosen by the city for the purpose of impounding or harboring seized, stray, diseased, nuisance, dangerous, neglected, deprived, abused, homeless, abandoned, or unwanted animals or birds; any veterinary hospital or clinic operated by a veterinarian which operates for such purpose, in addition to its customary purposes; and any facility operated, owned, or maintained by other nonprofit organizations for the purpose of providing for and promoting the welfare, protection and humane treatment of animals.
At large means that an animal is in any public street, right-of-way, park or other public grounds, or when off the premises of the owner or person who has custody of the animal and not under restraint or under the immediate control (at heel) of the owner or the person who has custody of the animal.
Bite means to be seized with the teeth or jaws so that a person or animal has been nipped, gripped, wounded or pierced and saliva of the biting animal has or may have contacted the resulting break or abrasion of the skin.
Board of health means the county board of health and includes officers, officials and employees of such board of health acting within the scope of their authority.
Breeder-hobbyist means a person who maintains more than four animals of any breeds or species of animal as a hobby, but produces not more than two litters of any species of animal in any 12-month period.
Breeder-professional means a person who breeds animals for purposes of sale and maintains a current business license or who produces more than two litters of species of animals in any 12-month period and who maintains affiliation in a nationally recognized society for the betterment, control, and/or competitive display of the animal species.
Cat means a feline of whatever breed and all ages.
Court means the municipal court of the city with jurisdiction to hear violations of all city ordinances.
Custodian means any person within the city whom has responsibility for or exercises custody, charge, or control over an animal or harbors, maintains or keeps an animal.
Dangerous dog means any dog that:
(1)
Causes a substantial puncture of a person's skin by teeth without causing serious injury; provided, however, that a nip, scratch, or abrasion shall not be sufficient to classify a dog as dangerous under this subsection;
(2)
Aggressively attacks in a manner that causes a person to reasonably believe that the dog posed an imminent threat of serious injury to such person or another person although no such injury occurs; provided, however, that the acts of barking, growling, or showing of teeth by a dog shall not be sufficient to classify a dog as dangerous under this subsection; or
(3)
While off the owner's property, kills a pet animal; provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply where the death of such pet animal is caused by a dog that is working or training as a hunting dog, herding dog, or predator control dog.
Dead animal means the carcass, parts of the carcass, effluent, and blood of deceased animals.
Diseased animal means any animal which is suffering from any disease or condition for which the animal is subject to quarantine or which is both contagious and deadly to humans or any other animal.
Dog means a canine of whatever breed and all ages.
Domestic animal means dogs, cats, livestock, poultry, confined domestic hares and rabbits, and all other animals and birds raised or maintained in confinement as pets or for work, food or recreational purposes.
Equine means any member of the equidae species, including horses, mules, and asses.
Euthanasia means a death brought about by any method which produces rapid loss of consciousness to painless death.
Exposed to rabies means that a person or an animal has been bitten by, or exposed to any warm-blooded animal known or suspected to have been infected with rabies.
Fighting or attack dog or animal means that a person or an animal has been bitten by, or exposed to any warm-blooded animal known or suspected to have been infected with rabies.
Harboring means the keeping of an animal or allowing an animal to return daily for food and care for a period of ten days or more.
Humane manner means the care of an animal, to include protection from injury, adequate coolness and heat, ventilation, sanitary shelter, wholesome food and water that are consistent with the normal requirements and breeding habit of the animal's size, species and breed.
Kennel means an establishment kept for the purpose of breeding, selling, training or boarding animals.
Nuisance animal. An animal shall be deemed to be a public nuisance if the animal:
(1)
Is habitually permitted to go upon the property of another person other than its owner or keeper without the express consent of such other property owner or occupant.
(2)
Attacks or acts so as to menace pedestrians or other persons using public ways.
(3)
Habitually barks, whines or howls in an excessive, continuous, or untimely fashion.
(4)
Is repeatedly at large.
(5)
Causes an unsanitary, dangerous or offensive condition; or creates an accumulation of excreta which has the potential of becoming an insect breeding site; or creates noxious or offensive odors which are detectable outside the property of the owner or custodian thereof; provided, however, that such term shall not apply to animals owned as part of farm or ranch operations or to animals at a location which has a current valid kennel license for operation at a location where such activities are permitted, pursuant to the zoning ordinance of the city.
(6)
Does not have proof of rabies inoculation, if required;
(7)
Is trained, owned, or harbored for the purpose, primary or in part, for animal fighting;
(8)
Is kept or maintained contrary to the public health, welfare or safety according to the rules and regulations promulgated by the health department, which rules and regulations are incorporated and made a part of this chapter as if fully set out;
Poison means a substance that, through its chemical action, usually kills, injures or impairs an organism.
Potentially dangerous dog means any dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise threaten persons without provocation; or any dog that, unprovoked:
(1)
Chases or approaches a human being or other domestic animal on any public or private property in a vicious or terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of attack; or
(2)
Attempts to attack a human or another domestic animal.
Poultry means any domestic fowl including, but not limited to, chickens and water fowl, such as geese and ducks; birds which are bred for meat and egg production, exhibition, or competition; and game birds such as pheasants, partridge, quail, and grouse, as well as guinea fowl, pigeons, doves, and peafowl, to include ratite, rhea, emus and ostrich.
Pound means those premises designated by the mayor and council, the city manager or the animal control department head for the purpose of holding and caring for animals found to be at large by those persons charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
Proper enclosure means an enclosure for keeping a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog while on the owner's property securely enclosed indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen, fence or structure suitable to prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the dog from escaping. Any such pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top; and, if the dog is enclosed with a fence, all sides of the fence shall be of sufficient height and the bottom of the fence constructed or secured in such a manner as to prevent the dog's escape either from over or from under the fence. Any such enclosure shall also provide protection from the elements for the dog.
Residence means an address in the city at which a person or persons regularly reside. For the purpose of this code section it shall not mean a vacant and unoccupied home.
Serious injury means any physical injury that creates a substantial risk of death; results in death, broken or dislocated bones, lacerations requiring multiple sutures, or disfiguring avulsions; requires plastic surgery or admission to a hospital; or results in protracted impairment of health, including transmission of an infection or contagious disease, or impairment of the function of any bodily organ.
Stray means an animal running at large in the city that no one claims ownership of.
Tether means use of a rope, chain or other such restraining cord which is designed to prevent an animal from moving away from a restricted area or locality.
Swine means any hog or pig or other member of the porcine family, whether domestic or exotic.
Under restraint means secured by a leash or lead, not to exceed six feet in length, held by a responsible, able-bodied person.
Vicious dog means a dog that inflicts serious injury on a person or causes serious injury to a person resulting from reasonable attempts to escape from the dog's attack.
(Ord. of 8-4-2009(2), § 14-24; Ord. No. 11-01-22, § 1, 12-6-2022)
Sec. 8-4. - Rights of officials to enter premises.
(a)
Whenever an animal control officer, health department representative, or his authorized representative, any law enforcement officer, or other city official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any premises any violation of the provisions of this chapter or any other applicable law, or whenever it is necessary for such official to make an inspection to enforce any provision or perform any duty imposed by this chapter, or any other applicable law, he shall have the right to enter such property at any reasonable time to inspect and perform any duty imposed by this chapter or any other applicable law, provided that:
(1)
If such property is occupied, he shall first present proper credentials to the occupant and request entry, explaining his reasons;
(2)
If such property is unoccupied, he shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or the person having charge or control of the property and request entry, explaining his reasons; and
(3)
If such entry is refused or cannot be obtained because the owner or other person having charge or control of the property cannot be found after due diligence, recourse shall be had to every remedy provided by law to secure lawful entry and inspection of the property.
(b)
Nothing in this section shall affect or otherwise abridge the right of any animal control officer to pursue or impound an animal or to issue a citation when an animal is on property other than that of the owner of the animal or that of a person who has a right to control such animal.
(Ord. of 8-4-2009(2), § 14-25)
Sec. 8-5. - Rights of officials for emergency entry.
If an animal control officer, health department representative, any law enforcement officer, or other city official has reasonable cause to believe that the keeping or maintaining of any animal is so hazardous, unsafe or dangerous as to require immediate inspection to save the animal or protect the public health or safety, he shall have the right to immediately enter and inspect such property, and may use reasonable means required to effect such entry and make inspection, whether such property is occupied or unoccupied and whether or not permission to inspect has been obtained. If the property is occupied, he shall first present proper credentials to the occupant and demand entry, explaining his reasons and the purpose of the inspection.
(Ord. of 8-4-2009(2), § 14-26)
Sec. 8-6. - Interference with officials prohibited.
No person shall resist or interfere with an animal control officer or any other city official in the performance of his official duty in enforcing this chapter; nor shall any person fail or refuse to exhibit the vaccination certificate of any animal required to be vaccinated by this chapter when required to do so by any animal control officer or other city official.
(Ord. of 8-4-2009(2), § 14-27)
Sec. 8-7. - Interference with animal control shelter or facility.
It shall be unlawful for anyone to interfere with the operation of any animal shelter or facility maintained for the confinement of animals under the supervision of the city, or to remove any animal kept therein from any such animal shelter or facility without the consent of the operator of the animal shelter or facility; or to resist, hinder, delay, interfere with or molest any person, agent, employee or member of any organization or entity operating such animal shelter or facility in the performance of his duties or responsibilities.
(Ord. of 8-4-2009(2), § 14-28)
Secs. 8-8—8-32. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - REGULATION OF ANIMALS

Sec. 8-33. - Disposition of strays.
Any stray dog, cat, other pet animal or other animal found upon the streets or public places of the city shall be disposed of in such humane manner as determined by the city manager.
(Ord. of 8-4-2009(2), § 14-29)
Sec. 8-34. - Dead animals, removal and disposal of remains.
The owner of any dead animal found in the city, whether on public lands, rights-of-way, or private property, shall remove the remains and dispose of the carcass, as provided by O.C.G.A. § 4-5-5.
Sec. 8-35. - At large animal declared nuisance.
(a)
No person owning, having an interest in, harboring or having the care, charge, control or possession of any animal shall permit or allow it (either willfully or through failure to exercise due care of control) to be, remain, go, or run at large upon a public right-of-way, park or other public space or any open lot or land in the city other than the property of the said animal's owner. The presence of any animal upon a public right-of way, park or other public space or upon any open lot or land in the city other than the property of the said animal's owner, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the health and safety of the public.
(b)
All animals found to be at large in violation of this chapter may be impounded in the manner proscribed in this chapter.
(c)
Should an animal at large be classified as a dangerous dog or a vicious dog then the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 4-8-29 shall apply.
(Ord. No. 11-01-22, § 2, 12-6-2022)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 11-01-22, § 2, adopted Dec. 6, 2022, repealed the former § 8-35, and enacted a new § 8-35 as set out herein. The former § 8-35 pertained to allowing animals to roam at large and derived from Ord. of 8-4-2009(2), § 14-34.
Sec. 8-36. - Livestock at large.
No one shall allow or permit any livestock to run at large.
(Ord. of 8-4-2009(2), § 14-35)
Sec. 8-37. - Fowl and poultry at large.
It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any fowl or poultry to run at large.
(Ord. of 8-4-2009(2), § 14-36)
Sec. 8-38. - Abandonment of animals.
No person shall release an animal or leave an animal on any property, public or private with the intention of abandoning the animal.
(Ord. of 8-4-2009(2), § 14-38)
Sec. 8-39. - Liability of owner or custodian for damages to livestock, poultry and property by an animal.
(a)
The owner of or, if no owner can be found, the custodian exercising care and control over any animal that goes upon land of another and causes injury, death or damage directly or indirectly to any livestock, poultry or property shall be civilly liable to the owner of the livestock, poultry or property for damages, death, or injury caused by the animal. The liability of the owner or custodian of the dog or other animal causing such damage, death or injury shall include consequential damages.
(b)
This section is to be considered cumulative of other remedies provided by law. There is no intent to do away with or limit other causes of action that might inure to any damaged owner of livestock, poultry or property.
(Ord. of 8-4-2009(2), § 14-39)
Sec. 8-40. - Prohibited animals.
Except to the extent otherwise authorized in this chapter, no person shall own, have, keep or maintain within the city any of the following:
(1)
Any poisonous or venomous biting or injecting species of amphibian or reptile, including snakes.
(2)
Any animal listed as inherently dangerous to humans pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 27-5-4 or determined by regulation of the state board of natural resources.
(3)
Any animal, bird, fish or insect, either dead or alive, and including any body or part thereof, which then appears on the endangered species list designated by the United States Secretary of the Interior and published in the Code of Federal Regulations pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973 or which is protected under any federal or state law or regulation which has as its purpose the protection of endangered or threatened species.
(4)
Any animal, which is afflicted with any disease, which is contagious to humans or other animals and is not under treatment for that disease.
(5)
Any carnivorous animal which has not been domesticated or which has a dangerous propensity toward any person, any other animal or any property of anyone other than the owner or custodian thereof.
(6)
Any animal pet which has not been currently inoculated for rabies as required by state law.
(7)
Any animal pet which has been inoculated for rabies without identifiable proof of inoculation for rabies.
(8)
The provisions of this section shall not apply to the following as long as they have a current valid license for such business:
a.
Animal dealers;
b.
Livestock dealers;
c.
Livestock market operators;
d.
Kennels or professional breeders.
(Ord. of 8-4-2009(2), § 14-41)
Sec. 8-41. - Dangerous dogs.
(a)
Upon receiving a report of a dog believed to be subject to classification as a dangerous dog is within the city, the city manager, or his designee, shall make such investigations as necessary to determine whether such dog is subject to classification as a dangerous dog, as defined in this chapter.
(b)
When the city manager, or other designated officer, determines that a dog is subject to classification as a dangerous dog, the officer shall mail a dated notice to the dog's owner within 72 hours. Such notice shall include a summary of the officer's determination and shall state that the owner has a right to request a hearing within seven days after the date shown on the notice; provided, however, that if an authority has not been established for the jurisdiction, the owner shall be informed of the right to request a hearing from the probate court for such jurisdiction where the dog was found or confiscated within seven days after the date shown on the notice. The notice shall provide a form for requesting the hearing and shall state that if a hearing is not requested within the allotted time, the officer's determination shall become effective for all purposes under this chapter. If an owner cannot be located within ten days of the officer's determination that a dog is subject to classification as a dangerous dog, such dog may be released to an animal shelter or humanely euthanized, as determined by the city manager.
(c)
When a hearing is requested by a dog owner in accordance with subsection (b) of this section, such hearing shall be scheduled within 30 days after the request is received; provided, however, that such hearing may be continued by the authority or probate court for good cause shown. At least ten days prior to the hearing, the authority or probate court conducting the hearing shall mail to the dog owner written notice of the date, time, and place of the hearing. At the hearing, the dog owner shall be given the opportunity to testify and present evidence and the authority or probate court conducting the hearing shall receive other evidence and testimony as may be reasonably necessary to sustain, modify, or overrule the officer's determination.
(d)
Within ten days after the hearing, the authority or probate court which conducted the hearing shall mail written notice to the dog owner of its determination on the matter. If such determination is that the dog is a dangerous dog, the notice of classification shall specify the date upon which that determination shall be effective. If the determination is that the dog is to be euthanized pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 4-8-26, the notice shall specify the date by which the euthanasia shall occur.
(e)
Judicial review of the authority's final decision may be had in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 15-9-30.9. Judicial review of a probate court's final decision shall be in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 5-3-2 and costs shall be paid, as provided in O.C.G.A. § 5-3-22.
Sec. 8-42. - Potentially dangerous dogs.
Any dog meeting the definition of a potentially dangerous dog, as defined, shall be kept in a proper enclosure, as defined in this chapter. The city manager may, in his discretion, provide notice to any owner or custodian that a dog is deemed or accused as potentially dangerous. The investigation, notice and determination of a potentially dangerous dog by the city manager, or his designee, shall be administered as provided in this chapter for dangerous dogs.
Sec. 8-43. - Habitually noisy animals.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly keep or harbor any animal which habitually barks, howls, yelps, or cries to the great discomfort, annoyance or the peace and quiet of the neighborhood or in such a manner as to materially disturb or annoy persons in the neighborhood who are of ordinary sensibilities. Such animals are hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(b)
An animal is considered to be in violation of this section when it causes a disturbance by 15 minutes or more of excessive barking and there are two or more complaints filed by different adult complainants in and from the neighborhood within a two-week period.
(Ord. No. 11-01-22, § 3, 12-6-2022)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 11-01-22, § 3, adopted Dec. 6, 2022, repealed the former § 8-43, and enacted a new § 8-43 as set out herein. The former § 8-43 pertained to nuisance animals and derived from the original codification.
Sec. 8-44. - Nuisance procedure.
(a)
No person shall allow any animal over which they have custody or control to remain on their property or premises if the same shall constitute a nuisance.
(b)
The city manager, or designee, upon formal complaint by any citizen concerning an animal, shall conduct an investigation to determine whether the animal constitutes a nuisance. If the investigation concludes that the animal does constitute a nuisance, the owner of the animal shall be so notified and shall be given a reasonable period of time in order to correct those conditions constituting the nuisance. Failure to correct said nuisance within a period of time considered by the city manager, or designee, to be reasonable under the circumstances. Failure to timely correct said nuisance shall be punished as prescribed in section 1.11.
(Ord. No. 11-01-22, § 4, 12-6-2022)
Sec. 8-45. - Unlawful treatment of a dog.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any owner or other person controlling or possessing any dog to:
(1)
Leave a dog tethered outdoors while unattended, unless the dog has adequate shelter, potable water, shade from direct sunlight and an area that allows the dog to avoid standing water.
(2)
Tether, fasten, chain, tie or restrain a dog, except by means of a properly fitting harness or collar of nylon or leather construction and a tether in proportion to the size of the animal. The tether must be at least 15 feet in length with a swivel at both ends.
(3)
Tether a dog outdoors under conditions where the animal or tether can become entangled on the tether, another animal, or some other object, or where the tether can restrict the tethered animals access to suitable, edible, and sufficient food, clean water (cool in summer and unfrozen in winter), and appropriate shelter.
(4)
Tether a dog for more than ten hours in a 24-hour period or for more than 15 hours in a 24-hour period if the tether is to a running line, pulley or trolley system.
(5)
Tether the dog outdoors in unsafe or unsanitary conditions, or when said tether does not allow the animal to defecate or urinate in an area separate from the area where it must eat, drink or lie down.
(6)
Expose a dog to any weather conditions that cause immediate imminent threat to the animal's well-being.
(b)
A person who is convicted of, or pleads guilty or nolo contendere to, a violation of this section shall suffer the following minimum punishment:
(1)
First offense minimum fine: $50.00.
(2)
Second offense within a one-year period, minimum fine: $100.00.
(3)
Third offense within a one-year period, minimum fine: $250.00.
(4)
Forth or subsequent offense within a one-year period, minimum fine: $500.00.
(Ord. No. 11-01-22, § 5, 12-6-2022)
Sec. 8-46. - Keeping of dogs.
(a)
Except for a person in an occupation requiring or involving the keeping of animals located within areas permitted by the city zoning regulations, no person shall be allowed to keep more than four dogs at any location. Puppies less the ten weeks old shall be excluded.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to house, keep or maintain dogs at a residence property at which no person regularly resides.
(Ord. No. 11-01-22, § 6, 12-6-2022)
Secs. -  8-47—8-74. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - BIRDS

Sec. 8-75. - City designated bird sanctuary.
The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
(Code 1984, § 11-4-1; Code 1996, § 14-1; Ord. of 8-4-2009(2), § 14-1)
Sec. 8-76. - Birds protected; abatement of conditions creating nuisance or a menace to health and property.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or molest in any manner any bird or wild fowl or to rob bird's nests or wild fowl nests; provided, however, that if starlings or similar birds are found congregating in such numbers in a particular locality so that they constitute a nuisance or menace to health or property, in the opinion of the proper authorities of the city, then, in such event, such authorities, or others designated by the mayor and council, shall meet with representatives of the Audubon Society, Bird Club, Garden Club or Humane Society, or as many of these clubs as are found to exist in the city, after having given such clubs at least three days' actual notice of the time and place of the meeting to the representatives of these clubs.
(b)
If, as a result of the meeting, no satisfactory alternative is found to abate such nuisance, then the birds may be destroyed in such numbers and such manner as is deemed advisable by the designee of the mayor and council, under the supervision and at the direction of the chief of police.
(Code 1984, § 11-4-2; Code 1996, § 14-2; Ord. of 8-4-2009(2), § 14-2)
