Chapter 14 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
FOOTNOTE(S):
(10) State Law reference— Construction standards generally, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Water conservations requirements for plumbing fixtures.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial means any type of building other than residential.
Construction means the erection of a new building or the alteration of an existing building in connection with its repair or renovation or in connection with making an addition to an existing building and shall include the replacement of a malfunctioning, unserviceable, or obsolete faucet, showerhead, toilet, or urinal in an existing building.
Residential means any building or unit of a building intended for occupancy as a dwelling but shall not include a hotel or motel.
(b)
Requirements. No construction may be initiated within the unincorporated areas of the County for any residential or commercial building of any type which:
(1)
Employs a gravity tank-type, flushometer-valve, or flushometer-tank toilet that uses more than an average of 1.6 gallons of water per flush;
(2)
Employs a shower head that allows a flow of more than an average of 2.5 gallons of water per minute at 60 pounds per square inch of pressure;
(3)
Employs a urinal that uses more than an average of 1.0 gallon of water per flush;
(4)
Employs a lavatory faucet or lavatory replacement aerator that allows a flow of more than 2.0 gallons of water per minute; or
(5)
Employs a kitchen faucet or kitchen replacement aerator that allows a flow of more than 2.5 gallons of water per minute.
(c)
Repair, renovation, and addition requirements. The requirements of subsection (b) of this section shall apply to any residential construction and to any commercial construction which involves the repair or renovation of, or addition to, any existing building when such repair or renovation of, or addition to, such existing building includes replacement of toilets or showers or both.
(d)
Exemptions.
(1)
New construction and the repair and renovation of an existing building shall be exempt from the requirements of Subsection (b) and (c) of this section when:
a.
The repair or renovation of, or addition to the existing building does not include the replacement of the plumbing or sewage system servicing toilets, faucets or shower heads within such existing building;
b.
When such plumbing or sewage system within such existing building, because of its capacity, design, or installation, would not function properly if the toilets, faucets or shower heads required by this section were installed;
c.
When such system is a well or gravity flow from a spring and is owned privately by an individual for use is such individual's personal residence; or
d.
When units to be installed are:
1.
Specifically designed for use by persons with disabilities;
2.
Specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or installation in a penal institution; or
3.
Toilets for juveniles.
(2)
The owner, or agent thereof, of a building undergoing new construction or repair or renovation who is entitled to an exemption as specified in Subsection (d)(1) a., b. or c. of this section shall obtain the exemption by applying at the office of the Dooly County Planning Department.
(e)
Enforcement. This article shall be enforced by the office of the Dooly County Permit Office citations for violations may be issued by the Building Inspector of Dooly County or his designee.
(Ord. of 6-18-1998, §§ 1—4, 6)
State law reference— Water conservation requirements for plumbing fixtures, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-3.
Secs. 14-2—14-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TECHNICAL CODES

FOOTNOTE(S):
(11) State Law reference— State mandated technical codes, O.C.G.A. § 9-2-20 et seq.
Sec. 14-31. - Adopted.
DOOLY COUNTY, GEORGIA All Codes, promulgated pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 8, ch 2, art. I, pt. 2 (O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 et seq.), together with all provisions for implementation and enforcement as contained therein, are hereby adopted by reference as though they were copied herein fully.
(Ord. of 3-7-1996, § 1)
Sec. 14-32. - Enforcement.
Within the codes adopted in this article, when reference is made to the duties of a certain official named therein, the designated official of the County, who has duties corresponding to those of the named official in the code shall be deemed to be the responsible official insofar as enforcing the provisions of the codes.
(Ord. of 3-7-1996, § 3)
