Chapter 30 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

FOOTNOTE(S):
(13) State Law reference— Authority to adopt ordinances for the purpose of preserving public health, safety and welfare, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20.
Sec. 30-1. - Public nudity.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Entity means any proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association, business trust, joint venture, joint-stock company or other for profit and/or not for profit organization.
Nude means any person insufficiently clothed in any manner so that any of the following body parts are not entirely covered with a fully opaque covering:
(1)
The male or female genitals;
(2)
The male or female pubic area;
(3)
The female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or
(4)
The buttocks, which is defined as the one-third of the gluteus maximus that is centered over the cleavage of the gluteus maximus for the length of the cleavage. Attire which is insufficient to comply with this requirement includes, but is not limited to, G-strings, T-backs, dental floss and thongs.
(5)
Body paint, body dyes, tattoos, liquid latex, whether wet or dried, and similar substances, shall not be considered opaque covering.
Person means any live human being ten years of age or older.
Places provided or set apart for nudity include, but are not limited to, enclosed single sex public restrooms, enclosed single sex functional showers, lockers and/or dressing room facilities, enclosed motel and hotel rooms designed and intended for sleeping accommodations, doctor's offices, portions of hospitals and other places in which nudity or exposure is necessarily or customarily expected outside of the home and its sphere of privacy constitutionally protected therein. This term shall not be deemed to include places where a person's conduct of being nude is used for his profit or where being nude is used for the purpose of entertaining others.
Public place means any location where the public is generally and openly invited or may by legal right be present, and where a person may reasonably be expected to be observed by members of the public. Public places include, but are not limited to, publicly-owned or publicly-maintained streets, sidewalks and parks, and all commercial establishments. Premises or portions thereof, such as hotel rooms, used solely as a private residence, whether permanent or temporary in nature, shall not be deemed to be a public place.
(b)
It is the intent of this section to protect and preserve the health, safety, welfare and morals of the citizens of the county by prohibiting a person from intentionally or recklessly appearing or being nude, or causing another person to appear to be nude, in a public place and in other places which may reasonably be expected to be observed by the public within the unincorporated areas of the county, except when such person appears nude in a place provided or set apart for nudity provided such person:
(1)
Is nude for the sole purpose of performing the legal function that is customarily intended to be performed within such place provided or set apart for nudity; and
(2)
Is not nude for the purpose of obtaining money or other financial gain for such person or for another person or entity.
(c)
The prohibitions of Subsection (d) of this section shall not apply when a person appears nude in a place provided or set apart for nudity provided such person:
(1)
Is nude for the sole purpose of performing the legal function that is customarily intended to be performed within such place provided or set apart for nudity; and
(2)
Is not nude for the purpose of obtaining money or other financial gain for such person or for another person or entity.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly, intentionally or recklessly appear, or cause another person to appear, nude in a public place or in any other place which is readily visible to the public. It shall also be unlawful for any person or entity maintaining, owning or operating any public place establishment to encourage, suffer or allow any person to appear nude in such public place.
(Ord. of 1-19-1994, §§ 1, 2)
State law reference— Obscenity, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-80 et seq.
