DOOLY COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE

Sec. 1. - Title and Objectives.
This ordinance shall be known as the "Zoning Ordinance of Dooly County, Georgia," for the purpose of setting forth standards and permissible uses of land designed to conserve and protect the natural, economic and scenic resources of Dooly County; to secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers; to promote health, aesthetics, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to promote desirable living conditions and stability in neighborhoods; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements by dividing Dooly County into districts of such size and shapes as may be best suited to carry out the purposes of the legislative act and of this resolution.
Sec. 2. - Legislative Authority.
Counties of the State of Georgia are authorized by the 1983 Georgia State Constitution, Article 9, Section 2, Paragraph 4, and Chapter 66 of Title 36 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated (O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.), to exercise the powers of planning and zoning; and it is hereby determined by the Board of Commissioners of Dooly County, Georgia, that it is necessary and desirable to adopt these zoning regulations under the authority of the above cited Constitutional and statutory provisions.
Sec. 3. - Method of Regulation.
Now therefore be it resolved that the Board of Commissioners of Dooly County, Georgia, as authorized by the Constitution of the State of Georgia, having previously created a Planning Commission known as the Dooly County Planning Commission does hereby adopt these zoning regulations for the following purposes: (1) to define certain words used herein; (2) to create zone boundaries; (3) to regulate the location of trades, professions, businesses, and industries; (4) to regulate the density in distribution of population; (5) to provide for the gradual elimination of nonconforming uses of land, buildings and structures; (6) to provide for the method of administration, amendment and enforcement; (7) to provide for imposition of penalties for violations; (8) to repeal conflicting ordinances and resolutions; (9) and for other purposes.
Sec. 4. - Jurisdiction.
This zoning ordinance shall govern the use of all land and development within the unincorporated limits of Dooly County, Georgia, and within the limits of any inactive municipality in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-70-5.
Sec. 5. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this resolution, words in the singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the singular number unless the obvious construction of the wording indicates otherwise.
The word "shall" is mandatory. Unless otherwise specified, all distances shall be measured horizontally and at right angles to the line relation to which the distance is specified. The word "lot" includes the word "plot"; the word "used" shall be deemed also to include "designed," "intended," or "arranged to be used"; the term "erected" shall be deemed also to include "constructed," "reconstructed," "altered," "placed," or "moved". The terms "land use" and "use of land" shall be deemed also to include "building use" and "use of building". The word "adjacent" means "nearby" and not necessarily "contiguous."
Accessory Building or Accessory Use: A subordinate building for or use such as a garage, workshop and the like customarily incidental to and located on the same lot with the main building or use.
Agriculture or Agricultural: The bona fide use of a parcel of land of ten acres or more for the cultivation of land, raising of poultry and/or livestock, or for similar agrarian activity for gain or profit, and the related buildings, structures, and appurtenances associated with or necessary to carry out the aforementioned activities.
Airfield: Any area of land or water with airspace certified by the Federal Aviation Administration and utilized for the landing or taking off of aircraft.
Airport: Any area of land or water with airspace certified by the Federal Aviation Administration and designed and set aside for the landing and taking off of aircraft, and utilized, or to be utilized, in the public interest for such purposes. An airport shall include all runways, terminal buildings, hangars, and related facilities located on the airport premises.
Apartment Building: A single-structure located on a parcel of land under single or joint ownership, containing four or more independent, residential units cooking facilities for the sole use of each residential unit.
Automobile Sales Lot: An open premises arranged, designed, or used for storage and display for sale of any motorized vehicle and/or trailer which can be towed legally on Georgia roadways.
Base Flood: The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Base flood is synonymous with the term "regional" or "100-year" flood.
Biomedical Waste Facility: Any facility or location where the final disposition of any amount of biomedical waste (as that term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22, as amended) occurs, whether or not mixed with or including other waste allowed under Subtitle D of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, and includes, but is not limited to, biomedical waste landfills and biomedical waste thermal treatment technology facilities.
Boarding House: A dwelling in which lodging and meals are furnished for consideration. Maximum occupancy shall be governed by life safety codes.
Building: Any structure, either temporary or permanent, above or below ground, having a roof or other covering and designed, built, or used as a shelter or enclosure for persons, animals, or property of any kind including tents or awnings used for purposes of a building.
Building Line: A line beyond which the foundation wall and any roofed porch, vestibule or other such portion of a building shall not project.
Building, Principal: The building in which is conducted the principal and primary use of the lot on which the structure is situated.
Care Home: A rest home, nursing home, convalescent home, home for the aged or similar use established and operated on a profit or non-profit basis to provide lodging and meals and domiciliary care for the aged, infirm, chronically ill or convalescent persons. The term "care home" shall include the term "extended care facility" as defined by Georgia Law. Such facility shall be licensed pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 31-7-12 as appropriate.
Caretaker or Employee Residence: An accessory residence (including mobile and manufactured homes) placed on an otherwise occupied tract for use by a bona fide caretaker, employee or the owner himself.
Church, Club or Lodge: Building in which organized religious, fraternal, recreational, social or educational meetings are conducted on a regular non-profit basis. Fraternal organizations must show that they have received recognition and sanction from a parent group or organization. A private club must show that its membership is limited by either: (a) the use and operation of an amateur athletic facility including but not limited to golf courses, tennis courts, shooting ranges or swimming pools; or (b) residency in a particular subdivision, condominium, apartment project or other residential development.
Conditional Use: A use which is not permitted inherently in a specific zoning district, but which may be permitted under specific conditions subject to approval by the Board of Commissioners.
Condominium: A building or building on a single parcel comprised of multiple dwelling units in which each tenant holds full title to his dwelling unit and joint ownership in the common grounds.
Cul-de-sac: A street which has one end open to traffic and the other end permanently terminated by a vehicular turn-around.
Day Care Center: An establishment operating for profit which provides care and education for six or more children opened for the major portion of the day or night and in which meals are served.
Designated Official: The official or other designated authority charged by the Dooly County Board of Commissioners with the administration and enforcement of this resolution or his duly appointed representative.
Drive-In: Any retail or service enterprise wherein a good or service is provided to the consumer on the inside of the principal building and to the consumer while in his motor vehicle through an exterior wall of the principle building. The term "drive-in" includes but is not limited to drive-in restaurants and dairy bars, theaters, banks, laundries, food stores and car washes.
Dwelling Unit: A building or portion thereof arranged or designed for occupancy by not more than one family for living purposes and having cooking facilities.
Easement: A grant to a person or to the public by a property owner of a strip of his land for road right-of-way or other specified purposes.
Equestrian Center: A tract of land of five acres or more on which more than four adult horses are kept for the purpose of training boarding, sale or breeding, or where instruction pertaining to the same is given for a fee. For the purposes of this zoning ordinance this term includes facilities for riding trails and rings, shows, competitive equestrian events and riding lessons.
Family: One or more persons permanently occupying a single dwelling unit, provided that unless all members are related by blood, marriage, or adoption, including foster children, as that term is defined under Georgia Law, no single dwelling unit shall contain over five persons.
Farm: A parcel of land consisting of a minimum of ten acres on which bona fide agricultural and related uses are conducted as specified in "agriculture".
Flood or Flooding: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from: (1) the overflow of inland or tidal waters, or (2) the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
Flood Zone: Zones as they appear on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) in which the risk premium insurance rates have been established by a Flood Insurance Study.
Floodplain: The low-lying and relatively flat areas adjoining inland waters, and including, at a minimum, that area subject to a one percent or greater change of flooding in any given year.
Floodway: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
Frontage: That dimension of a lot measured along the front right-of-way line thereof or if said front right-of-way line is curved along the chord of the arc.
Garage, Repair: Building(s) and premises designed or used for the purpose of service or commercial repair of motor vehicles, provided (1) that all body work and painting shall be conducted within fully enclosed buildings, (2) that the storage of junk, wrecked vehicles, dismantled parts or supplies shall be solely for the purpose repairing motor vehicles and not as a salvage or junkyard business, and (3) that the storage of junk, wrecked vehicles, dismantled parts or supplies not be visible beyond the premises.
Group Home: A residence under the ownership and supervision of a public educational or governmental institution occupied or intended for occupancy by several unrelated persons or families, and in which cooking facilities are shared among all resident persons or families.
Hazardous Waste: Any solid waste which has been defined as a hazardous waste in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the federal act which are in force and effect on February 1, 1991, codified as 40 CFR Section 261.3 and any designated hazardous waste, and as that term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-62, as amended.
Hazardous Waste Facility: Any property or facility that is intended or used for storage, treatment, or disposal of hazardous waste and which has been legally certified, licensed, approved and otherwise sanctioned by the appropriate state and federal agencies.
Home Occupation: An occupation or profession conducted entirely within a dwelling and which is carried on by a resident thereof and no more than two nonresidents, and which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes. A Home Occupation does not allow access by the public. A Home Occupation is designed to be less restrictive than a Home Office but more restrictive than a Residential Business in regard to access by the public, size, visibility, number of employees and types of business.
Home Office: An office use conducted entirely within a dwelling which is carried on by a occupant thereof and no other individual, and which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The office may be for the purpose of service or tradeworkers who customarily work at various locations, such as electricians, plumbers, appraisers, real estate salespersons, or individuals who work at home, such as writers or computer programmers. There will be no changes which would alter the character of the dwelling or reveal from the exterior that the dwelling is being used in part for other than residential purposes. The office shall be limited to one room of the dwelling and not exceed more than 300 square feet in area. Home Office shall not include any business which involves the sale, manufacture or repair of merchandise on the premises. Home Offices shall also not include any business requiring access by the public, including, but not limited to, customers, clients or vendors. No outside storage or display, including signs, is permitted and no one other than family members who reside on the premises may be employed in the office.
Hospital: Any institution receiving patients and rendering medical care including those wherein mentally retarded, mentally disturbed, epileptic, alcoholic or drug addicted, chronically ill and physically disabled patients are treated or cared for. Such facility shall be legally and properly certified, licensed, approved and otherwise sanctioned by the appropriate state or federal agency.
Industrial Park: A tract of land subdivided and developed according to a comprehensive development plan in a manner which provides a park setting for industrial establishments.
Kennel, Commercial: Any place in or at which more than four adult dogs, cats, rabbits or other domesticated animals are kept for the purpose of sale, boarding, care, breeding or training, and for which any fee is charged for such services. This term does not apply to similar facilities operated for agrarian or agricultural purposes.
Laboratory: An establishment or premises where scientific services are provided including testing or analysis of medical, chemical, physical, mechanical, electric or electronic nature, or the calibration of instruments.
Landfill: An area of land on which or an excavation in which solid waste is placed for permanent disposal and which is not a land application unit, surface impoundment, injection well, or compost pile, and as that term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22, as amended.
Lodging Home: See "boarding house".
Lot: A parcel of land which satisfies the area requirements for the district within which it is located, or on which exists a legal nonconforming use, and has frontage along or legal access to a public right-of-way, and is intended as a unit for transfer of ownership or for building development. A lot shall have a separate tax parcel reference number designated in the office of the County Tax Commissioner and/or the County Tax Appraiser.
Lot, Interior: A lot other than a corner lot.
Lot Line, Front: The front property line coincident with the street right-of-way line. The front lot line of a corner lot shall be the lot line facing the principal building entrance.
Lot Line, Rear: The rear lot line is generally opposite the front lot line. If the rear lot line is less than ten feet in length or if the lot comes to a point at the rear, the rear lot line shall be deemed to be a line parallel to the front lot line, not less than ten feet long, and lying wholly within the lot and farthest from the front lot line.
Lot, Substandard: A lot which does not meet the minimum lot size requirements for the district in which it is located.
Lot Width: The distance between the side lot lines measured at the front building line.
Manufactured Home: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis, and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities, and includes plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein. Manufactured Homes shall be constructed in accordance with the Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, as amended, 42 USC 5401, et seq.
Materials Recovery Facility: Means a solid waste handling facility that provides for the extraction from solid waste of recoverable materials, materials, suitable for use as a fuel or soil amendment, or any combination of such materials suitable for use as a fuel or soil amendment, or any combination of such materials, and as that term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22, as amended.
Mobile Home: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight feet or more in width or 40 feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein and manufactured prior to June 15, 1976.
Modular Home: A factory fabricated transportable building consisting of units designed to be incorporated at a building site on a permanent foundation into a permanent structure to be used for residential purposes and bears a seal of compliance with regulations of the Southern Building Code Congress International, the Georgia Industrialized Building Act, or the Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act, as amended.
Motel: A building or group of buildings containing guest rooms and having separate outside entrances for each guest room. To be used primarily for automobile transients and including such terms as "auto court" and "motor lodge," but not "boarding house" as defined in this section.
Municipal Solid Waste Disposal Facility: Any disposal facility where any amount of municipal solid waste (as that term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22, as amended) occurs, whether or not mixed with or including other waste allowed under Subtitle D of the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, and includes, but is not limited to, municipal solid waste landfills and solid waste thermal treatment technology facilities (as that term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22, as amended.)
Municipal Solid Waste Landfill: Any disposal facility where any amount of municipal solid waste (as that term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22, as amended) occurs, whether or not mixed with or including other waste allowed under Subtitle D of the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, is disposed of by means of placing an approved cover thereon.
Nonconforming Use: Any building or use which lawfully exists at the time of adoption of this resolution and which does not conform with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
Occupy: To use land or buildings for any length of time for a purpose for which the land or a building or part thereof is used or is intended to be used. Any variation of the term "occupy" shall be encompassed by this definition.
Park, Community: A parcel of land owned by a unit of government or a private organization and used or intended to be used for recreational or leisure time activities, and which is open to the public at no charge. Such parks may include food or recreational sales as accessory uses.
Plat: A sketch, map or survey of a lot, tract or parcel of land depicting the relative positions of lot lines, street rights-of-way and easements with the dimensions of these features inscribed thereon.
Plat, Development: A preliminary design which shows the proposed layout of a subdivision in sufficient detail to indicate its workability and conformation to the design requirements of the subdivision regulations in all aspects, but not in final form for recording and the details are not completely computed. The development plat shall be approved by the planning board prior to any development.
Plat, Final: A finished drawing of a subdivision showing completely and accurately all legal and engineering information and certification necessary for commission. Streets shown on the plat shall be approved by the Board of Commissioners prior to recordation.
Private Industry Solid Waste Disposal Facility: Any disposal facility which is operated exclusively by and for a private solid waste generator (as that term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22, as amended) for the purpose of accepting solid waste generated exclusively by said private solid waste generator on site.
Private Way: A private street, drive or road provided solely for those property owners whose property is contiguous to and have a legal right to use.
Public Right-of-Way: A street or road which has been dedicated for public use by deed, plat and/or prescription.
Recreational Use of a Commercial Nature: A building or use which provides entertainment, education, recreation or amusement for profit such as, but not limited to, a health spa, dance hall, bowling alley, skating rink, shooting range, fortune telling, amusement park, private zoo, sports stadium or arena, art gallery, concert hall, swimming pool or drive-in theater.
Residence: A building containing only residential units and which meets all the applicable requirements of the Standard Building Code for conventional construction. The term "residence" or any combination thereof shall not be deemed to include hotel, boarding house, rooming house, motel or other accommodations used for transient occupancy, and shall not, for the purpose of this regulation, include travel trailers, mobile homes or manufactured homes.
Residence, Multi-Family: A building comprised of three or more dwelling units.
Residence, Single-Family: A building other than a mobile home, manufactured home, or travel trailer designed for occupation by one family.
Residential Business: An occupation or profession conducted within a dwelling, and which is carried on by an occupant thereof and no more than three nonresidents, and which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The business may allow access by the public. The Residential Business is designed to be less restrictive than a Home Office or Home Occupation but more restrictive than a Rural Business in regard to access by the public, size visibility, number of employees and types of business.
Restaurant: An establishment, however designated, at which food is sold for consumption on the premises. However, a snack bar, concession stand or refreshment stand at a public or non-profit community swimming pool, playground, park or marina operated solely for the convenience of patrons of the facility shall not be deemed a restaurant.
Right-of-way Line: The outside boundary of a right-of-way, whether such right-of-way be established by usage, recorded easement, deed, dedication or by the official right-of-way map of Dooly County.
Rural Business: An occupation or profession conducted within a dwelling, an accessory structure or outside the dwelling and which is carried on by a resident of that property and no more than 15 nonresidents, and which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the property for residential dwelling purposes. The business may allow access by the public. The Rural Business is designed to be less restrictive than a Home Office, Home Occupation or Residential Business in regard to access by the public, size, visibility, number of employees and types of business.
Salvage Yard: The use of any space, whether inside or outside a building, for the storage, keeping, salvage or sale of junk, scrap metals or other scrap materials, including the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of one or more automobiles or other vehicles or machinery or parts thereof.
Setback: The minimum horizontal distance between the right-of-way line, or the lot line of an adjacent lot, and the front, rear or side lines of a building on the lot with setback restrictions. The term "required setback" means a line beyond which a building is not permitted to extend under the provision of this zoning ordinance establishing minimum depth and widths of yards.
Shopping Center: A group of commercial establishments planned, developed and owned or managed as a unit with on-site parking and of similar architectural characteristics.
Slow Rate Land Treatment System: A system for waste water treatment by spray irrigation (land application). The term refers to the advanced treatment of waste water by irrigation on the land to support vegetative growth. For purposes for this zoning ordinance, the use may include ponds (lagoons) for the temporary storage of the treated waste water before application to the spray fields.
Solid Waste Handling Facility: A facility, the primary purpose of which is the storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing, or disposal, or any combination thereof, of solid waste (as that term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22 as amended).
Special Flood Hazard Area: Floodprone land subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. In absence of official designation by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, such areas shall be those designated by the Dooly County Board of Commissioners.
Street: A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties.
Structure: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent or semipermanent location on the ground, or attached to something having permanent location on the ground.
Townhouse: A residential structure containing three or more attached single-family units designed as a single structure having common or party walls. Each unit shall have its own front door which opens to the outdoors, and the units shall have two floors, but without access between adjoining units.
Travel Trailer: A portable, vehicular structure not over eight feet wide by 35 feet long designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation uses, and which may or may not have kitchen equipment, toilet, lavatory and bathing facilities, but if such facilities are included, a sewage holding tank for sanitary waste is required. Any vehicle designed or converted to a design with plumbing connections for attachment to outside sewage systems shall not be included in this definition.
Travel Trailer Park: A parcel of land which has been planned and developed to accommodate two or more travel trailers, tents or other camping units for temporary occupancy. Maximum length of occupancy of any tenant shall not exceed 60 consecutive days.
Use, Permitted: Those uses specifically listed in this resolution as "uses permitted inherently" and conditional uses subject to approval by the board of commissioners.
Use, Principal: The principal purpose for which a lot or building is designed, arranged, intended, occupied or maintained.
Variance: A grant of relief or other modification of the requirements of this ordinance.
Vehicle: Any device or contrivance for carrying or conveying persons or objects, said device being designed to be self-propelled by its own motor or power.
Water System, Community: A potable water supply and treatment system other than an individual or public water system serving more than one building, residence, manufactured or mobile home or other facility designed or used for human occupancy or congregation. The system is one which is owned by a person or legal entity other than a unit of government.
Water System, Individual: A potable water system other than a community or public water system serving a single building, residence, manufactured or mobile home, or other facility designed or used for human occupancy or congregation.
Water System, Public: A potable water supply and treatment system, other than an individual or community water system, owned by a unit of government.
