ARTICLE XVI. - PARKING

Sec. 1. - Parking Requirements.
In all zones off-road parking spaces for the storage and parking of self-propelled motor vehicles for the use of occupants, employees and patrons of the buildings hereafter erected or enlarged after the effective date of this ordinance shall be provided as herein prescribed.
Required parking spaces shall be maintained and shall not be encroached upon so long as said main building or structure remains, unless an equivalent number of such spaces are provided elsewhere in conformance with this ordinance. The owner or owners of a building structure or other land use requiring off-street parking spaces must show, to the satisfaction of the Zoning Administrator, that he is the record title holder of the property devoted to said principal land use and of the property proposed for off-street parking use, or that he is the lessee of such property.
Sec. 2. - Location of Parking Space for Other Land Uses.
The off-street parking facilities required for all other uses shall be located on the lot or within 1,000 feet of the permitted use requiring such off-street parking, such distance to be measured along lines of public access to the property between the nearest point of the parking facility to the building to be served.
For any proposed land use not included in the following section in this ordinance, the parking requirements shall be the same as those which apply to the land use most similar to the proposed land use. The Zoning Administrator shall determine which of the listed land uses is most similar to the proposed land use.
Sec. 3. - Off-Road Parking Standards.
EXPAND
USE NUMBER OF
PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
1. Apartment and Multi-family dwelling Two spaces for each dwelling unit plus 1 space for each 10 units for travel trailers, boats, and other vehicles.
2. Apartments for the Elderly One space for each dwelling unit.
3. Appliance Store One space for each 400 square feet of gross floor area.
4. Auditorium, stadium, assembly hall,
gymnasium, theater, community (a) one space per three fixed seats in largest assembly or area, or (b) or one space for each 40 square feet of floor area available for the recreation center accommodation of movable seats in the largest assembly room, or combination of fixed and movable seats; or (c) one space per each 150 square feet of gross floor area; whichever is greatest.
5. Automobile Fueling Stations One space (in addition to service area) for each pump and grease rack and one space for each two employees during period of greatest employment but not less than four spaces.
6. Automobile Parts and Accessories One space for each 400 square feet of gross floor area.
7. Automobile sales and repair, service
stations and auto washeterias Same as Use 5 above plus one space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area of the shop or washerteria.
8. Automobile Service and
Appliance Centers One space for each 400 square feet of retail area plus two spaces for each service bay.
9. Bowling Alley Four spaces per alley plus requirements for any other use associated with the establishment such as a restaurant, etc.
10. Club or Lodge One space for each two employees plus one space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area within the main assembly area plus additional spaces for other uses permitted within the premises.
11. Church One space per four seats in main place of assembly.
12. Combined Uses Parking spaces shall be the total of the spaces required for each separate use established by this schedule.
13. Dance School One space for each employee plus one space per 150 square feet of gross floor area plus safe and convenient loading and unloading of students.
14. Duplex Dwelling Unit One unpaved space per each unit. Residential driveways will satisfy this need.
15. Financial Institution One space of each 250 square feet of gross floor area and two waiting spaces for each drive-thru window.
16. Funeral Home Six spaces per viewing room or one space for each 50 square feet of chapel used for services.
17. Furniture Store One space for each 400 square feet of gross floor area.
18. Golf Course Two spaces for each hole and one space for each two employees plus requirements for any other use associated with the golf course.
19. Grocery Store (including small
convenience type food store) One space for every 250 square feet of gross floor area.
20. High Schools, Trade Schools,
Colleges and Universities One space for each teacher, employee and administrative personnel plus safe and convenient loading of students plus five spaces for each classroom.
21. Hospital One space for each bed plus one space for each employee (nurse, attendant, etc.) Per shift plus one space for each staff or visiting doctor.
22. Hotel/Motel One space for each guest room suite, or unit plus one space for each two employees.
23. Indoor and outdoor recreational
areas (commercial) (a) one space for each 150 square feet of gross floor, building, ground area or combination devoted to such use; or (b) one space per each four seats or facilities available for patron use, whichever is greater.
24. Industrial or manufacturing
establishment or warehouse Two spaces for each three employees on shift of greatest employment, plus one space for each vehicle used directly in the conduct of the business.
25. Kindergarten, nursery schools
and day care One space for each employee plus safe and convenient loading of children.
26. Nightclubs One space for each 100 square feet of gross floor area plus one space for each employee.
27. Nursing Home One space for each two beds plus one space for each employee on shift of greatest employment.
28. Office, professional building
or similar use One space for each 350 square feet of the gross floor area or one space for each two employees, whichever is greater.
29. Personal service establishment One space for every 350 square feet of the gross floor area, or one space for each two employees, whichever is greater.
30. Repair Shop One space for every 300 square feet of gross floor area plus one space for each employee.
31. Restaurant or place dispensing
food, drink, or refreshments to
be consumed on the premises One space for each 100 square feet of gross floor area with a minimum of ten parking spaces.
32. Restaurant or place dispensing
food, drink or refreshments for
carry out only
(and having outdoor seating area) One space for each 100 square feet of gross floor area (with a minimum of ten spaces for this); plus one additional space for each three outdoor seats provided.
33. Restaurant or place dispensing
food, drink or refreshments for
carry out (no seating provided) One space for each 150 square feet of gross floor area; with a minimum of ten parking spaces.
34. Restaurant or place dispensing
food, drink or refreshments to
be consumed on the premises and
also having a drive-thru service One space for each 100 square feet of gross floor area; with a minimum of ten parking spaces and providing an adequate lane for thru traffic which will not obstruct the required parking and driveway for the restaurant.
35. School, elementary One space for each teacher one space for each two employees, and administrative personnel, and one for each classroom, plus safe and convenient loading and unloading of students.
36. Shopping Center (if over 35,000
square feet of gross floor area) One space for every 300 square feet of gross floor area.
37. Shopping Center (if 35,000 square
feet or less of gross floor area) One space for every 350 square feet of gross floor area.
38. Swimming Pool One space for each 200 square feet of water surface area plus requirements for additional uses in association with the establishment such as a restaurant, etc.
39. Trailer Park One space for each trailer stall plus one space for each two employees.
40. Retail stores of all types not
mentioned otherwise One space for every 300 square feet of gross floor area.
41. Wholesale Establishment One space for each employee plus sufficient spaces to accommodate vehicles used in the conduct of the business.
  Sec. 4. - Handicapped Parking Requirements.
In all zones where parking standards require the provision of six or more spaces, handicapped parking shall be provided in accordance with the following scale. Handicapped parking spaces shall be a minimum of 12 feet in width, located convenient to the building entrances, and credited to the total parking requirements.
EXPAND
TOTAL PARKING REQUIREMENTS HANDICAPPED SPACES REQUIRED
1 - 25 1
26 - 50 2
51 - 75 3
76 - 100 4
101 - 150 5
151 - 200 6
201 - 300 7
301 - 400 8
401 - 500 9
500 + 2% of total
