ARTICLE VI. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 23-601. - Accessory uses or structures.
modified
(a)
General provisions.
(1)
Accessory structures are permitted only in connection with lawful and permitted principal uses.
(2)
Accessory structures shall not be used by anyone other than the occupants, tenants, or owners of the property and/or use to which they are subordinate.
(3)
No accessory structure may be used for habitation.
(b)
Types of accessory uses and structures permitted. Permitted accessory uses and structures are limited to those that, in the determination of the Director of Planning and Community Development, satisfy all of the following criteria:
(1)
Are customarily found in conjunction with the principal use of the property; and
(2)
Are clearly subordinate to the principal use of the property; and
(3)
Serve a necessary function for or contribute to the comfort, safety, recreation, or convenience of occupants of the principal use.
(c)
Time of construction and establishment. No accessory structure may be erected prior to the principal building or structure to which it is subordinate. Accessory structures may be constructed at the same time as the principal, but shall not receive any certificates of occupancy prior to the primary structure.
(d)
Location.
(1)
Accessory structures must be located on the same lot or property as the use to which they are accessory.
(2)
Accessory structures may be placed in the side or rear yard. When located in the side yard, accessory structures shall be located behind the front plane of the house.
(3)
No accessory structure shall be located closer to the right-of-way than the principal structure.
(e)
Building setbacks. No accessory structure shall be located less than ten (10) feet from the principal structure and less than five (5) feet from any property lines. Structures less than thirty (30) inches in height are not subject to building separation requirements.
(f)
Building requirements and materials.
(1)
All accessory structures, whether constructed or prefabricated, must be appropriately anchored to the ground in a manner compliant with all building regulations and deemed appropriate by the City Building Official.
(2)
No accessory structure may ever be taller than the principal structure to which it is subordinate.
(3)
When used in conjunction with residential uses, all accessory structures greater than two hundred (200) square feet shall match the principal structure in color and/or material.
(g)
Number of accessory structures. No more than three (3) accessory structures shall be permitted on any one (1) property, unless otherwise permitted by the zoning district.
(h)
Size of accessory structures.
(1)
For single-family, two-family, and multifamily residential uses with four (4) or fewer units, the total square footage of all accessory structures shall have a gross square footage no greater than fifty (50) percent of the principal structure.
(2)
For all other multifamily uses and multifamily zoning districts, accessory structures shall comply with the following size restrictions:
EXPAND
Maximum Combined Floor Area for Accessory Structures
Total Size of Property Maximum Floor Area
0 to 0.99 acres 900 square feet
1 to 4.99 acres 1,200 square feet
5 to 9.99 acres 2,000 square feet
10 acres or more No size limit
  (i)
Exemptions.
(1)
Structures less than 30 inches in height at their tallest point.
(2)
Flagpoles, permitted signs, doghouses, playground equipment, statues, unroofed gardens, and other similar structures are not considered to be accessory structures, and do not require a permit.
(3)
Fences are not considered to be accessory structures, and shall instead comply with section 23-703 and as elsewhere regulated in the zoning ordinance.
(4)
Dumpsters are not considered to be accessory structures, and shall instead comply with all regulations in chapter 15, article VI and the zoning ordinance.
(5)
Shipping containers shall not be permitted to be used as accessory structures.
(Ord. No. 2009-27, § 1, 9-28-09; Ord. No. 2014-07, § 2, 6-2-14; Ord. No. 2022-31 , § 2, 7-18-22; Ord. No. 2022-39 , § 1, 4-18-22)
Sec. 23-602. - Minimum setback requirement—Corner lots and double frontage lots.
In any zoning district, where a lot is located on a corner the minimum front yard setback and the side yard having street frontage shall have the same minimum setback. Where a zoning district requires a greater side yard setback, the stricter provision shall govern.
Sec. 23-603. - Minimum floor area requirements.
The floor area requirements as contained in this chapter refer to heated living space. Heated living space is not to include porches, carports, decks or garages or other accessory structures.
Sec. 23-604. - City and county approvals that are required.
All City and county approvals that are required for the use of land and structures and for the location and operation of businesses and industries shall be obtained by the applicant and transmitted by him with his request for a building permit, an occupancy permit, a zoning amendment, or a variance. Except as otherwise required by state law, no local action shall be taken and no public hearings shall be held until the above required approvals have been obtained by the applicant.
Sec. 23-605. - Approvals for commercial and industrial developments on state highways.
For all business and industrial developments fronting on a state highway, no building permit shall be issued until the approval of the Georgia Department of Transportation has been obtained by the applicant on entrances and exits, curb radius, drainage and other matters that are the appropriate concern of the department. On county roads no permit shall be issued without approval of DeKalb County Department of Roads and Drainage.
Sec. 23-606. - Building under construction.
Nothing in this chapter shall require any change in the plan, construction or intended use of a building which is under construction at the effective date of adoption of this chapter so long as construction of which is diligently pursued until its completion at which time all temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work shall be removed immediately.
Sec. 23-607. - Location restrictions of places of worship.
modified
(a)
When located in commercial, mixed-use, or industrial zoning districts, places of worship shall be limited to single-occupant properties. Mixed-use or multi-tenant building use is prohibited.
(b)
Otherwise, places of worship shall adhere to the provisions of the zoning district in which they are located.
(Ord. No. 2022-33 , § 1, 7-18-22)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-11, § 1, adopted May 26, 2009, repealed § 23-607, which pertained to rental provision, and derived from Ord. No. 136, adopted September 7, 1971. Subsequently, Ord. No. 2022-33 , § 1, adopted July 18, 2022, enacted a new § 23-607.
Sec. 23-608. - Parking, storage, or use of major recreational equipment.
Definition:
(a)
For purposes of this chapter, major recreational equipment is defined as including boats and boat trailers, travel trailers, pick-up campers or coaches (designed to be mounted on automotive vehicles), motorized dwellings, tent trailers, and the like, and cases or boxes used for transporting recreational equipment, whether occupied by such equipment or not. Such major recreational equipment may be parked or stored in side yards or rear yards or in a carport or enclosed buildings provided, however, that such equipment may be parked anywhere on residential premises for a period not to exceed twenty-four (24) hours during loading or unloading. Not withstanding the foregoing, motorized dwellings or motor homes may be parked or stored in a driveway or in a paved side yard or rear yard area. Any such driveway or side yard or rear yard area shall be no less than four (4) inches in thickness and shall be composed of either concrete, asphalt, pavers or brick. Visible grass or weeds shall not be allowed to grow through any such driveway. All persons shall obtain a building permit from the City before the commencement of any construction for any driveway.
(b)
Existing driveways or side yard or rear yard areas constructed of gravel for which a permit was obtained shall be replaced with either concrete, asphalt, pavers or brick within six (6) years from the date of adoption of this chapter.
(c)
Existing driveways and side yard and rear yard areas constructed of gravel shall have the soil under such gravel treated and visible grass or weeds shall not be allowed to grow through any such driveway. In addition, gravel driveways and side yard and rear yard areas shall contain landscape timbers or similar retaining materials that will contain such gravel within its allocated location.
Sec. 23-609. - Parking and storage of certain vehicles.
Automotive vehicles or trailers of any kind or type without current license plates or in inoperable condition shall not be parked, stored, or repaired on any residentially zoned property; other than in completely enclosed buildings.
Sec. 23-610. - Motor vehicle provisions.
Aside from minor and incidental repair to the vehicles of the immediate property owner, lessee, occupant or tenant, no motor vehicle shall be repaired in any residential district. Any such repair shall be concluded within seventy-two (72) hours from beginning the repair or the vehicle shall be moved to a garage or removed from the premises. All garages shall be only for the personal use of the immediate property owner, lessee, occupant or tenant, and no motor vehicles shall be parked on grassed portions of residential lots at any time.
Sec. 23-611. - Keeping and raising of livestock.
The keeping and raising of all farm animals and fowl and use of private stables shall be prohibited in any zoning district in the City.
Sec. 23-612. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 2 of Ord. No. 2009-19, adopted Aug. 3, 2009, repealed § 23-612 which pertained to television reception devices, and derived from Ord. No. 136, adopted Sept. 7, 1971.
Sec. 23-613. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 1 of Ord. No. 2010-17, adopted July 26, 2010, repealed § 23-613 which pertained to portable signs.
Sec. 23-614. - Home occupations.
modified
Basic provision:
(1)
There shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation, including signage.
(2)
There shall be no activity or display visible from the area of the property that would indicate a business is being conducted thereon.
(3)
No use shall create noise, dust, vibration, odor, smoke, glare or electrical interference that would be detectable beyond the dwelling unit or permitted accessory structure.
(4)
No mechanical or electronic equipment not normally found in a home shall be used in the commercial enterprise.
(5)
The use shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit or permitted accessory structure, and only persons living in the dwelling unit shall be employed at the location of the home occupation.
(6)
If a home occupation is located within a home or dwelling unit, no more than twenty-five (25) percent of the dwelling unit and in no case more than five hundred (500) square feet, whichever is less, may be used for the conduct of the home occupation. If located within a permitted accessory structure, the home occupation shall conform to the size requirements for accessory structures set forth in section 23-601.
(7)
No use shall involve public contact on the property and no article, product or service shall be sold from the premises other than by telephone or over the internet. Any such article or product shall not be delivered to the purchaser at the premises.
(8)
No materials or equipment shall be stored on the premises upon which the home occupation is located, except where such materials and equipment are stored entirely within the residence or permitted accessory structure.
(9)
No vehicle other than a passenger automobile, passenger van, or passenger truck shall be used in the conduct of a home occupation, and no other vehicle shall be parked or stored on such premises.
(10)
No home occupation shall be operated so as to create or cause a nuisance.
(11)
Home occupation shall not include the use of a dwelling unit or permitted accessory structure for the purpose of operating any automobile repair establishment, automobile broker's office, automobile dealer's office, taxi service and dispatch agencies, van service, limousine service, wrecker service, car wash, or ammunition or firearms sales establishment.
(12)
Home occupation shall be limited to entities who have established residency in the City pursuant to the definition for "home occupation" outlined in section 23-402.
(Ord. No. 2008-17, § 2, 9-25-08; Ord. No. 2017-25 , § 1, 10-16-17; Ord. No. 2022-29 , § 1, 7-18-22)
Sec. 23-615. - Short-term rentals.
new
A short-term rental, as defined in this chapter and as further provided herein, is a permitted use only in residential zoning districts and on properties located in transect zones that are zoned for residential use. Where an owner-occupier, as demonstrated by a valid homestead exemption on file with DeKalb County, is renting out one (1) or two (2) bedrooms in the owner-occupied residential dwelling unit, and not the entire residential dwelling unit, the owner-occupier must be present on the premises during the period of rental and no more than two (2) separate bedrooms in the owner-occupied residential dwelling unit may be separately rented out at the same time. No property may be used as a short-term rental without the owner of same first obtaining a short-term rental permit from the City. Short-term rentals shall be subject to the hotel-motel occupancy tax imposed pursuant to chapter 6, article V of this Code in accordance with Georgia law.
(Ord. No. 2022-44 , § 2, 8-15-22)
