ARTICLE XIII. - LABOR POOLS

Sec. 6-701. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Labor pool shall be defined as a business entity which operates by:
(1)
Contracting with other entities or persons to supply them with temporary employees for short-term assignments of labor; and
(2)
Hiring persons to fulfill these contracts, but not requiring such persons to come to the temporary agency business location to receive an assignment; and
(3)
Employing each individual employee no longer than the time period required to complete the assignment for which that individual employee was hired. Although an individual may be eligible for rehire when additional temporary assignments are available.
(4)
A business entity which fulfills any contracts in accordance with this subsection is a labor pool, even if the entity also conducts other business.
(5)
Labor pool does not include a temporary help service that requires advanced applications, job interviews and references.
(6)
Short-term assignment of casual labor means a work assignment for a term of forty (40) hours or less involving work for which neither entity nor the person contracting or arranging for temporary employees requires any of the following from such employees:
a.
A professional or occupational license which requires for its issuance a demonstration or knowledge or proficiency and which is issued by the state or a political subdivision of the state;
b.
A high school diploma or equivalent;
c.
Education beyond high school;
d.
Vocational education;
e.
Demonstrated proficiency with a specified type of machinery; or
f.
Training before the assignment or on the job which exceeds one (1) hour.
This subsection shall not be construed as prohibiting or limiting the placement of a skilled employee on a short-term assignment of casual labor as long as such skill or education is not a requirement of the assignment.
Short-term assignment of labor means a work assignment for a term of forty (40) hours or less, where an individual is assigned to work for a business entity by labor pool or temporary agency.
Temporary agency means a business entity which operates by:
(1)
Contracting with other entities or persons to supply them with temporary employees for short-term assignments of labor; and
(2)
Hiring persons to fulfill these contracts, but not requiring such persons to come to the temporary agency business location to receive an assignment; and
(3)
Employing each individual employee no longer than the time period required to complete the assignment for which that individual employee was hired, although an individual may be eligible for rehire when additional temporary assignments are available.
Temporary employee means individuals who are assigned by a labor pool or a temporary agency to complete a work assignment with another entity or person.
(Ord. No. 2008-10, § 1, 7-7-08)
Sec. 6-702. - License requirement; procedure.
(a)
Any person desiring to operate a labor pool within the City shall apply for and obtain a regulatory license for the City Clerk. The annual fee for such license shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00). The license is in addition to paying the relevant occupation tax.
(b)
The application shall include a scale drawing of the premises, including interior walls, and also any drop-off areas and parking area reserved for the licensed establishment.
(Ord. No. 2008-10, § 1, 7-7-08)
Sec. 6-703. - Operating standards; conduct; exceptions.
(a)
Labor pools must have sufficient seating inside the establishment for all temporary employees who report to the business for job assignments, and each temporary employee shall remain inside the establishment while he or she is waiting for an assignment. In no event shall temporary employees congregate outside a labor pool while they are waiting for an assignment.
(b)
Labor pools must not allow any person attracted to their business establishment to congregate or loiter in any area which is owned or leased by the labor pool and which is exposed to view from any right-of-way or adjoining property.
(c)
Labor pools shall have separate restroom facilities for men and women of sufficient size to accommodate all persons awaiting employment. Such restrooms shall be handicapped accessible in accordance with state and federal standards.
(d)
Labor pools shall have sufficient dressing rooms or locker rooms for both men and women for all temporary employees to change clothes before reporting to or returning from work. The manager of each labor pool will be responsible for ensuring that such facilities are used by temporary employees in connection with all work assignments. No labor pool shall permit any temporary employee or other individual associated with the establishment to change clothing in any area other than provided herein.
(e)
Each labor pool must maintain general liability insurance and premises liability insurance in the minimum amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per occurrence.
(f)
Labor pools shall limit their hours of operation to a time period from 5:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
(g)
Labor pools shall not allow littering by any person upon its premises. Each labor pool shall maintain a daily detail of workers to ensure compliance with this subpart.
(h)
Labor pools shall not allow the consumption of alcohol or other intoxicants by any person upon their premises.
(i)
There shall be more than one (1) labor pool per two thousand five hundred seventy-six (2,576) persons found in the City as determined by the use of the U.S. Census Bureau population estimate.
(Ord. No. 2008-10, § 1, 7-7-08)
Secs. 6-704—6-800. - Reserved.
