ARTICLE II. - PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Sections 1 and 2 of Ord. No. 2011-27, adopted June 20, 2011, amended the Code by the addition of §§ 5-26 and 5-27. Former §§ 5-26—5-49 were redesignated as a new Art. III, §§ 5-56—5-79.

Sec. 5-26. - Adoption of 2006 International Property Maintenance Code, as amended.
That a certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the City of Doraville, one (1) at the office of the City Clerk, and two (2) at the office of the Planning Department, being marked and designated as the International Property Maintenance Code, 2006 edition, as published by the International Code Council, and as amended by the State of Georgia in its January 1, 2009, Georgia State Amendments to the International Property Maintenance Code be hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the City of Doraville for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Property Maintenance Code on file in the offices stated above are hereby referred to, adopted and made part of as if fully set out in this article with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes prescribed in section 5-27 of this article.
(Ord. No. 2011-27, § 1, 6-20-11)
Sec. 5-27. - Revisions.
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert "City of Doraville."
Section 103.1. Change "Department of Property Maintenance Inspection" to "Department of Quality of Life, with the exception of Section 108 of this Code, which shall be enforced with the direction and supervision of the Building Inspector."
Section 103.2. Delete Section 103.2.
Section 103.5. Delete section and insert "Fees shall be as determined by the City and appropriately posted."
Section 106.2. Add sentence: "A citation without prior notice of violation may be served upon owner of property where a notice of any violation had previously been served within a 24-month period prior to the new violation."
Section 106.4. Add sentence: "Penalties assessed for each violation shall be either a fine of up to $1,000 or a term of incarceration of up to 6 months, or both."
Section 111.1. Delete "Board of Appeals" and insert "Mayor and Council."
Section 111.2 to 111.8. Delete all sections inclusive.
Section 302.4. Insert "10 inches".
Section 602.3. Insert "October 1 st and April 1 st ."
(Ord. No. 2011-27, § 1, 6-20-11; Ord. No. 2012-19, § 1, 10-15-12)
Sec. 5-28. - Outdoor furniture restriction.
(a)
No person shall place, use, keep, store or maintain any upholstered furniture not manufactured for outdoor use, including, without limitation, upholstered chairs, upholstered couches and mattresses, and car seats in any outside areas located in the following places:
(1)
In any front yard;
(2)
In any side yard;
(3)
In any rear yard or other yard that is adjacent to a public street. However, an alley shall not be considered a "public street" for the purpose of this subsection; or
(4)
On any covered or uncovered porch located in or adjacent to any of the yards described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section.
(b)
For the purpose of this section, yards are defined as follows:
(1)
The terms "front yard," "rear yard" and "side yard" refer to the open space between buildings and property lines at the front, rear and sides of a property, respectively.
(2)
A side yard extends the full length of a lot as if a line running along the edge of a building was extended to intersect with the rear property line.
(3)
On a corner lot, the open space adjacent to the shorter street right-of-way shall be considered the front yard.
(4)
The rear yard is that yard located on the opposite side of the lot from the front yard.
(c)
The interior of any fully enclosed porch (including, without limitation, a porch enclosed by screening material) that cannot be accessed from outside except through a door that can be locked shall not be considered an outside area for the purpose of this section.
(d)
Placement of upholstered furniture on balconies or porches located on the second floor, or any floor above the second floor, of a building is not precluded by the provisions of this section.
(e)
The following shall constitute specific defenses to any alleged violation of this provision:
(1)
That such furniture was placed in an outside location in order to allow it to be moved during a move of a resident or residents or removed as part of a trash or recycling program on a day scheduled for such moving or removal.
(2)
That such furniture was located on a yard other than a front yard and was placed in such a manner that it could not be seen from ground level by a person located on a public right-of-way (excluding public alleys) and that it was not visible by such a person unless that person took extraordinary steps such as climbing a ladder or peering over a screening fence in order to achieve a point of vantage.
(3)
That such furniture was temporarily placed in an outside location in order that it be offered for sale at a yard or garage sale if each of the following conditions exist:
a.
The furniture is located in an outside location only during the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
b.
The person attempting to sell the furniture, or that person's agent, is outside during the period of the yard or garage sale in order to monitor the sale.
c.
A sign is placed on or near the furniture indicating that it is for sale.
d.
This defense shall not apply if upholstered furniture is located in an outside location for more than two (2) days in any six-month period.
(Ord. No. 2014-11, § 1, 10-6-14)
Sec. 5-29. - Open outdoor storage.
modified
(a)
For the purposes of this section, the following terms shall be defined as follows:
Appliance shall mean a machine that is powered by electricity and that is used in people's houses to perform a particular job (such as a stove, microwave or dishwasher, as an example).
Equipment shall mean supplies or tools needed for a special purpose, with the exception of lawn maintenance equipment used for that property and stored in the carport.
Merchandise shall mean manufactured goods, materials or commodities manufactured off premises or to be used for an off-premises commercial use.
(b)
The open or outdoor storage of appliances, building materials or rubbish, equipment, garbage, glass, merchandise, rubbish, trash or similar items shall not be permitted, maintained or stored on any premises for more than twenty-four (24) hours. Exceptions:
(1)
Property where outdoor storage is authorized by the City Zoning or other ordinance;
(2)
Cut wood that is neatly stacked for the personal use of the owner or occupant, not stored in the front yard and not to exceed three (3) cords of wood stacked in four (4) feet by four (4) feet by eight (8) feet stacks; and
(3)
As may otherwise be allowed by the Doraville City Code.
(c)
Outdoor storage shall not include any item otherwise stored in a fully enclosed garage or a properly permitted and placed and fully enclosed storage shed, or any item which is otherwise not visible from the right-of-way or not clearly visible from a directly adjoining property.
(d)
Except in industrial districts, shipping containers shall under no circumstances be permitted as outdoor storage, subject to the performance standards of section 23-911.
(Ord. No. 2014-12, § 1, 11-17-14; Ord. No. 2022-31 , § 1, 7-18-22)
Secs. 5-30—5-55. - Reserved.
