Chapter 12 - CEMETERIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Criminal trespass and damage to property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-20 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 12-1—12-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MUNICIPAL CEMETERIES

Sec. 12-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bronze marker means a memorial bronze or other cast metal projecting above ground level no more than one-half inch.
City cemetery means that tract of land located within the city currently utilized for the burial of the dead and designated as the city municipal cemetery.
Columbarium means a mini mausoleum with niches designed to hold cremains.
Corner marker means a marker buried flush with the ground at the inside corners of plots or lots, the maximum dimension of which is six inches by six inches.
Cremains means the ashes of a cremated human body.
Cremation means the reduction of the body of a deceased human to its essential elements by incineration.
Funeral home means an establishment in which the dead are prepared for burial or cremation and in which wakes and funerals may be held.
Ground cover means the number, in inches, of soil material to be deposited over the burial vault and/or casket at ground level.
Lot means that tract of land capable of accommodating the burial of two individual outer burial containers.
Maintenance fee means that fee charged the owners of cemetery plots, lots or mausoleums for maintenance and upkeep of such plots, lots or mausoleums throughout the year.
Mausoleum means an aboveground structure erected for the purpose of the interment of deceased bodies.
Monument means a memorial structure consisting of granite, stone, marble or other designated manmade material marking the plot or lot in which a burial has or will take place.
Notification of burial means that notice requested to be given the city representative by the mortician or other responsible party of date and time of burial.
Outer burial containers means any concrete or steel container designed for the placement in the grave around the casket, including, but not limited to, such containers commonly known as burial vaults, grave boxes and grave liners.
Permanent marker means a marker made of a permanent material such as concrete, marble, masonry, iron, steel, or metal and identifying the name of the individual with date buried and the name of the funeral home carved, etched, sandblasted or stamped into the marker.
Permit means that document allowing burial in the city's cemetery. The permit shall be obtained prior to burial from a designated city department.
Plantings means any growth of herbaceous, annual and perennial flowers permitted to be planted on a plot or lot within the cemetery as designated by the city's representatives.
Plot means that tract of land located within the cemetery containing one or more cemetery lots.
Section means that area of the cemetery containing a number of plots and/or lots.
(Code 1978, § 8-22; Code 1993, pt. II, § 26-1; Ord. No. 05122003.01, 5-12-2003)
Sec. 12-20. - Intent; scope.
It is hereby the intent of the mayor and board of commissioners, in order to promote the orderly development and maintenance of the municipal cemetery of the city, that the following rules, regulations and requirements shall be adopted and shall govern all interments within the cemetery.
(Code 1978, § 8-21; Code 1993, pt. II, § 26-2)
Sec. 12-21. - Description of cemetery boundaries; dedication of land for cemetery use; markers authorized; city manager's authority.
(a)
A legal description containing the location, dimensions, courses, distances, metes, bounds and deed references for the city cemetery shall be as shown on a map or plat retained permanently in the official map area at the city hall to be designated as the "Official Description and Plat of the City of Douglas Cemetery."
(b)
Such land is hereby dedicated to cemetery use, and it shall be used for cemetery purposes only.
(c)
There shall be placed on such cemetery property only graves with bronze grave markers, and such bronze grave markers shall not project or protrude above ground level.
(d)
The city manager is hereby authorized and directed to do any and all acts and things necessary to manage and control the use of the above-described land for the purposes herein stated.
(Code 1978, § 8-1; Code 1993, pt. II, § 26-3)
Sec. 12-22. - Plots, lots.
(a)
Purchase of lot. Any person desiring to purchase a plot or lot within the city cemetery may do so by depositing with the city the full cost of the plot or lot selected. At the time of purchase, the purchaser shall be issued a receipt upon which is noted the plot and/or lot number, as well as the cemetery section designation, the purchase price and name and address of purchaser and any other necessary information required by the city.
(b)
Purchase price. The purchase price of any lot within the city's cemetery shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. The purchaser shall waive any or all air rights over the lot purchased.
(c)
Lot size. All lots sold within the city's cemetery shall measure a minimum of ten feet by ten feet.
(d)
Plot size. A plot shall consist of any number of lots having a common boundary line on at least one side or end.
(Code 1978, § 8-23; Code 1993, pt. II, § 26-4)
Sec. 12-23. - Grave site openings—Permit.
(a)
Permit required. There shall be required by any party responsible for opening any grave site located on any lot within the cemetery a permit issued by a representative of the city. The permit shall be obtained a minimum of 24 hours in advance of the site opening. The notice may be waived by the city in extenuating circumstances.
(b)
Permit fee. The fee charged by the city for the issuance of a permit to open a grave site shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. There shall be no fees in the northeast corner (old section) of the cemetery, for grave openings, markers or monuments; however, nothing contained herein waives any requirement for a person burying someone in the northeast corner (old section) of the cemetery from applying for and receiving a permit at no charge for the grave opening and/or marker.
(c)
City responsibility. It shall be the responsibility of the city's representative upon receipt of the permit fee to locate the grave site and to mark same in such manner as to be clearly identifiable to the party responsible for opening the grave site. In no event shall any party attempt to open a grave site prior to identification of the site by the city. The city, when feasible, must be given 24 hours' notice for marking a grave site.
(d)
Opening of grave. The opening of a grave in the city cemetery without a permit shall be an offense punishable as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1978, § 8-24; Code 1993, pt. II, § 26-5; Ord. No. 06-09.01-97, 6-9-1997)
Sec. 12-24. - Grave site openings—Specifications.
(a)
Dimensions. All grave sites shall have an opening sufficient in size to accommodate the casket and outer burial container.
(b)
Ground cover. All graves shall be dug to a depth sufficient to allow a minimum ground cover of 18 inches.
(c)
Material disposal. All excess soil removed from a grave site shall be deposited at a site designated by the city representative.
(d)
Soil removal methods. In no event shall the removal of excess material result in the damage to surrounding plots and/or lots, cause ruts to develop, cause damage to surrounding trees, shrubbery, flowers, monuments, etc. In the event of such damage, the person responsible shall pay to the city its cost of repair of such damage.
(e)
Soil compaction. All grave sites opened shall have the soil returned to the site fully compacted to prevent the settling of such soil after completion of the burial. The costs of any settling at the grave site that takes place within one year of the burial which requires city personnel to correct shall be charged to the party responsible for the original grave site opening.
(f)
Outer burial container required. For all burials in the city cemetery, the city will require, in addition to a casket, an outer burial container approved by city officials that is made of such material and of such thickness as to render the grave site impervious to eventual cave-ins (materials such as concrete, 1½ inches thick, coated metals of 12 gauge or thicker, or manmade materials impervious to decay). Wooden boxes do not comply with this requirement.
(g)
Temporary marker. The funeral home shall at the time of burial affix to the ground, displayed in a position as to be read, a temporary marker identifying the name of the individual, the date buried, and the funeral home's name carved, etched, sandblasted or stamped into the marker. The marker must be temporary affixed in such a way that the marker would not hinder maintenance of the plot.
(Code 1978, § 8-25; Code 1993, pt. II, § 26-6; Ord. No. 05122003.01, 5-12-2003)
Sec. 12-25. - Plot and/or lot corner markings.
(a)
Permit required. If the owner and/or heirs wish to designate the location of any plot or lot within the city cemetery with the installation of corner markers, a permit to do so shall be obtained from the designated city department. All corner markers shall be a maximum of six inches by six inches in size and shall be set flush with surrounding ground level on the inside corner of the plot or lot so marked. There shall be no fees in the northeast corner (old section) of the cemetery, for grave openings, markers or monuments; however, nothing contained herein waives any requirement for a person burying someone in the northeast corner (old section) of the cemetery from applying for and receiving a permit at no charge for the grave opening and/or marker.
(b)
Permit fee. A fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges shall be charged the applicant for a corner marking installation to assist in defraying the cost to the city for location of corner marking sites on behalf of the applicant.
(c)
Debris removal. It shall be the responsibility of the party installing corner markers to remove from the cemetery all excess debris, soil, etc., resulting from installation of the corner markers. If such debris, soil, etc., is not removed within five working days from the installation of same, the city shall remove such material at the expense of the responsible party.
(Code 1978, § 8-26; Code 1993, pt. II, § 26-7; Ord. No. 06-09.01-97, 6-9-1997)
Sec. 12-26. - Monuments.
(a)
Installation permit required, fee. There is hereby required a permit for the installation of any monument and/or bronze marker within the city cemetery. The party responsible for installation of such monument and/or marker, prior to such installation, shall make application for a permit to install same to the designated city department and pay the designated department a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. Such fee is established for the purpose of helping in defraying cost to the city in locating on behalf of the applicant the plot/lot on which such monument/marker shall be installed.
(b)
Monument base. The base on which all monuments and/or markers are to be located shall consist of poured concrete to a depth and size sufficient to support the monument/marker without cracking. All such bases shall not protrude above surrounding ground level in excess of one inch.
(c)
Material disposal. The removal of all excess material resulting from the installation of a monument and/or marker base shall be the responsibility of the person making such installation. If all such removal is not completed within five working days from the date of installation, the city may remove same and charge all costs therefor to the party obtaining the installation permit.
(d)
Damage to property. The party responsible for the installation of the monument/marker base or the monument/marker shall be responsible for the cost of report of any damage to property incurred within the cemetery as a result of such installation.
(e)
Bronze markers. The city may, in its discretion, designate specific locations within the cemetery wherein only bronze plaques or other similar type markers will be permitted. When so done, the owners of plots/lots within the designated area shall not be permitted to erect monuments/markers, etc., other than those so designated.
(Code 1978, § 8-27; Code 1993, pt. II, § 26-8)
Sec. 12-27. - Number of burials per lot.
There shall be no more than two burials per lot within the city cemetery, except in the case of cremated remains or infant burials wherein four burials per grave site will be permitted. Each such burial shall be considered a separate burial unless accomplished at the same time. Five cremains burial per five foot by ten foot lot and ten cremains burial per ten foot by ten foot lot.
(Code 1978, § 8-28; Code 1993, pt. II, § 26-9)
Sec. 12-28. - Plantings.
(a)
The owners of plots or lots within the city cemetery shall be restricted to planting only herbaceous, annual and perennial flowers on such plots or lots.
(b)
No trees or woody plants shall be planted on any lot in the city cemetery.
(c)
The director of parks and recreation, with approval by the city manager, shall have the right and power to have removed from any owner's lot any tree, shrub or plant deemed unsafe and likely to injure any of the improvements in the cemetery.
(Code 1978, § 8-29; Code 1993, pt. II, § 26-10)
Sec. 12-29. - Hours open.
The hours during which the city cemetery shall be open to the public are hereby established as 6:30 a.m. to 30 minutes after sunset. Any person apprehended within the confines of the cemetery at any time other than the hours herein designated without approval of the city shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Code 1978, § 8-31; Code 1993, pt. II, § 26-12)
Sec. 12-30. - Burial of animals prohibited.
The burial of animals of any nature shall not be permitted within the city cemetery.
(Code 1978, § 8-32; Code 1993, pt. II, § 26-13)
Sec. 12-31. - Penalty.
Violation of the provisions of this article shall be punishable as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1978, § 8-33; Code 1993, pt. II, § 26-14)
