ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Building department—Official, inspector, employees, fees, records, general administrative provisions, etc.
(a)
The provisions of administration of the Standard Building Code, latest edition, are hereby adopted in all respects and incorporated herein by reference thereto.
(b)
The term "governing body" or "applicable governing body" as used in the Standard Building Code or in any other uniform or standard codes adopted in this chapter shall refer in each instance to the county board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 9-17-91)
Sec. 6-2. - Same—Enforcement powers.
The enforcement provisions of all codes related in this chapter are hereby adopted in all respects and incorporated herein by reference thereto.
(Ord. of 9-17-91)
Sec. 6-3. - Building code—Adopted.
(a)
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing standards and procedures affecting the design, erection and construction of buildings and structures the Georgia State Minimum Standard Building Code, latest addition, as adopted by the State of Georgia. In addition appendices A, B, C, D, E, G and H thereto are adopted. The Southern Standard Building Code is published by the Southern Building Code Congress International, Inc., 900 Montclair Road, Birmingham, Alabama 35213-1206, and each of said codes are adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. At least one (1) copy of the building codes are on file in the office of the building official.
(b)
There are likewise adopted in various provisions of this chapter other uniform or standard codes as noted in various articles hereof. At least one (1) copy of such uniform or standard codes are on file in the office of the building official.
(Ord. of 8-15-89; Ord. of 9-17-91; Ord. of 8-19-97)
Sec. 6-4. - Reserved.
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Sept. 17, 1991, amended the Code by deleting provisions contained in § 6-4. Said provisions pertained to amendments to the Standard Building Code and derived from an ordinance adopted Jan. 17, 1989; and a resolution adopted July 17, 1990.
Sec. 6-5. - Same—Modifications.
The building official shall have power to modify any of the provisions of the various uniform or standard codes adopted in this chapter upon application in writing by the owner, developer or lessee, or the duly authorized agent of the owner, developer or lessee, when, in the opinion of the building official, there are practical difficulties in carrying out the strict letter of the codes, provided that the spirit of the codes shall be observed and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modifications, when granted or allowed, and the decision of the building official shall be entered upon the records of the department and a signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
Sec. 6-6. - Same—Appeals.
Whenever the building official shall disapprove an application seeking to modify any of the provisions of the uniform or standard codes adopted in this chapter, the applicant for such modification may appeal from the decision of the building official by filing a notice of appeal in writing to the board of adjustments and appeals, as provided in Article 1, section 105 of the Standard Building Code, which is expressly empowered to hear such appeal.
Sec. 6-7. - Pretreatment certification required before occupancy.
Prior to occupancy, all residential dwellings shall be pretreated for subterranean termite infestation, and a certification of such treatment shall be provided to the building official.
(Ord. of 9-17-91)
Sec. 6-8. - Board of adjustments and appeals established; composition; quorum, records, rules, procedure.
The provisions of the Standard Building Code dealing with the creation, operation and powers of the board of adjustments and appeals are hereby adopted in all respects and incorporated herein by reference thereto.
Sec. 6-9. - Building permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to commence construction of any building or to commence the moving or alteration of any building until a permit has been obtained from and the required fee paid to the permit office.
Sec. 6-10. - Permit fees as filed.
Building permit fees shall be as provided in a schedule adopted by the board of commissioners and on file in the office of the building.
Sec. 6-11. - Compliance prerequisite to issuance of permit.
No permit shall be issued under any provision of this chapter until the applicant has fully complied with all applicable provisions of this Code, all zoning and subdivision regulations, and all site development standards of this Code.
Sec. 6-12. - Construction industry board license required for issuance of certain permits; work by individual on personal dwelling.
(a)
Electrical, plumbing, gas, conditioned air and low-voltage permits shall be issued only to a holder of a valid, current state construction industry licensing board master license for the trade for which the application is made, except that a homeowner may apply for and obtain all required permits for making improvements solely to such homeowner's own dwelling, provided all provisions of state law are met. The term "dwelling" for purposes of this section shall mean the permittee's primary, single-family residence.
(b)
In the event that the permit holder is unable to finish the job for which the permit was issued or is fired from or refuses to complete a job, then the owner or general contractor shall notify the permit holder in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, that the employment of the permit holder is terminated and that application is being made to transfer the permit to another qualified license holder.
(c)
In addition to those license holders noted in subsection (a), the provisions of subsection (b) shall apply to general contractors, with the exception that a master license is not required of a contractor to obtain a building permit.
Sec. 6-13. - Framing and construction advisory board.
(a)
Appointment. There is hereby established the framing and construction advisory board, which shall consist of three (3) members. Such board shall be composed of three (3) general contractors or residential buildings with at least five (5) years' building experience. Said board shall be appointed by the county board of commissioners and shall take office immediately upon appointment. The board shall elect a chairman.
(b)
Term of office. One (1) member shall be appointed for a term of one (1) year, one (1) for a term of two (2) years and one (1) for a term of three (3) years, and thereafter, they shall be appointed for terms of four (4) years. Vacancies shall be filled for an unexpired term in the manner in which original appointments are required to be made. Absence at three (3) consecutive meetings by any member of the board shall, at the discretion of the chairman, subject such member to immediate removal from office.
(c)
Duties. The powers of said board are expressly limited to advisory powers with respect to building construction and framing, except where additional powers are expressly set out in this Code. Two (2) members of said board shall constitute a quorum thereof for the transaction of business properly coming before them.
(d)
Procedure. The board shall establish rules and regulations or its own procedure not inconsistent with the provisions of this Code. The board shall meet at regular intervals, to be determined by the chairman.
(e)
Records. The building official or the official's designate shall act as secretary of the board and shall set forth the reasons for its decisions, the vote of each member participating therein, the absence of a member and any failure of a member to vote.
Sec. 6-14. - Revocation of permits.
The revocation provisions of the Standard Building Code authorizing the building official to revoke permits are hereby adopted in all respects and incorporated herein by reference thereto.
Sec. 6-15. - Code compliance bond.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b) of this section, it shall be the duty of every builder, general contractor, electrical contractor, plumbing contractor, HVAC contractor or other person or entity that contracts for the erection, construction or repair of buildings for which a building permit is required to give good and sufficient bond in the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) to be approved by the building official, conditioned to conform to the building regulations provided in this chapter and other ordinances or laws of the county and the state in reference to buildings.
(b)
Any licensed plumbing contractor or licensed HVAC contractor may, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 43-14-12(b), execute and deposit a code compliance bond in the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) with the probate judge in the county of such contractor's principal place of business. Such bond shall be a cash bond in the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or be executed by a surety authorized and qualified to write surety bonds in the state. Such bond shall comply with and conform to the requirements specified by O.C.G.A. § 43-14-12(b) as to form and must be approved by the probate judge. Prior to the issuance of any building permits by the building official or his designee, any licensed plumbing contractor or licensed HVAC contractor who chooses to execute and deposit a code compliance bond pursuant to this subsection must furnish a copy of the approved code compliance bond to the building official or his designee.
Any licensed plumbing contractor or HVAC contractor who has not executed and deposited with the judge of the probate court in the county of his principal place of business a code compliance bond as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 43-14-12(b) shall instead be subject to the code compliance bond requirements outlined in subsection (a) of this section.
(c)
Any final inspection report and certificate of occupancy issued for any structure shall have noted thereon: "To the best of the county's knowledge and belief at the time of inspection, the structure has been erected in substantial compliance with applicable building codes. No oversight by the office of the building official shall excuse violation of any ordinance of Douglas County."
(d)
After issuance of any final inspection report, the county reserves the right for a period of one (1) year to reinspect a dwelling for latent code violations that existed at the time of final inspection but were not detected. Inspections made after the issuance of the final inspection report and before the termination of the one-year requirement by the office of the building official shall be in response to a written complaint by the owner.
(e)
The builder, electric contractor, plumbing contractor, HVAC contractor, owner, individual or other entity securing the permit shall be responsible for the correction of any code violations by him or her that are discovered and reported in writing to the building official during the period of construction or within the one-year period beginning at the date of final inspection, excepting routine maintenance, abuse, modification and normal wear and tear.
(f)
Should the office of the building official determine that there exists in any structure covered by a bond issued pursuant to subsections (a) or (b) of this section, any violations of this Code, the principal on any such bond, being the builder, electrical contractor, plumbing contractor, HVAC contractor, owner, individual or other entity obtaining a permit for construction, shall be notified by certified mail of the violation and shall be allowed ten (10) working days from the receipt of the notification to respond to the charge of violation and to meet with the office of the building official regarding a remedy for the violation.
(g)
Should the principal on the bond decide within the ten-day period provided in this section to appeal the charge of violation, he will be given an additional ten (10) working days to file such appeal to the board of appeals. The board of appeals shall have the authority and duty to render decisions in any appeal brought by a builder, electrical contractor, plumbing contractor, HVAC contractor, owner, or individual who holds a construction permit and who has issued to the county a code compliance bond or, where applicable, a copy of a code compliance bond, and who has been determined by the building official to have failed to correct building code violations. Should the board of appeals find the principal in violation of the code, the principal shall have thirty (30) days to remedy the violation to the satisfaction of the office of the building official. All decisions of the board of appeals are final and may only be reviewed by certiorari to the superior court of the county.
(h)
Should the principal not correct the violation in a manner satisfactory to the office of the building official, or, in the judgment of the building official, have not made satisfactory progress in remedying the violation within this thirty-day period, then he shall be notified in writing of his default and the surety shall be called upon to remedy the default within forty-five (45) days of notification.
(i)
The surety's obligation shall be limited to an amount required to remedy the code violation, but in no event shall the obligation exceed the amount of the bond.
(Ord. of 1-20-04)
Secs. 6-16—6-19. - Reserved.
