DIVISION 6. - EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE RATING

Sec. 13-75. - Objective.
The board of commissioners shall cause to be prepared a system for evaluating the work performance of all employees in the classified service. The purpose of the employee performance rating shall be primarily to inform employees how well they are performing their work and how they can improve their work performance.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-76. - Period of evaluation.
All employees shall be evaluated during and at the completion of the entrance probationary period and at least annually from the date of completing their probation period. Performance ratings may be delayed if the employee is performing in a marginal or unsatisfactory manner and the supervisor wishes to establish an additional period of time for the employee to improve their performance. Requests for extension of the performance rating period must be placed in writing and forwarded to the human resources director giving the reasons for the requested extension, time period of the requested delay, and what the employee needs to improve or correct in order to receive a satisfactory performance evaluation.
(Ord. of 4-18-97; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-77. - Performance rating.
Performance ratings shall be prepared by the immediate supervisor of each employee, reviewed by intermediate supervisors and the appropriate department head and delivered to the human resources director for placement in that employee's personnel file. An employee in a supervisory position who is leaving the position may be required to submit performance ratings on all the employees under such employee's supervision who have not been evaluated within the previous six-month period. The department head shall furnish the employee an official copy of the employee performance rating form.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-78. - Review with employee.
The evaluator shall discuss each performance rating, including comments from the department head, with the employee being evaluated. If an employee disagrees with any statement in an evaluation, such employee may submit to the department head within ten (10) days following the conference with the supervisor a written statement setting forth such employee's objections. Such objections shall be forwarded by the department head to the human resources director for placement in that employee's personnel file.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-79. - Ratings confidential.
Performance ratings shall be confidential and shall be made available only in accordance with the Georgia Open Records Act and to the employee's supervisor.
(Amd. of 5-18-04; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Secs. 13-80—13-84. - Reserved.
