Chapter 40 - VEGETATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 40-1. - Trimming of trees interfering with utility lines.
The city shall have the right, power and authority to cut the limbs from the trees which cause or may cause damage to overhead utility lines. The city shall use proper pruning techniques.
(Code 1978, § 21-18; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-1)
Sec. 40-2. - Trees and shrubbery; planting.
All persons planting trees or shrubbery of any nature or kind upon the sidewalks of the city or on property owned by the city shall plant such trees and shrubbery according to such rules and regulations as might be established by the city manager, the director of the community services department, grounds maintenance division and the board of commissioners. All trees shall be planted in a line with other trees on the same sidewalk. In case of any failure to comply with this section, the city manager may have all trees and shrubbery that are planted in violation of the same removed at the expense of the person so offending.
(Code 1978, § 21-16; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-2)
Sec. 40-3. - Area between property line and street.
It shall be unlawful for any property owner or lessee within the city to allow any weeds or rank vegetation of any character to grow within the area between the property line and the outer edge of the street curb. It shall be the duty of such owner or lessee to keep grass plots between the property line and the outer curb properly cut or mown.
(Code 1978, § 12-3; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-3)
Sec. 40-4. - Vacant property—Overgrowth prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for owners of vacant property within the city to allow same to become encumbered by growth of weeds or other vegetation not contemplated in the city's tree ordinance or in the cultivation of a garden or truck farm.
(Code 1978, § 12-4; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-4)
Sec. 40-5. - Vacant property—Periodic clearing by owner.
All property covered by growth of weeds or undergrowth prohibited above shall be cleared of the same by the owner thereof not later than July 15 each year.
(Code 1978, § 12-5; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-5)
Sec. 40-6. - Vacant property—Removal of vegetation obstructing utility meters.
Where an electric, gas or water meter is located on private property, the city shall at all times have the right and authority to go upon such premises for the purpose of trimming and pruning vegetation which obstructs the reading of such meter.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-6)
Sec. 40-7. - Vacant property—Failure to remove.
(a)
A failure or refusal on the part of the owner to cut the weeds or growth and remove the same from the property as above provided shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(b)
In addition to the penalties, the city may enter upon the premises and abate the nuisance as provided in this chapter.
(Code 1978, § 12-6; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-7)
Secs. 40-8—40-32. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TREES

Sec. 40-33. - Short title.
This article shall be known as the "Tree Ordinance of the City of Douglas."
(Code 1978, § 21½-1; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-31)
Sec. 40-34. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Approved trees means those trees approved for planting within street rights-of-way, consisting of the following:
(1)
Cedar.
(2)
Dogwood.
(3)
Ginko.
(4)
Holly.
(5)
Live oak.
(6)
Magnolia.
(7)
Palm.
(8)
Redbud.
(9)
Cherry laurel.
(10)
Crepe myrtle.
(11)
Red maple.
(12)
Other species of trees approved by the grounds maintenance division director of the city.
Building department means the building department of the city under the direction of the building official, building inspector or code enforcement official.
Diameter breast height (DBH) means diameter of a tree 4½ feet above the ground level.
Plantings means any flower, bush, vegetable, grass, etc., other than a tree or shrubbery.
Shrubbery means any perennial woody growth with branches at or near the ground.
Tree means any self-supporting woody plant usually with one or more main stem or trunk normally growing to a minimum overall height in excess of 15 feet.
(Code 1978, § 21½-3; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-32)
Sec. 40-35. - Intent.
By the adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived, it shall be the intent of the city commission to ensure the preservation and maintenance of trees within the city; to establish protective regulations for the planting and maintenance of trees, shrubbery, plantings, etc., within the public rights-of-way and within publicly-owned land; to establish minimum regulations governing the removal and/or destruction of certain trees within privately-developed land areas within the city; to encourage the planting and growth of enumerated tree species within the city; to prescribe the location and species of tree planting on public property; and to protect the public utilizing public rights-of-way and property by regulating the installation and/or maintenance of any structure, fencing, trees, shrubbery, plantings or growth of any nature interfering with the safety and welfare of persons utilizing the public rights-of-way within the city.
(Code 1978, § 21½-2; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-33)
Sec. 40-36. - Properties affected.
The terms and conditions of this article shall apply to all real property within the city with the exception of that property occupied as a single-family residence and including all public lands and rights-of-way.
(Code 1978, § 21½-4; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-34)
Sec. 40-37. - Permit—Required for removal of trees.
It shall be unlawful for any person, without first obtaining a permit from the building official of the city to do so as herein provided, to remove, or effectively remove through damaging, any tree with a trunk DBH of four inches within the city. Any trimming of trees in the public rights-of-way shall be under the direction and supervision of the city.
(Code 1978, § 21½-5; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-35)
Sec. 40-38. - Permit—Plot plan required.
(a)
The request for a tree removal permit shall be accompanied by a plot plan showing:
(1)
Location of all trees and general identification of species.
(2)
Location of existing and/or proposed structures.
(3)
Identification of trees to be removed and those to be retained.
(4)
Location of all means of ingress and egress to the property affected.
(b)
The above items shall be field checked by the building official and his approval or disapproval with any conditions attached shall be noted on the permit application.
(Code 1978, § 21½-6; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-36)
Sec. 40-39. - Permit—Application review.
The building official, utilizing the technical assistance of the beautification department or such other technical assistance as it may require, shall review the application and plot plan and shall consider and determine what impact the request will have upon drainage, topography and natural resources of the area in the granting or denial of the application.
(Code 1978, § 21½-7; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-37)
Sec. 40-40. - Hazardous conditions.
(a)
Danger to life or property. If the building official shall determine that any tree presents a condition so as to endanger the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of the city or it is infected with any form of disease that could be transmitted to other trees within the city, and requires immediate removal, verbal authorization may be given by the building official or in his absence the head of the street department or the city manager for removal of the tree.
(b)
Removal of diseased trees. At any time the building official shall determine that any tree located within the city shall have become diseased and the disease may not be effectively treated and the existence of the diseased tree may present a danger of transmittal of the disease to other trees in the area, the building official shall require such tree to be immediately removed and destroyed at the expense of the property owner. If the removal is not accomplished within 30 days of the date of notification, the city may have the tree removed at the expense of the property owner on which the trees are located.
(c)
Emergency conditions. During those periods wherein an act of nature has created conditions requiring removal of trees, the requirements of this article may be waived by the city manager.
(d)
Exception for tree nurseries or farms. All licensed tree nurseries or tree farms shall be exempt from the conditions of this article in relation to those trees offered for sale only.
(Code 1978, § 21½-8; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-38)
Sec. 40-41. - Protection of trees during development.
(a)
General provisions. It shall be unlawful for any person in the construction of any structure or other improvement to place materials, machinery or soil deposits within the dripline of any tree having a four-inch or greater DBH for all species of trees except the pine species with a DBH of eight inches or more. The builder shall be required to erect protective barriers approved by the building official around such trees to be preserved. No attachments, wires, ropes, etc., shall be made to such trees, nor shall soil be removed from within 25 feet of any remaining trees on any tract or parcel under development.
(b)
Commercial-industrial development. In the development of commercial and/or industrially zoned property, all applications for building permits shall be accompanied by a plot plan as outlined in section 40-38. In the establishment of parking areas required to serve commercial and industrial property, there shall be presented by the developer of such property a plot plan on which is shown those trees to be removed and those which shall remain after installation of the parking facilities.
(c)
Minimum trees required in parking facilities. There shall be required within the overall landscape plan of any commercial or industrial parking lot development a minimum of one tree for every ten parking spaces contained in the developed parking lot, with a minimum of one tree for each business establishment served by the parking lot.
(d)
Substitution of trees. If, due to development conditions beyond control of the developer of any commercial or industrial property within the city, there does not exist the minimum number of trees as required in subsection (c) of this section, the developer/owner of the property shall ensure the installation and continued maintenance of the required number of trees as directed by the community services department of the city or, in the alternative, the developer/owner shall install and maintain shrubbery and/or planting as directed by the community services department of the city up to the value of the trees required to be installed under the terms and conditions of this article. All trees required to be installed under the conditions of this section shall be a minimum of eight feet in height at time of installation, one inch caliper, and comply with the American Standard for Nursery Stock, on file in the community development office.
(e)
Paving around trees. No pavement consisting of concrete, asphalt or other impervious material shall be permitted within three feet of the outside diameter of any tree located in any parking lot area within the city.
(Code 1978, § 21½-9; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-39)
Sec. 40-42. - Attachments to trees.
It shall be unlawful for any person to tie on, tack, nail or attach in any manner any banner, sign or placard of any kind to any tree.
(Code 1978, § 21½-10; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-40)
Sec. 40-43. - Removal of trees partially on public lands.
The removal of any trees located partially on public land shall be permitted only when it is determined the trunk of such tree at ground level is located more than 50 percent on private property. The person requesting removal of such tree shall be responsible for all costs incurred in connection with the removal, including restoration of public land, utilities and appurtenances to their original condition.
(Code 1978, § 21½-11; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-41)
Sec. 40-44. - Obstructions at intersections of public rights-of-way, drives, walkways, etc.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to plant or maintain any tree, shrub or planting at the intersection of any public right-of-way that will in any way interfere with the clear vision of any person operating any vehicle or a pedestrian entering the intersection. It shall be further unlawful to construct, install or maintain on private property any fence, structure, post, sign, tree, shrub or planting that will interfere with the clear vision of any person operating any vehicle or of a pedestrian entering the intersection.
(b)
The removal of any such fence, structure, post, sign, tree, shrub or planting upon direction of the building official shall be at the expense of the property owner.
(Code 1978, § 21½-12; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-42)
Sec. 40-45. - Overhang onto public property.
No person shall install or maintain any structure, article, fencing, shrubbery, plantings or growth of any nature whatsoever that shall intrude, hang over or extend into any public right-of-way or land wherein such intrusion into the public right-of-way shall prohibit free, unimpeded and safe passage of any person or vehicle utilizing such right-of-way within the city.
(Code 1978, § 21½-13; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-43)
Sec. 40-46. - Enforcement.
The city marshal or his designee shall be charged with the enforcement of this article and is hereby authorized to do all acts necessary to ensure the compliance to the terms and conditions hereof, including, but not limited to, the issuance of citations for violations hereof.
(Code 1978, § 21½-14; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-44)
Sec. 40-47. - Appeals.
If any person shall feel aggrieved with the decision of the building official adversely affecting such person involving the application of this article, such person may, within ten days of the decision of the building official, make a written request to the city commission which shall hear such appeal within 30 days of its receipt. After a full and complete hearing of the appeal thus submitted, the city commission shall render its decision by majority vote of the commission either affirming, overruling or modifying the decision of the building official.
(Code 1978, § 21½-15; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-45)
Sec. 40-48. - Penalty.
Violation of the provisions of this article shall be punishable as provided in section 1-11. The removal or destruction of each tree covered by the terms and conditions of this article shall constitute a separate offense under this article.
(Code 1978, § 21½-16; Code 1993, pt. II, § 94-46)
