ARTICLE II. - DEALERS IN PRECIOUS METALS AND GEMS

Sec. 12-30. - Definition.
The term "dealer in precious metals or gems" is defined as any person engaged in the business of purchasing precious metals or gems, or goods made from precious metals or gems, from persons or sources other than manufacturers or manufacturers' representatives or other dealers in precious metals or gems or a person engaged in any other business if, in conjunction with such business, precious metals or gems or goods made from precious metals or gems are purchased from persons or sources other than manufacturers or manufacturers' representatives or other dealers in precious metals or gems where the purchase is for resale in its original form or as changed by remounting, melting, reforming, remolding or recasting or for resale as scrap or in bulk.
(Ord. of 12-1-81, § a)
Sec. 12-31. - License required; fees.
No person may operate as a dealer in precious metals and gems without obtaining from and paying the required fee to the business license office. The fee for such license is as adopted by the board of commissioners and is on file in the business license office. An application fee for processing the application shall also be paid, and such fee is as adopted by the board of commissioners and on file in the business license office.
Sec. 12-32. - Registration with sheriff.
No person shall engage in business as a dealer in precious metals or gems until such person has registered with the sheriff of this county and obtained a license from the business license office.
(Ord. of 12-1-81, § b)
Sec. 12-33. - Compliance with state law.
Failure to comply with the state law as contained in the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, section 43-37-1 et seq., and as amended, shall be grounds for revocation and termination of the business license.
(Ord. of 12-1-81, § c)
Sec. 12-34. - Revocation of license; petitioning for injunction.
In addition to the revocation of the license for those reasons set forth in section 12-19, the county may petition any court of competent jurisdiction to temporarily and permanently enjoin any violation of this article and to require payment by the violator of all costs of court and attorney's fees incurred by the county.
Sec. 12-35. - Additional miscellaneous provisions.
In addition to the foregoing requirements of this article, and where not inconsistent with the provisions hereof, each applicant shall comply with the provisions of Article I of this chapter.
Secs. 12-36—12-39. - Reserved.
