ARTICLE III. - TRUCK ROUTES; SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD LIMITATIONS

Sec. 82-86. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
City means the City of Douglasville.
Deviating truck means a truck which leaves and departs from a truck route while traveling inside the city.
Person means any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or organization of any kind.
Truck means any car, bus or motor vehicle designed or operated for the transportation over the public streets or highways of persons or property, and whose body weight or whose combined body and load weight exceeds five tons.
Truck route means a way over certain streets as designated in this article, over and along which trucks coming into and going out of the city must operate.
(Code 1977, § 24-85; Ord. No. O-97-42, § 1, 6-23-97)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 82-87. - Penalty for violation.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this article shall be guilty of an offense and shall be punished as provided in section 1-3 of this Code.
(Code 1977, § 24-93)
Sec. 82-88. - Truck route map established.
A truck route map is hereby established as shown on a map entitled "Truck Route Map of Douglasville, Georgia." The original of such map shall be on file in the office of the city clerk for review and inspection and is by this reference made a part of this section.
(Code 1977, § 24-86)
Sec. 82-89. - Application of regulations.
(a)
All trucks within the city shall be operated only over and along the truck routes established in this article.
(b)
Exceptions. This article shall not prohibit:
(1)
Operation on street of destination. The operation of trucks upon any street where necessary to the conduct of business at a destination point, provided streets upon which such traffic is permitted are used until reaching the intersection nearest the destination point.
(2)
Emergency vehicles. The operation of emergency vehicles upon any street in the city.
(3)
Public utilities. The operation of trucks owned or operated by the city, county, state or public utilities, any contractor of material man, while engaged in the repair, maintenance or construction of streets, street improvements or street utilities within the city.
(4)
Detoured trucks. The operation of trucks upon any officially established detour in any case where such truck could lawfully be operated upon the street for which such detour is established. A detour may be established by the city manager, the police chief, or the director of maintenance and sanitation.
(Code 1977, § 24-87; Ord. No. O-2014-58, § 1, 11-17-14)
Sec. 82-90. - Truck route established.
There is hereby established within the city the following truck route.
(1)
Outside origin; outside destination. All trucks entering the city for destination points outside the city shall operate only over the following designated routes:
a.
East or west bound truck traffic shall use U.S. Highway 78.
b.
Northbound traffic shall use State Route 92.
c.
Southeast bound traffic shall use State Route 92.
d.
Southwest bound traffic shall use State Route 5.
e.
As an option, low slung vehicles may use East Strickland Street from Mozley Street West to State Route 92 or West Strickland Street from Rose Avenue East to State Route 92.
f.
As an option to use of portions of State Route 92 east of Hospital Drive, northbound vehicles and southeast bound vehicles may use Hospital Drive from its intersection with State Route 92 southwest to its intersection with Campbellton Street, and Campbellton Street from its intersection with Hospital Drive south to its intersection with Interstate Highway 20.
(Code 1977, § 24-88; Ord. No. O-98-77, § 1, 10-19-98)
Sec. 82-91. - Truck traffic in the city.
(a)
One inside destination point. All trucks entering the city for a destination point in the city shall proceed only over an established truck route and shall deviate only at the intersection nearest to the destination point. Upon leaving the destination point, a deviating truck shall return to the truck route by the shortest permissible route.
(b)
Multiple inside destination points. All trucks entering the city for multiple destination points shall proceed only over established truck routes and shall deviate only at the intersection nearest to the first destination point. Upon leaving the first destination point, a deviating truck shall proceed to other destination points by the shortest direction. Upon leaving the last destination point, a deviating truck shall return to the truck route by the shortest permissible route.
(c)
Inside origin trips.
(1)
Outside destination point. All trucks on a trip originating in the city shall proceed by the shortest direction to a truck route as established in this article.
(2)
Inside destination points. All trucks on a trip originating in the city and traveling in the city for destination points in the city shall proceed to a truck route as established in this article.
(Code 1977, § 24-89)
Sec. 82-92. - Maximum width, height and length limitations.
No vehicle operated upon any public street within the city exclusive of those public streets which are also a part of the state or federal highway system, except vehicles designed to carry passengers shall exceed a total outside width, including load thereon, of 96 inches, not including mirrors and accessories attached thereto. No vehicle unloaded or with a load shall exceed a height of 13 feet, six inches. No vehicle or combination of vehicles shall exceed a total length of 55 feet.
(Code 1977, § 24-90)
Sec. 82-93. - Maximum weight of vehicles using city streets.
No vehicle operating upon any public street within the city limits of Douglasville, exclusive of those streets which are a part of the state or federal highway system, shall exceed five tons and be equipped with three or more axles, except vehicles that are required to deviate from the established truck route as covered in section 82-91.
(Code 1977, § 24-91)
Sec. 82-94. - Enforcement.
(a)
The chief of police of the city shall cause all truck routes to be clearly sign-posted to give notice that this article is in effect.
(b)
The chief of police shall have the authority to require any person driving or in control of any commercial vehicle not proceeding over a truck route and not in the process of making or picking up a delivery to proceed to any public or private scale available for the purpose of weighing and determining whether this article has been complied with.
(Code 1977, § 24-92)
Secs. 82-95—82-120. - Reserved.
