Chapter 86 - UTILITIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; buildings and building regulations, ch. 22; plumbing code, § 22-166 et seq.; energy code for buildings, § 22-286 et seq.; housing code, § 22-311 et seq.; community development, ch. 34; fire prevention and protection, ch. 42; tampering with fire hydrant, § 42-4; floods, ch. 46; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 54; entry on city reservoir property, § 58-8; discharge of phosphates, § 58-13; solid waste, ch. 70; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 74; utilities in city streets or rights-of-way, § 74-166 et seq.; subdivision regulations, app. B; required improvements in subdivisions, app. B, § 110 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 86-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Consumer means any person, establishment, unit or space served on or through any water meter other than the customer in whose name the meter is listed or from whom payment may be required.
Customer means the owner of the property served by a water connection, or the tenant, lessee, renter, establishment or occupant of such property, or the person in or against whose name the water connection for such property is listed on the books and records of the city, and who is responsible to the city for payment of bills incurred for water furnished to such property and for use by such property of the public sewer system of the city, either or both.
Minimum monthly bill means the fixed minimum monthly payment required for a water meter or connection calculated under the provisions of this chapter. Single customers or meter services serving more than one family or dwelling unit per meter shall be charged a minimum monthly bill equal to the minimum monthly billing rate multiplied by the number of family or dwelling units served by such meter. Charges for all amounts exceeding the minimum monthly usage amount per unit shall be charged as all other customers or consumers. This shall apply to all water, sewer and garbage services provided by the city.
User means a water customer whose property also discharges sewage, wastes or water into the public sanitary sewer system of the city in any quantity.
Utility means water, sewer and/or any other utility service furnished by the city to consumers thereof.
(Code 1977, § 25-1)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 86-2. - Scope of provisions.
All pertinent provisions of this chapter are hereby made a part of the terms and conditions whereby the city shall furnish any utility service to any person, or whereby the city shall make any utility connections or perform any work of any kind in connection with the furnishing of any utility service pursuant to the rules and regulations of the mayor and council.
(Code 1977, § 25-2)
Sec. 86-3. - Service to comply with technical provisions.
Any utility service furnished under the provisions of this chapter shall be in accordance with and in compliance with all applicable technical provisions of this Code, state law and city ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Code 1977, § 25-3)
Sec. 86-4. - Rules, regulations.
The mayor and council shall have the authority to establish by rule or regulation such standards and specifications as may be deemed necessary for the installation, construction and maintenance of any utility service system owned and operated by the city within or without the city and under the management of the city. Such rules, regulations, standards and specifications shall be filed in the office of the city clerk. Violation of such rules, regulations, standards and specifications shall be deemed an offense punishable as provided in section 1-3 of this Code.
(Code 1977, § 25-4)
Sec. 86-5. - Area of service.
The area of service for all utilities owned and/or operated by the city shall be the area that is contained within the corporate limits. To be served by a city utility the building, establishment, unit, space or other improvement must be wholly, and in its entirety, located within the corporate limits of the city; however, the mayor and council upon application, may, in its discretion, permit utility service to be extended to a building, establishment, unit, space or other improvement which, by a reason of its location, cannot be served under this section.
(Code 1977, § 25-5)
Sec. 86-6. - Compliance with building code and other codes.
No building, establishment, unit, space or other improvement shall be served by a utility owned and/or operated by the city unless such building, establishment, unit, space or other improvement was constructed under a building permit, plumbing permit or other required permit issued by the city and was inspected during the construction thereof as required by the codes, rules, and regulations of the city which are applicable. If the building, establishment, unit, space or other improvement was built or constructed before April, 1972, then such building, establishment, unit, space or other improvement may be served by a utility owned and/or operated by the city after inspection by the building official and certification that such building, establishment, unit, space or other improvement complies with all applicable codes, rules and regulations of the city.
(Code 1977, § 25-5.1)
Sec. 86-7. - Right of entry.
Any authorized inspector of the city shall have free access at any time to all premises supplied with any utility service by the city for the purpose of examination in order to protect the utility service from abusive use.
(Code 1977, § 25-6)
Sec. 86-8. - Termination of service authorized.
The city shall have the right to disconnect or refuse to connect or reconnect any utility service for the following reasons pertaining to that utility service, such as water and sewer:
(1)
Failure to meet the applicable provisions of law.
(2)
Violation of the rules and regulations pertaining to utility service.
(3)
Nonpayment of bills.
(4)
Willful or negligent waste of service due to improper or imperfect pipes, fixtures, appliances or otherwise.
(5)
Molesting any meter, seal or other equipment controlling or regulating the supply of utility service.
(6)
Theft or diversion and/or use of service without payment therefor.
(7)
Vacancy of premises.
(Code 1977, § 25-7)
Sec. 86-9. - Liability of city for damage.
The city shall not be liable for any damage to any customer of any utility service furnished by the city due to backflow of the sewerage system, failure of supply, interruption of service or any other cause outside the direct control of the city.
(Code 1977, § 25-8)
Sec. 86-10. - Utility service—Application required.
Any person desiring any utility service furnished by the city shall make application for the same to the water department.
(Code 1977, § 25-9)
Sec. 86-11. - Same—Use assumed.
All premises connected to any utility service of the city shall be assumed to be using such utility service and the owner or occupant shall be charged therefor so long as such premises remain connected with the utility service.
(Code 1977, § 25-10)
Sec. 86-12. - Damage, trespass of equipment.
It shall be unlawful for any person, not having authority to do so, to open any water hydrant or tamper with any utility service furnished by the city to consumers, or to in any other way molest, damage or trespass upon any equipment or premises belonging to the city connected with any utility service.
(Code 1977, § 25-12)
Sec. 86-13. - Restricting use.
The city hereby reserves the right to at any time restrict or prevent the use of any utility service furnished by the city during periods of emergency or circumstances demanding such restriction or prevention of use.
(Code 1977, § 25-14)
Sec. 86-14. - Sale of service by customer.
It shall be unlawful for any person to resell any utility service obtained from the city to others except by special arrangement with the mayor and council.
(Code 1977, § 25-15)
Sec. 86-15. - Unlawful connections.
Any person who shall make any connection in any manner to any utility system, whether owned by the city or not, without the prior knowledge and consent of the owner of such utility system shall be deemed guilty of an offense punishable as provided in section 1-3 of this Code.
(Code 1977, § 25-18)
Secs. 86-16—86-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RATES AND CHARGES

Sec. 86-46. - Penalty for nonpayment; discontinuance of service; charge for resumption of service.
(a)
If any consumer, customer or user of any water, sewer, garbage or similar utility service provided by the City of Douglasville fails to make payment for such service within 15 days from the date a bill is rendered for such service, there shall be added to the total charges on the bill or statement for said services, a penalty of ten percent of the gross amount of the entire statement. If the entire amount together with the penalty is not paid by such consumer, customer or user on or before five days from the date such penalty is assessed, then the service or services received by such consumer, customer or user shall be discontinued and stopped immediately; provided that payments owed for one service such as garbage collection shall not be grounds for discontinuance of another service such as water and sewer.
(b)
After service has been discontinued for nonpayment, the consumer, customer or user will be required to pay all outstanding charges for the service or services plus all penalties, and a fee of $5.00 before service will be resumed. In cases where the discontinuance of service results in the removal of any metering devices or receptacles, then the city, in its discretion, may require as a condition to resumption of service the payment of fees and charges for the reinstallation of metering devices and receptacles.
(Code 1977, § 25-38)
Cross reference— Fees for refuse collection, § 70-41.
Secs. 86-47—86-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - SEWERS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Charter reference— Authority to construct, build, maintain, sewers, sewage treatment, § 1.03(h).
Cross reference— Plumbing code, § 22-166 et seq.; discharge of phosphates, § 58-13.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 86-71. - Unlawful discharge of sewage.
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or allow to be discharged any sewage into or upon any highway, stream, open drain or watercourse, or onto any drain, cesspool, or private sewer.
(Code 1977, § 25-57)
Sec. 86-72. - Discharge from kitchens, etc., to be through sink to sanitary sewer.
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any sewerage or waste from kitchens, washings of clothing or of meats, fish or other foods, otherwise than through a sink, which shall be properly connected with the sanitary sewerage system of the city by proper piping.
(Code 1977, § 25-58)
Sec. 86-73. - Discharge from water closets or toilets and bathrooms.
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any sewerage or waste from water closets or toilets and bathrooms otherwise than through a system of proper piping which shall be connected with the sanitary sewerage system of the city.
(Code 1977, § 25-59)
Sec. 86-74. - Drainage of surface water or stormwater into sewerage system prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drain or allow to be drained any surface water or stormwater into the sewerage system of the city, unless the sewer drained into shall be a regular storm sewer.
(Code 1977, § 25-60)
Sec. 86-75. - Washwater, garbage, etc., prohibited in surface closet.
No washwater, garbage, kitchen slops or other liquid wastes shall be emptied into a surface closet.
(Code 1977, § 25-61)
Sec. 86-76. - Oxidation pond, ditch prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, operate or maintain a sewage treatment facility commonly known as an oxidation pond or oxidation ditch within the corporate limits of the city. All persons who contribute or assist in any manner to the construction, operation or maintenance of such a prohibited facility shall be deemed to have violated this section.
(Code 1977, § 25-62)
Secs. 86-77—86-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CONNECTIONS

Sec. 86-91. - Repair of streets to be made by owner.
The owner of any property or building to be connected with the sewerage system shall repair any and all breaks in the street paving or ballast made necessary by his connection with the sewerage system. The expense of this repair shall be borne by the owner of the property or building to be connected, and such repair must be approved by the superintendent of streets or by the city engineer.
(Code 1977, § 25-75)
Sec. 86-92. - Repair of settlement over drains.
Any settlement over a drain connected with the sewerage system on any street or public way occurring within 60 days after the laying of a drain shall be repaired at the expense of the owner of the property or building connected and by the owner of the property or building connected.
(Code 1977, § 25-76)
Sec. 86-93. - Method of opening trenches in streets.
In opening trenches in any street or public way, the paving or ballast must be removed with care, the sides of the trench must be sheeted or braced when directed and in the manner directed by the city engineer or superintendent of streets. The earth thrown from the trench must be placed so as not to obstruct the gutter and so as to cause the least obstruction to public travel. Gas and water pipes must be protected from injury, the trench enclosed and lighted at night and every precaution taken to prevent injury to persons or property during the progress of the work.
(Code 1977, § 25-77)
