ARTICLE IX. - CONVENTION AND VISITORS BUREAU ADVISORY BOARD

Sec. 2-341. - Mission statement.
The mission of the convention and visitors bureau (CVB) is to solicit convention and meeting groups, tourists, tour groups and special events, and to aid other local organizations in creating, executing, and promoting events and activities which will attract visitors to the city.
The CVB is to represent all segments of the hospitality industry which includes lodging and meeting facilities, special events, restaurants, recreational facilities and events, historic attractions and events, cultural facilities and activities, and other social functions which are attractive to visitors. The CVB is to design, produce, maintain and distribute a variety of brochures and other collateral materials to promote the attractions, accommodations and facilities of the city, thereby increasing awareness of tourism in the area. The CVB is to strive to obtain support and acceptance from the citizens of the city and the county, the Atlanta area news media, and the local business community. The CVB is to participate with the Georgia Department of Economic Development and various national, state and regional associations whose goals are to promote tourism and attract visitors.
(Res. No. R-98-95, 11-2-98; Ord. No. O-2020-37 , § 1, 8-3-20)
Sec. 2-342. - Membership.
The convention and visitors bureau shall have an advisory board made up of representatives from various segments of the community. The purpose of the advisory board is to offer guidance and counsel to the tourism program manager, within the organizational structure of the city, and for the tourism program manager to share information regarding CVB activities and events with the members of the board. Board members should be committed to keep abreast of developments in tourism and local issues and to attend regular meetings.
The CVB advisory board shall be made up of ten representatives as follows: Three representatives from the lodging industry; two representatives from the restaurant industry; two representatives from the retail industry; one city representative; one cultural arts council representative; and one chamber of commerce representative. Every effort shall be made to secure representatives from the local community. Additional community representatives may be added at the discretion of the mayor and city council.
Advisory board members shall be appointed by the mayor and city council with the initial terms staggered with half the members serving one-year terms and the other half serving two-year terms. Subsequent terms will all be for two years. The CVB tourism program manager and future advisory boards shall make recommendations to the mayor and city council for appointments to the advisory board. Board members shall serve until their successors are appointed. Board members shall not receive a salary, although they may be reimbursed for authorized expenses.
(Res. No. R-98-95, 11-2-98; Ord. No. O-2020-37 , § 1, 8-3-20)
Secs. 2-343—2-360. - Reserved.
