ARTICLE III. - ELECTRICAL CODE

Sec. 6-30. - Code adopted.
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing standards and procedures affecting the installation of electrical systems and electrical materials, the Georgia State Minimum National Electric Code, latest addition, as adopted by the State of Georgia. The National Electric Code published by National Fire Protection Association, 60 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, Massachusetts, and said code is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. At least one (1) copy of the electrical code is on file in the office of the building official.
(Ord. of 9-17-91; Ord. of 8-19-97)
Sec. 6-31. - Electrical advisory board.
(a)
Appointment. There is hereby established the board to be called the electrical advisory board, which shall consist of four (4) members. Each member shall be a master electrician registered by the county. Said board shall be appointed by the board of commissioners and shall take office upon appointment. The board shall elect a chairman.
(b)
Term of office. Each member shall serve a term of four (4) years. Vacancies shall be filled by the board of commissioners. Continued absence of any member from regular meetings of the board shall, at the discretion of the chairman, render any such member liable to immediate removal from office.
(c)
Duties. The powers of said board are expressly limited to advisory powers with respect to electrical installation, except where additional powers are expressly set out in this Code, three (3) members of said board shall constitute a quorum thereof for the transaction of any business properly coming before them.
(d)
Procedure. The board shall establish rules and regulations for its own procedure not inconsistent with the provisions of this Code. The board shall meet at regular intervals, to be determined by the chairman, or in any event, the board shall meet within ten (10) days after notice of appeal has been received.
(e)
Records. The chief electrical inspector shall act as a secretary of the electrical advisory board and shall make a detailed record of all its proceedings, which shall set forth the reasons for its decisions, the vote of each member participating therein, the absence of a member, and any failure of a member to vote.
Sec. 6-32. - Electrical permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to commence any electrical installation until a permit has been obtained from and the required fee paid to the permit office.
Sec. 6-33. - Permit and/or inspection fees.
Electrical permit and/or inspection fees shall be as provided in a schedule adopted by the board of commissioners and on file in the office of the building official.
Sec. 6-34. - Electrical installation or maintenance by homeowner.
Nothing in this article shall prevent a homeowner from installing or maintaining electrical systems for residential purposes within such person's own property boundaries, provided such electrical work is done personally and is used exclusively by such person or such person's family. Such privilege does not grant the right to violate any of the provisions of the code, nor is it to be construed as exempting any such property owner from obtaining a permit and paying the required fees therefor.
Sec. 6-35. - Electrical installation for mobile homes.
No installation of electrical service for mobile homes shall be made without complying with the specifications for installation on file in the office of the building official.
Secs. 6-36—6-39. - Reserved.
