Chapter 22 - HUMAN RELATIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 22-1—22-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FAIR HOUSING[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Fair housing, O.C.G.A. § 8-3-200 et seq.; local fair housing ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 8-3-220.

Sec. 22-19. - State prohibitions adopted.
The provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 8-3-202—8-3-205 and 8-3-222, as now or hereafter amended, are hereby adopted by reference as if set out in length in this article.
Sec. 22-20. - Complaint procedure.
Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice, or who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by a discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur, may file a complaint with the director of the department of community development. The complaint shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be in such form as the director requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the director shall furnish a copy of the same to the person who allegedly committed or is about to commit the alleged discriminatory housing practice. Within 30 days after receiving a complaint, the director shall investigate the complaint and give notice in writing to the person claiming to have been injured whether he intends to resolve it. If the director decides to resolve the complaint, he shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of conference, conciliation, and persuasion. If the director has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this article, he shall then refer such complaints to a board of housing appeals.
(Code 1978, § 10½-5; Code 1993, pt. II, § 54-30)
Sec. 22-21. - Creation of board of housing appeals; duties, additional appeal.
The board of housing appeals will be created by the city and will consist of no more than seven or less than five members. The board will have 30 days to review complaints, mediate or negotiate differences remaining unresolved by the director of community development. After a 30-day period, the housing appeals board will make a recommendation to the city for future action. If the board of housing appeals has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this article after acting with reasonable promptness, it shall so notify the person claiming to have been injured. The person claiming to have been injured may then commence a civil action in any appropriate court against the respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected by this article, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint.
(Code 1978, § 10½-6; Code 1993, pt. II, § 54-31)
