Chapter 2-3 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Occupational licenses, § 2-10-2.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-3-1. - Granting or revoking licenses at board's discretion.
Licenses to sell alcoholic beverages may be granted or revoked at the discretion of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1979, § 3-2-36)
Sec. 2-3-2. - Sale on election days authorized.
Pursuant to the delegation of authority granted to this governing authority by Official Code of Georgia Annotated, section 3-3-20(b)(2)(B), the sale by wholesale and retail of alcoholic beverages, to-wit: Distilled spirits, wine and malt beverages shall be lawful during the polling hours of any election; provided, however, nothing herein shall authorize the sale of alcoholic beverages within two hundred fifty (250) feet of a polling place during such time as the polls are opened.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-59; Res. No. 85-028, § 1, 12-2-85)
Sec. 2-3-2.1. - Sunday package sales of malt beverages, wine and distilled spirits.
All establishments licensed to engage in the retail package sale of malt beverages, wine and distilled spirits may sell said malt beverages, wine and distilled spirits on Sundays between the hours of 12:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m.
(Res. No. 19-071, § I, 12-2-19)
Sec. 2-3-3. - Excise tax.
There is hereby imposed, levied and assessed a special or excise tax upon the sales of malt beverages, wine and spirituous liquors:
(1)
Upon the retail sales of malt beverages, wines and spirituous liquors within the County and outside the municipality of Albany, a special or excise tax to be computed upon the following basis:
a.
Retail dealers in spirituous liquors, eighty cents ($0.80) per wine gallon;
b.
Retail dealers in wine, eighty cents ($0.80) per wine gallon; and
c.
Wholesale dealers in malt beverages; fifty-three and one-third cents ($0.53 1/3 ) per gallon; provided that where the sale of malt beverages is in bottles, cans or other containers of sizes less than or more than one (1) gallon, the tax imposed on such container will be that proportion of fifty-three and one-third cents ($0.53 1/3 ) which the size of the container bears to one (1) gallon; provided further that the tax on tap or draft beer sold in or from a barrel or other bulk container be at the rate of nineteen and thirty-five hundredths cents ($0.1935) per gallon.
(2)
The above taxes shall be in addition to all other taxes or licenses now imposed against such retail dealers.
(3)
The above tax on retail sales shall be paid by the retail dealers to the clerk of the commissioners by the tenth day of each month and all provisions of the law shall be applicable thereto.
(4)
The wholesale dealers are hereby authorized to collect the taxes herein imposed upon retail dealers in such malt beverages, wine and liquor in accordance with the schedule and regulations hereinabove stated and remit the same to the clerk of the board of commissioners by the tenth day of each month; provided, further, that the provisions of this section shall apply to all of the wholesalers selling to the retail trade within the county and outside the municipality of Albany, regardless of the residence or place of business of such wholesaler.
(Code 1979, § 3-2-51)
Cross reference— Joint agreement for collection, § 1-2-20(10).
State Law reference— Local excise taxes, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-4-80, 3-4-131, 3-5-80, 3-6-60, 3-7-61.
Sec. 2-3-4. - Enforcing underage drinking law coalition established.
(a)
The establishment of an enforcing underage drinking law coalition between the City of Albany and Dougherty County is hereby approved and authorized.
(b)
The Albany Police Department will be the lead agency in a county-wide collaborative effort to request funds for addressing the issue of underage drinking in Dougherty County. The City of Albany will be the fiscal agent for any grant funds received.
(c)
Upon receipt of grant funds, the city police department, the county sheriff's office, and the county police department, along with the district attorney of Dougherty County's office will work together to implement any grant funds received. The Albany Dougherty Drug Unit will coordinate the law enforcement efforts.
(d)
The objectives of the coalition will be to:
(1)
Provide for educational and public awareness campaigns and organizational activities;
(2)
Develop comprehensive strategic plans based on local needs assessments which include input from law enforcement, youth, vendors, community leaders and parents;
(3)
Develop uniform local data collection systems to gather information on violations of state and local alcohol laws and regulations;
(4)
Institute more effective local laws and regulations governing alcohol beverage industry sales, advertising and licensing;
(5)
Establish youth coalitions or other youth led initiatives to assist in the development and implementation of local strategies;
(6)
Provide additional resources to law enforcement agencies allowing them to expand the number of undercover compliance checks aimed at local alcohol vendors;
(7)
Provide responsible alcohol service training and technical assistance to vendors and their employees to assist them in curtailing illegal sales to underage persons;
(8)
To coordinate all local activities through statewide policy development and public education/awareness campaign.
(Res. No. 02-033, §§ 1—4, 8-5-02)
Editor's note— Res. No. 02-033, §§ 1—4, adopted Aug. 5, 2002, pertained to the establishment of and enforcing underage drinking law coalition. Such resolution did not specify manner of codification; hence, inclusion as § 2-3-4 was at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 2-3-5. - Training required.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, distribute or to sell or offer for sale at wholesale or retail in the unincorporated area of Dougherty County any alcoholic beverage without having the required alcohol beverage license.
(b)
All existing holders of alcoholic beverage licenses for consumption on premises or the retail sale of alcoholic beverages at the time of the passage of this section [December 6, 2004] shall be required to pay for and complete county certified license holder training within three (3) months immediately following the passage of this section.
(c)
All new applicants for alcoholic beverage licenses for consumption on premises or the retail sale of alcoholic beverages shall be required to pay for and complete county certified license holder training before such alcoholic beverage license shall be issued.
(d)
The license holder certification shall be valid for three (3) years for the license holder. Any change in the ownership for license holder will require the license holder to again pay for and complete county certified license holder training.
(e)
All holders of alcoholic beverage licenses for consumption on premises and for the retail sale of alcoholic beverages establishments, shall be responsible for training all employees engaged by the holder in the sale of alcoholic beverages. If the license holder allows any employee to sell or serve alcoholic beverages in violation of section 2-3-81, such license holder shall be subject to an administrative penalty of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
(Res. No. 04-042, § 1, 12-6-04)
Secs. 2-3-6—2-3-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ON-PREMISES CONSUMPTION OF DISTILLED SPIRITS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-3-20. - Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them:
Distilled spirits: Include, but are not limited to, whiskey, rum, gin, brandy, vodka, tequila and all alcoholic beverages of a similar nature and a similar alcoholic content.
Hotel: Any building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, and having one (1) or more public dining rooms, with adequate and sanitary kitchen where meals are regularly served to such guests, such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or in separate buildings or structures used in connection therewith that are on the same premises and are a part of the hotel operation. Motels meeting the qualifications set out herein for hotels shall be classified in the same category as hotels.
Licensee: A person holding a license to engage in the sale of distilled spirits for consumption on the premises.
Lounge: An establishment which shall have all booths, stools and tables unobstructed and open to view.
Nightclub: An establishment which shall have all booths and tables unobstructed and open to view and providing a band and/or other professional entertainment, a minimum of twenty (20) days per month, every month, with the exception of holidays, vacations and periods of redecorating. All such nightclubs shall maintain an adequate kitchen with a sufficient number of servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for their patrons, provided that nightclubs located in hotels having dining room and kitchen facilities may be excluded from maintaining a kitchen in connection with such nightclub. The principal business of such nightclubs shall be entertainment and the serving of food and of distilled spirits shall be incidental thereto.
Premises: The definite closed or partitioned-in locality, whether room, shop or building wherein distilled spirits are sold by the drink.
Private club: A corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state, actively in operation within the unincorporated areas of the county immediately prior to the application for a license hereunder, hiring or leasing a building or space therein for the reasonable use of its members with suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment and maintaining and using a sufficient number of servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guests.
Restaurant: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are served and where meals are actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such place being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment, having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests. At least one (1) meal per day shall be served at least six (6) days a week, with the exception of holidays, vacations and periods of redecorating, and the serving of such meals shall be the principal business conducted, with the serving of distilled spirits to be consumed on the premises as only incidental thereto.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-41)
State Law reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-1-2, 3-3-20, 3-4-1, 3-5-1, 3-5-29, 3-6-1, 3-7-1.
Sec. 2-3-21. - Employee restrictions.
It shall be unlawful for any employees of such nightclubs or of lounges to dance or sit with customers in the premises or for any customer to be permitted to purchase food or drink for such employees in such premises.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-43)
Sec. 2-3-22. - Service only by employees.
Drinks hereunder shall only be served by the employees of the establishment.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-56)
Sec. 2-3-23. - Employees to be instructed.
It shall be the duty of the management of premises licensed hereunder to maintain a copy of this article on such premises and to instruct each employee of the terms thereof.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-77)
Sec. 2-3-24. - Premises to be kept sanitary; disturbances, obscenity, etc.
(a)
All premises shall be kept clean and in proper sanitary condition and in full compliance with the provisions and regulations governing the conditions of premises used for the storage and sale of food for human consumption.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to permit any disturbance of the peace or obscenity or any lewd, immoral or improper entertainment, conduct or practices.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-42)
Sec. 2-3-25. - Sale to minors or incapacitated persons.
No person who holds a license to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink shall sell or give away, or permit the sale or gift to, or the procuring for, any such beverages to any minor, to any person who is mentally incompetent or to any person who is physically or mentally incapacitated due to the consumption of alcoholic beverage.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-44)
State Law reference— Sale, etc., as to minors, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23; sale, etc., to intoxicated person, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-22.
Sec. 2-3-26. - Minors prohibited on licensed premises unless accompanied by parent or guardian.
No person who holds a license to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink shall allow any minors to be in, frequent or loiter about the licensed premises of the nightclub or lounge unless such minors are accompanied by a parent or legal guardian; provided, however, that such minors shall be permitted in restaurants or private clubs as defined herein without being accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-45)
Sec. 2-3-27. - Misrepresentation of age by minors.
It shall be unlawful for any minor to falsely misrepresent such minor's age in any manner whatsoever.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-46)
Sec. 2-3-28. - Service in back rooms.
The sale of spirituous liquors for consumption by persons in any back room or side room which is not open to general public use is prohibited, except that private parties or conventions which have been scheduled in advance, may be served in public or private dining rooms or meeting rooms and, provided further, that this prohibition shall not apply to private clubs hereunder or to the registered guests of any hotel or motel in their designated rooms.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-47)
Sec. 2-3-29. - Advertising of liquor by drink.
No licensee hereunder shall advertise in any news media or by any other means the fact that distilled spirits by the drink may be purchased at such establishment; provided that the licensees hereunder shall be permitted to use the words "your favorite beverages served."
(Code 1979, § 7-2-75)
Sec. 2-3-30. - Size of containers.
The holders of licenses may purchase from wholesalers licensed by the City of Albany or the county, in sizes of one-fifth of a gallon, seven hundred fifty (750) milliliters, or larger containers unless a particular brand is not packaged in these size contents, and then said license holders may purchase said brand in the nearest size to said containers.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-52)
Sec. 2-3-31. - Legal hours of sale.
All establishments licensed to engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises which derive at least fifty (50) percent of their total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or food in all of the combined retailed outlets of the individual establishment where food is served or derive at least fifty (50) percent of their total annual gross income from the rental of rooms from overnight lodging, may sell alcohol beverages for consumption on the premises on Sundays from 11:00 a.m. until 12:00 Midnight, provided in any year where December 31 falls on a Sunday, such sales may take place between the hours of 12:01 a.m. Monday January 1 until 2:55 a.m. Monday, January 1. For other days of the week, no license holder shall dispense any alcoholic beverages between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-54; Res. No. 19-070, § I, 12-2-19)
State Law reference— Sales on Sunday, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-3-7, 3-3-20.
Sec. 2-3-32. - Refilling bottles; misrepresenting brand.
It shall be unlawful for licensees hereunder to add to the contents of a bottle or to refill empty bottles or in any other manner to misrepresent the quantity, quality or brand name of any alcoholic beverage.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-55)
Sec. 2-3-33. - Outside sales.
It shall be unlawful for any sales to be made outside of the building, premises or place of business licensed for such sale except as permitted herein.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-57)
Sec. 2-3-34. - Employment of minors.
No licensee hereunder shall employ any minor in such licensee's establishment.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-60)
Sec. 2-3-35. - Trains and airplanes exempt.
Nothing herein shall prohibit the serving of distilled spirits by the drink on dining or club cars of trains or on airplanes in transit on regular schedules.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-53)
State Law reference— Dispensing by minors, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-24.
Secs. 2-3-36—2-3-39. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 2-3-40. - License required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell distilled spirits for use or consumption on the premises without the license required herein.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-78)
Cross reference— License tax, § 2-10-2.
Sec. 2-3-41. - Disqualifying factors.
(a)
Conviction of crime. No original license shall be issued to any person organized for pecuniary gain where any individual having an interest either as owner, partner, principal or stockholder, directly or indirectly beneficial or absolute, or such person's spouse, shall have been convicted or shall have taken a plea of nolo contendere within ten (10) years immediately prior to the filing of the application for any felony or misdemeanor of any state or of the United States or violation of any municipal ordinance except traffic violations; the term "conviction" shall include an adjudication of guilt or a plea of guilty or nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond when charged with a crime; where the offense was a misdemeanor or a violation of a municipal ordinance, the board of commissioners may, after investigation, waive same as a disqualification.
(b)
Citizenship. No license hereunder shall be granted to any person unless the person or such person's manager or the person actually in charge of the operation of the business is both a resident of Dougherty County and a citizen of the United States.
(c)
Issuance to restaurants, etc., only. No license shall be issued to any applicant who does not meet the requirements of a restaurant, hotel, private club, lounge or nightclub as defined herein.
(d)
Interest in wholesale liquor business; financial assistance. No person shall hold a license hereunder who also have any direct financial interest in any wholesale liquor business. No financial aid or assistance to any licensee hereunder from any wholesaler or manufacturer of intoxicating liquors shall be permitted; provided, however, that this section shall not be applicable to private clubs as defined herein.
(Code 1979, §§ 7-2-49, 7-2-68; Res. No. 16-015, § I, 4-4-16)
Sec. 2-3-42. - Application—Filing; form.
(a)
The board of commissioners shall have authority to prescribe forms for new or renewal applications hereunder.
(b)
New applications hereunder shall be dated with the time of filing with the office of the board of commissioners and designated as to type of operation (nightclub, lounge, restaurant, hotel and motel, etc.) followed by a number to designate the order of filing; said numbers to begin anew with each calendar year; preference shall be given, in each category, whenever feasible, to the order in which said applications are filed.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-67)
Sec. 2-3-43. - Same—Notice.
All applicants for new licenses hereunder shall give notice of the purpose of making such application by advertisement once a week for four (4) weeks prior to a regular commission meeting in the daily paper published in the county in which the legal advertisements of the county are carried, which notice shall contain a particular description of the location of the proposed business and shall give the name of the applicant, and the date and time the board of commissioners would hear the application. The advertisement referred to herein shall be of type not smaller than six-point capital and lower case.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-62)
Sec. 2-3-44. - Same—Applicants must furnish requested information.
(a)
All applicants shall furnish all data, information and records requested of them by the board of commissioners and failure to furnish such data, information and records within thirty (30) days from the date of such request shall automatically serve to dismiss, with prejudice, the application.
(b)
Applicants, by filing an application, agree to produce for oral interrogation any persons requested by the board of commissioners, considered as being important in the ascertainment of the facts relative to such license. The failure to produce any such person within thirty (30) days after being requested to do so shall result in the automatic dismissal of such application.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-73)
Sec. 2-3-45. - Same—Misinformation cause for denial or revocation.
Any untrue or misleading information contained in or material omission from any original, renewal or transfer application for a license hereunder shall be cause for the denial thereof, and, if any license has been granted under these circumstances, there shall be cause for the revocation of same.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-74)
Sec. 2-3-46. - Public safety committee; authority.
(a)
The public safety committee of the board of commissioners is delegated the authority to conduct the hearings herein and report its findings and recommendations to the board of commissioners.
(b)
The public safety committee is delegated the authority to suspend any license hereunder; said suspension may be made effective immediately and remain in force until the next regular meeting of the board of commissioners. Nothing herein limits the public safety committee's power to suspend for a time expiring prior to the first regular meeting of the board of commissioners occurring thereafter.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-65)
Sec. 2-3-47. - Factors considered in issuing licenses.
In determining whether or not any license applied for hereunder shall be granted, the following, among other things, shall be considered, in the public interest and welfare:
(1)
The applicant's reputation and character, and mental and physical capacity to conduct the business;
(2)
If applicant is a previous holder of a license to sell alcoholic beverages, whether or not applicant has violated any law, regulation or ordinance relating to such business;
(3)
If applicant is a previous holder of a license to sell alcoholic beverages, the manner in which applicant conducted the business thereunder as to the necessity for unusual police observation and inspection in order to prevent the violation of any law, regulation or ordinance relating to such business;
(4)
The location for which the license is sought as to traffic congestion, general character of neighborhood and the effect such an establishment would have on the adjacent and surrounding property values;
(5)
The number of licenses already granted for similar businesses in the trading area of the place for which the license is sought;
(6)
If dancing is to be permitted upon the premises for which the license is sought, and the applicant has previously permitted dancing upon any premises controlled or supervised by such applicant, the manner in which applicant controlled or supervised such dancing to prevent any violation of any law, regulation or ordinance; and
(7)
Whether applicant is a person whose license issued under the police powers of the county has been previously suspended or revoked.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-48)
Sec. 2-3-48. - Granting or denying.
(a)
Licenses hereunder shall be mere grants or privileges and the board of commissioners shall have the discretion to approve or deny any application for a license to sell distilled spirits by the drink.
(b)
No license shall be issued until the application for the license has been approved by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1979, §§ 7-2-63, 7-2-69)
Sec. 2-3-49. - License fee; amount, due date, proration; expiration of permit.
(a)
An annual license fee as provided in section 2-10-2 shall be charged for the initial license is sued to any licensee hereunder and for each renewal.
(b)
A license granted hereunder shall include the combined purposes of selling distilled spirits, wines, champagnes and malt beverages by the drink.
(c)
All license fees hereunder shall be paid in advance on or before January first of each year and any new license granted hereunder during a calendar year shall pay the full license fee without proration, except that the fee for a new license granted after June thirtieth in any calendar year shall be fifty (50) percent of the above-stated annual fees for the remainder of that calendar year.
(d)
All licenses must be obtained and fees paid not later than two (2) weeks from the date of the approval of the application by the board of commissioners and if not so obtained, the permit shall be void.
(Code 1979, §§ 7-2-50, 7-2-61)
State Law reference— Maximum fee, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-50.
Sec. 2-3-50. - Licenses issued for calendar year; no refunds.
No license shall be issued for less than a calendar year period, or the remainder thereof, and in case of the revocation or surrender or such license before the expiration of such calendar year period, the holder thereof shall not be entitled to receive any refund whatsoever.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-58)
Sec. 2-3-51. - License forfeited for nonuse.
Any holder of license hereunder who shall begin the operation of the business and sale of the products as authorized in the license, but who shall, for a period of nine (9) consecutive months thereafter, cease to operate the business and sale of the products authorized in the license, shall upon completion of the nine-month period automatically forfeit the license, which license shall, by virtue of said failure to operate, be canceled without the necessity of any further action of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-72)
Sec. 2-3-52. - License renewal.
All licensees hereunder shall be required to renew their licenses annually on forms prescribed by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-66)
Sec. 2-3-53. - Licenses nontransferable.
(a)
Licenses hereunder shall not be transferable except as otherwise provided herein. In case of the death of any person holding such a license, or any interest therein, the same may, in the discretion of the board of commissioners, be transferred to the administrator, executor or the lawful heirs of the deceased person.
(b)
Nothing in this section, however, shall prohibit one (1) or more of the partners in a partnership holding a license to withdraw from the partnership in favor of one (1) or more of the partners who were partners at the time of the issuance of the license. Such a withdrawal shall not, however, serve to bring any new ownership into the partnership.
(c)
Should a transfer of a location be approved, there shall be no pro rata return of any license fee. The new location shall be considered as a new license hereunder.
(d)
However, a licensee may take in partners or additional stockholders where it is determined that the additional capital furnished is to be used exclusively for additional inventory or expanding the facilities of the business or for building new facilities and where it appears that the licensee personally received directly none of the additional capital invested. Under this section an additional partner or new principal stockholder must be approved by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-71)
Sec. 2-3-54. - License authorizes sale for consumption on premises only; sale of beer and wine.
Licensees hereunder shall not permit the sale of alcoholic beverages by the bottle or package. Such persons holding such licenses shall have the right to sell wines, champagnes or malt beverages to the public by the bottle or can for consumption on the premises without the issuance of a separate retail license therefor. The licensees hereunder shall have the right to serve malt beverages for consumption on the premises during the same hours as are permitted hereunder for the serving of distilled spirits, wines or champagnes by the drink. Nothing herein is intended to repeal the hours of serving of malt beverages in any other type establishment not covered under licenses permitted by this article.
(Code 1979, § 7-2-70)
Sec. 2-3-55. - Suspension and revocation of license.
No license which has been issued or which may hereafter be issued by the county hereunder shall be suspended or revoked, except for due cause as hereinafter defined, and after a hearing and upon the prior three (3) day written notice to the holder of such license of the time, place and purpose of such hearing and a statement of the charge upon which such hearing shall be held. Due cause for the suspension or revocation of such license shall consist of the violation of any law or ordinance regulating such business, or violation of regulations made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulating such business, or for the violation of any state or federal law.
(Code 1979, §§ 7-2-64, 7-2-76)
State Law reference— Due process guidelines, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2.
Secs. 2-3-56—2-3-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - HANDLERS IDENTIFICATION CARD

Sec. 2-3-81. - Required generally.
(a)
All persons who are actively engaged in the sale or serving of alcoholic beverages in any establishment holding a Dougherty County alcoholic beverages license for consumption or retail sale are required to obtain and to carry on their person at all times while on the job an alcoholic beverage handlers identification card from county. Persons who make application for an alcoholic beverage license identification card in which they certify that they have been trained in, and made aware of, the penalties for the sale of alcoholic beverages to minors and for the sale of alcoholic beverages on Sundays are provided a grace period extending: (1) thirty (30) days from the date of application; or (2) to the date their application is denied, whichever is less.
(b)
One-day charitable license holders are exempt from the requirements of this Code section.
(Res. No. 04-042, § 2, 12-6-04)
Sec. 2-3-82. - Application.
(a)
Upon application and prior to issuance of an alcohol beverage handler's card, all applicants will be required to certify that they have been trained in, and made aware of, the penalties for the sale of alcohol beverages to minors and for the sale of alcohol beverages on Sundays.
(b)
Applicants shall make application in writing to the issuing agent, the Dougherty County Chief of Police and/or his designee, on application forms to be provided and approved by the issuing agent.
(Res. No. 04-042, § 2, 12-6-04)
Sec. 2-3-83. - Denial of application; appeal.
(a)
If any applicant is found to have a record of violations of any federal or state law or regulation respecting the manufacture, possession or sale of any alcoholic beverage or has been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or who shall have forfeited his bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such violations, the issuing agent shall deny the application and shall issue a letter to the employee and to the employer stating that the employee is ineligible for employment.
(b)
Within ten (10) days of such action, the applicant may appeal therefrom to the Board of Commissioners of Dougherty County, Georgia, which board may reverse the action of the issuing agent if it determines that because of the nature and age of the offenses, the applicant's record and conduct since the offenses were committed and other circumstances, it is not contrary to the public interest to issue the identification card.
(Res. No. 04-042, § 2, 12-6-04)
Sec. 2-3-84. - Issuance fee.
If none of the violations in section 2-3-83 are found, the issuing agent shall furnish the applicant an identification card with pertinent information thereon relating to the height, weight, hair color, eye color, date of birth, Social Security number, name of establishment employing the card holder and containing a photograph of the holder of such identification card. A fee in the amount of fifteen dollars ($15.00) shall be charged to cover the expense of processing the application and issuing the identification card.
(Res. No. 04-042, § 2, 12-6-04)
Sec. 2-3-85. - Obtaining under false pretenses prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person not to obtain an alcoholic beverage handlers identification card or to obtain same upon false information or by the concealment of information.
(Res. No. 04-042, § 2, 12-6-04)
Sec. 2-3-86. - Replacement; possession.
Identification cards may be replaced when lost or upon mutilation or when photograph or writing thereon is not clearly legible. This card must be in the possession of the person affected when engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic beverages.
(Res. No. 04-042, § 2, 12-6-04)
Sec. 2-3-87. - Expiration; renewal.
Alcoholic beverage handlers identification cards shall expire four (4) years from the date thereof, and the holder shall apply for renewal in the same manner as original applications are made. The fee for renewal shall be five dollars ($5.00) payable at the time of the filing of the application for renewal.
(Res. No. 04-042, § 2, 12-6-04)
Sec. 2-3-88. - Employers responsibility.
It shall be the duty and responsibility of every employer of employees covered under this article to see that all employees are carrying on their persons an alcoholic beverage handlers identification card at all times while on the job.
(Res. No. 04-042, § 2, 12-6-04)
Sec. 2-3-89. - Change of employment.
Whenever an identification card holder becomes employed by an establishment other than the one named in the card, the card holder shall notify the issuing agent of the change within fifteen (15) days after such change.
(Res. No. 04-042, § 2, 12-6-04)
Sec. 2-3-90. - Suspension; revocation.
Any person who, while employed on premises operating under an alcoholic beverage license, shall violate any federal, state or local statute, law or regulation by selling alcoholic beverages to a person not of lawful age to purchase the same, or by selling alcoholic beverages on Sunday, shall have his identification card suspended by the issuing agent for a period of two (2) weeks, and until a reinstatement fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) is paid. If another offense of either kind is committed by such person within twenty-four (24) months after payment of the reinstatement fee and reinstatement of the identification card, the identification card shall be revoked by the issuing agent. Any person whose alcoholic beverage handlers identification card is revoked or suspended for a period of time in excess of two (2) weeks may petition the Board of Commissioners of Dougherty County to review the decision, and the board may, in its discretion, either review or refuse to review the same. If the board elects to review the decision, it may affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the issuing agent. No identification card shall be suspended or revoked for selling to a person not of lawful age to purchase where the sale was induced by the furnishing of false identification by the purchaser.
(Res. No. 04-042, § 2, 12-6-04)
Sec. 2-3-91. - Upon sale to minors; on Sundays.
(a)
In the case of alcohol beverage violations involving selling to persons not of lawful age to purchase or selling on Sundays, all alcoholic beverage license holders who hold a valid and current certificate of certified license holder training from the county will be referred to the Georgia Department of Revenue, Alcohol and Tobacco Division (GDRATD) for prosecution. To qualify for renewal, a licensee must provide competent evidence of adjudication or other disposition of any violation previously referred to the GDRATD for prosecution.
(b)
Regardless of the kind of alcoholic beverage license held, and regardless of whether or not the owner was present on the premises at the time the violations occurred, whenever there occur four (4) violations of either or both kinds described in this section at the same location within a twenty-four-month period, revocation of the alcoholic beverage license shall be mandatory. For purposes of this section, each location of a business having more than one (1) location shall be considered independently of the other locations, and only that location at which the offense occurred shall be affected or held accountable.
(Res. No. 04-042, § 2, 12-6-04)
