DIVISION 7. - SEPARATIONS

Sec. 13-85. - Types of separation.
Separations of employees from positions in the classified service shall be designated as one (1) of the following and shall be accomplished in the manner indicated in this division: resignation, termination, layoff, disability, death and retirement.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-86. - County equipment.
At the time of separation and prior to final salary payment, all records, assets and other items of county property in the employee's custody shall be transferred to such employee's department head, and a statement indicating that all equipment has been returned shall be signed by the employee. The human resources director is authorized to withhold from the employee's final salary payment an amount equal to the full value of all equipment not accounted for by the employee.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-87. - Rights of employees.
Employees who separate shall receive payment for all earned salary and vacation leave accumulated as provided in this chapter, subject to deductions as outlined in section 13-86. No payment for accumulated sick leave shall be made upon separation, except as provided in section 13-125(f).
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-88. - Resignation.
To resign in good standing, an employee shall give notice, in writing, to such employee's department head at least two (2) calendar weeks prior to the effective date of such resignation. Failure to comply with this rule shall be entered on the service records of the employee. Less than ten (10) days notice shall be allowed on a case-by-case basis as approved by the department head and the director of human resources if the employee presents special conditions to them which warrant a shorter notice period, and, if a shorter notice period is approved, the employee's service record shall not reflect a negative connotation.
(Ord. of 3-7-95; Ord. of 4-16-02; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-89. - Termination.
(a)
An employee who, without valid reason, fails to report to work for three (3) consecutive working days without authorized leave shall be separated from the payroll and reported as terminated.
(b)
A department head may also terminate an employee for cause as outlined in section 13-101. The employee shall be furnished a notice of termination in writing which states the reasons for the termination and the employee's right to appeal the decision.
(c)
If the employee wishes to appeal the decision of the department head, such employee may do so by following the procedures outlined in section 13-113.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-90. - Layoff.
Employees may be laid off by the board of commissioners for fiscal reasons found to exist by the board which requires budgetary cutbacks. Job performance and length of service are the primary factors considered in determining which employees will be laid off. The following method will be used in determining layoffs:
(1)
The immediate past evaluation will be the first consideration.
(2)
Years of continuous employment with the county to be determined by the date of employment is the second consideration.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-91. - Disability.
Action for separation for disability may be initiated by the employee or the county, but in all cases the action shall be initiated within six (6) months from the date the employee can no longer perform the required duties or when continuance on the job becomes a danger to such employee or others. The action taken must be supported by medical evidence acceptable to the human resources director.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-92. - Death.
When a full-time employee on current active payroll dies while in the service of the county; the estate of the employee shall be paid the salary for the balance of the month in which the employee expires; or a minimum of two (2) weeks salary, whichever is greater, together with all sums due under sections 13-124(e) and 13-125(f) and all earned but unpaid salary.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-93. - Pregnancy.
Pregnancy shall not be a cause for termination. However, when in the opinion of and written instructions from the employee's physician, the employee is not able to perform her duties at an acceptable level of performance, then the human resources director may reclassify the employee to a class which pays a similar or higher salary. If the human resources director is unable to so reclassify the employee as set forth above, then the provisions of section 13-131 shall apply.
(Ord. of 4-18-97; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Secs. 13-94—13-99. - Reserved.
