ARTICLE V. - PAWNBROKERS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-145. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Employee means:
(1)
Any owner or pawnbroker who, in the performance of his duties or the management of the business affairs of a pawnshop, comes into contact with members of the public;
(2)
Any person working for an owner or pawnbroker; or
(3)
Any person who is employed on a part-time or full-time basis, either with or without remuneration, by a pawnshop.
Marshal's office means the City of Douglas Marshal's Office.
Pawn or pledge means a bailment of personal property as security for any debt or engagement, redeemable upon certain terms and with the power of sale on default.
Pawnbroker means any person engaged in whole or in part in the business of lending money on the security of pledged goods, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property on the condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property from persons or sources other than manufacturers or licensed dealers as part of or in conjunction with the business activities described in this article.
Pawnshop means any business wherein a substantial part thereof is to take or receive, by way of pledge, pawn, consignment or exchange, any goods, wares, merchandise, or any kind of personal property whatever, as security for the repayment of money lent thereon.
Pawnshop transaction means to take or receive any article of property from any customer, by pawning, pledging, trading, exchanging, purchasing, or other means.
Police department means the City of Douglas Police Department.
Third party administrator means any individual, business or corporation designated by the chief of police to administer the reporting requirements of this article.
(Ord. No. 03092020, § 22-176, 3-9-2020)
Sec. 10-146. - Penalty for violation.
Any person, firm, company, corporation or other entity who violates any provision of this article may be subject to arrest or summoned to appear in the municipal court and, upon conviction or other finding of guilt, be punished as defined in section 1-12.
(Ord. No. 03092020, § 22-177, 3-9-2020)
State Law reference— City courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-8-1; magistrate courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-1 et seq.; violation of city ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.; punishment for misdemeanors, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; city responsibility for sentencing and maintenance of inmates, O.C.G.A. § 42-5-51(a).
Sec. 10-147. - Responsibility for enforcement.
The police department and/or the marshal's office shall have the responsibility for the enforcement of this article. Sworn officers of the police department and/or the marshal's office and civilian employees designated by the chief of police or city marshal shall have the authority to inspect establishments licensed under this article during the hours in which the premises are open for business. These inspections shall be made for the purpose of verifying compliance with the requirements of this article and state law. This section is not intended to limit the authority of any other city officer to conduct inspections authorized by other provisions of this Code.
(Ord. No. 03092020, § 22-178, 3-9-2020)
Sec. 10-148. - Regulation as to employees and managers.
(a)
No person shall be employed by a pawnshop in any capacity until such person is found to be in compliance with the qualifications as described in this section and has paid a fee which shall be established by the board of commissioners. Upon complying with the requirements of this article, a permit card authorizing such person to be a pawnshop employee will be issued. Each employee and/or manager will be required to renew the permit card annually. The permit card and occupation tax certificate will expire annually, on the date established generally for expiration of the occupation tax certificate. All persons having any interest in the proposed business, including each owner, employee, manager, and pawnbroker, shall, while on the pawnshop premises, have in their possession and available for inspection such permit card. It shall be the duty of the pawnbroker to ensure compliance with the provisions of this section.
(b)
The following qualification shall apply to all employees and managers:
(1)
No permit shall be issued until such time as a signed application has been filed with the marshal's office or his designee and a search of the criminal record of the person completed. Such application shall include the applicant's name, fingerprints, date of birth, and prior arrest record; though an applicant's arrest record shall be used for investigative purposes only and shall not give rise to a presumption or inference of guilt. Applicant must also provide positive identification (only a valid official government issued pictured identification accepted, e.g., U.S. driver's license, passport, military card, or U.S. state identification card).
(2)
The city marshal or his designee shall conduct a complete and exhaustive search relative to any police record of the applicant.
(3)
In the event the applicant is qualified for employment in a pawnshop under this section and there is no record of a violation of this article, the city marshal or his designee shall issue a permit to the applicant, by mail, stating that the person is eligible for employment. If it is found that the person is not qualified for a permit and therefore ineligible for employment in a pawnshop, the city marshal or his designee shall notify the person, in writing, that they are not eligible for employment, the cause of such denial and their right to appeal.
(4)
No person who has been convicted or pled guilty or entered a plea of nolo contendere to any crime involving moral turpitude, illegal gambling, or any felonies, or any crime involving theft or fraudulent practices shall be issued a permit for the five years preceding the date of application. For purposes of this article, a conviction or plea of guilt or nolo contendere entered under the Georgia First Offender Act, O.C.G.A. § 42-8-60 et seq., shall be ignored; provided, however, that any such offense shall not be ignored where the defendant violated any term of probation imposed by the court granting first offender status or committed another crime and the sentencing court entered an adjudication of guilt as to the crime for which the defendant had previously been sentenced as a first offender.
(5)
No person shall be issued a permit if it is determined that the person falsified, concealed, or misrepresented any material fact by any device, trick, or scheme while making application to the marshal's office for a pawnshop permit under this section.
(6)
All permits issued through administrative error can be terminated and seized by the city marshal, chief of police or their designee.
(7)
Replacement of lost or damaged permits will be replaced for the replacement cost of the permit.
(8)
All permits issued hereunder remain the property of the city, and shall be produced for inspection upon the demand of any officer or designee of the marshal's office or police department.
(9)
No pawnshop owner shall allow any employee or manager to work on the premises unless the employee or manager has in their possession a current valid city permit. For new employees, a temporary permit issued by the city marshal's office may be used for a maximum of 30 days from the date of issue. Pawnshop owners and/or managers are required by this article to inspect and verify that each employee or manager has in their possession a valid current pawnshop permit. Issuance of this temporary permit shall allow the applicant to work in the position applied for only until such time as the required criminal history background investigation is completed. The temporary privilege conferred by issuance of this temporary permit shall expire immediately upon completion of such background investigation. If the background investigation indicates that the applicant does not meet the requirements for issuance of a pawnshop permit, the applicant may appeal the denial of the permit as provided in this article. However, issuance of this temporary permit and the temporary privilege granted thereby shall not be construed as conferring any right or privilege to the applicant to continue working in the position for which the permit sought during the pendency of the appeal from the denial of a permit under this article.
(10)
It shall be the duty of all persons holding a pawnshop occupation tax certificate to file with the city marshal's office and the chief of police or their designee, the name of the establishment, the occupation tax certificate number and a list of all employees, including their date of birth, home address and home telephone numbers, twice annually; during the month of June and again during the month of December.
(11)
If it is determined that any person issued a pawnshop permit has falsified, concealed, or misrepresented any material fact by any device, trick, or scheme in the application for the pawnshop permit, such permit shall be revoked or canceled.
(12)
City employees who are directly involved in the issuance of pawnshop permits or in the regulation of pawnshops shall not be eligible for a permit.
(Ord. No. 03092020, § 22-179, 3-9-2020)
Sec. 10-149. - Records and information to be maintained; display of pawnshop transaction number; identification; digital photographs; fingerprints; records storage.
(a)
Engaging in the business of pledging, trading, pawning, exchanging, or selling used or previously owned merchandise, furniture, machinery, appliances, utensils, firearms, gold, silver, coins, precious metals, jewelry, and precious stones is hereby declared to be affected with the public interest due to the opportunity it affords for the disposal of stolen property.
(b)
In the public interest and as set forth herein, all pawnbrokers shall maintain records documenting all pawnshop transactions.
(1)
All pawnbrokers shall maintain records documenting accurate descriptions of all property pledged, traded, pawned, exchanged, or sold to the pawnbroker. Such description shall include, to the extent possible, the manufacturer, model, serial number, style, material, kind, color, design, number of stones if jewelry, and all other identifying names, marks, and numbers. The pawnbroker shall assign a pawnshop transaction number documenting each transaction, and ensure each item received is tagged with the pawnshop transaction number.
(2)
The tag bearing the pawnshop transaction number must remain attached to the item until the property is disposed of by sale, trade, or other lawful means. This subsection does not apply to the purchase of property from licensed wholesale or distributor businesses for the purpose of retail sales; however, the pawnbroker shall be required to maintain all purchasing records for property exempted from this subsection.
(3)
The pawnbroker shall require all persons pledging, trading, pawning, exchanging, or selling property to show proper identification prior to conducting a pawnshop transaction. The term "proper identification" is defined as a government issued photo identification card such as a driver's license, military identification card, state identification card, or passport.
(4)
The pawnbroker shall also document the name, address, telephone number, race, sex, height, weight, driver's license number, and date of birth of the person pledging, trading, pawning, exchanging, or selling the property, along with the date and time of transaction and a photograph of the person pledging, trading, pawning, exchanging or selling the property. This documentation shall be made at the time of the transaction.
(5)
The pawnbroker shall photograph, with a digital camera or web camera, the person pledging, trading, pawning, exchanging, or selling the property. The photograph shall clearly show a frontal view of the subject's face along with the pawnbroker's ticket transaction number and a photograph of the item being pledged, traded, pawned, exchanged, or sold. Digital images shall be labeled and stored in such a manner that they are safe from corruption, readily identifiable, and readily available for review.
(6)
The pawnbroker shall store the above records, digital images, and fingerprints for a period of four years and make them available to law enforcement personnel upon request.
(7)
Every pawnshop shall email or report, through an approved method or database, a record of every transaction to the designated police department pawnshop administrator on a daily business day basis. If there are no transactions for a particular day, each pawnshop is required to email or report to the police department administrator advising of such.
(Ord. No. 03092020, § 22-180, 3-9-2020)
Sec. 10-150. - Daily report to police; required format.
Every pawnbroker shall make a daily report, in such form as may be prescribed by the chief of police, of all pawnshop transactions that occurred during 24 hours ending at 9:00 p.m. on the date of the report. Daily reports shall list all property pledged, traded, pawned, exchanged, or sold, the pawn transaction number for each transaction, and a description of the property, including, to the extent possible, the manufacturer, model, serial number, style, material, kind, color, design, number of stones if jewelry, and any other identifying names, marks, and numbers. The daily report shall also list the name, address, race, sex, height, weight, driver's license number, and date of birth of the person pledging, trading, pawning, exchanging, or selling the property along with the date and time of the transaction.
(Ord. No. 03092020, § 22-181, 3-9-2020)
Sec. 10-151. - Property not to be disposed of for 30 days after acquisition; location of property; police holds.
(a)
All property received through any pawnshop transaction shall be held for at least 30 days before disposing of same by sale, transfer, shipment, or otherwise, except when property is redeemed as per a pawn transaction contract.
(b)
All property pledged, traded, pawned, exchanged, or purchased shall be held and maintained by the pawnbroker on the premises of the pawnshop or, if impracticable, at such other location as may have been previously approved in writing by the chief of police or his designee. The chief of police shall not approve any off-premises storage facilities located outside the city.
(c)
The police department or the marshal's office has the authority to place property that is the subject of police investigation on "police hold." In that event, the city police department shall notify the pawnbroker of the need for police hold and identify all property subject to the police hold. Upon notification, it shall be the responsibility of the pawnbroker to maintain the subject property until such time as the property is released from police hold status or the property is confiscated as evidence.
(Ord. No. 03092020, § 22-182, 3-9-2020)
Sec. 10-152. - Dealing with minors.
It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker, his agents or employees, to receive through any pawnshop any property from minors. A minor, for the purpose of this section, is an individual 17 years of age or under.
(Ord. No. 03092020, § 22-183, 3-9-2020)
Secs. 10-153—10-168. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 10-169. - Annual permit required.
All persons, before beginning the business of operating a pawnshop or similar place, and persons pledging, trading, pawning, exchanging, or selling property shall first file an application with the city marshal's office for an annual permit to conduct such business. The issuance of such permit will be based on a criminal history background investigation of the applicant. The cost of the permit fee shall be established by the board of commissioners. This fee is imposed to cover investigative expenses and/or administrative costs associated with issuing an initial permit for all owners. In the event an owner has more than one pawnshop, then each location will be assessed the above fee. This fee is nonrefundable in the event an applicant, for any reason, is not issued a permit and/or an occupational tax certificate. Owners are required to renew the permit upon expiration thereof and shall be required to pay a renewal fee established by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 03092020, § 22-191, 3-9-2020)
Sec. 10-170. - Permit prerequisite to issuance of occupation tax certificate.
No occupational tax certificate, required by this article, shall be granted to any person until a permit required by this section has been issued or approved by the city police department.
(Ord. No. 03092020, § 22-192, 3-9-2020)
Sec. 10-171. - Application for permit.
The application for the annual permit required by this division shall state the street number and address at which the business is proposed to be operated. The application shall contain the full name, address, phone number, date of birth, and photograph of all persons, including pawnbrokers and employees, having any interest in the proposed business, plus any additional information, including fingerprints, deemed necessary by the licensing and revenue manager and/or the city police department.
(Ord. No. 03092020, § 22-193, 3-9-2020)
Sec. 10-172. - Denial, suspension or revocation; appeals.
(a)
A permit may be denied, suspended or revoked by the chief of police, city marshal or their designee where the pawnbroker or employee furnishes fraudulent or untruthful information in the application for a permit or fails to meet all qualifications set forth under the provisions of this article.
(b)
An occupation tax certificate, or other permit or license, issued by the city, may be denied, suspended, revoked or not renewed upon one or more of the following grounds:
(1)
The applicant or certificate holder is guilty of fraud in the operation of the business or occupation he practices or fraud or deceit in being licensed to practice in that area;
(2)
The applicant or certificate holder is engaged in the business or occupation under a false or assumed name, or is impersonating another practitioner of a like or different name;
(3)
The applicant or certificate holder is addicted to the habitual use of intoxicating liquors, narcotics, or stimulants to such an extent he is unable to perform his duties under the business or occupation;
(4)
The applicant or certificate holder is guilty of fraudulent, false, misleading, or deceptive advertising or practices;
(5)
The applicant or certificate, license or permit holder has been convicted of or has pled guilty or nolo contendere to any sexual offense as set out in O.C.G.A. title 16, ch. 6, or to any offense involving the lottery, illegal possession or sale of narcotics or alcoholic beverages or possession or receiving of stolen property, for a period of five years immediately prior to the filing of the application. If after having been granted a certificate, the applicant pleads guilty, is convicted of, or enters a plea of nolo contendere to any of the above offenses, said certificate shall be subject to suspension and/or revocation or ground for the same not to be renewed;
(6)
The original application or renewal thereof, contains materially false information, or the applicant has deliberately sought to falsify information contained therein;
(7)
The business or establishment is not authorized to operate within the city, or within the zoning district within which it is located, or is otherwise not in conformity with locational requirements of any of the city's ordinances;
(8)
The business or establishment is a threat or nuisance to public health, safety or welfare;
(9)
The business or establishment has been found by a court of law to have been operating unlawfully;
(10)
If any holder or any representative of the holder of a city occupational tax certificate, license or permit is engaged in unlawful activities which violate laws or regulations of the state, any city ordinances, appropriate county ordinances, applicable building codes, property maintenance codes, or zoning regulations;
(11)
Violation of any state law, statute, ordinance, rule, or regulation that governs the operation of the business in question;
(12)
Failure to pay any other taxes, fees, or delinquent bills owed to the city or county. Taxes will be considered delinquent after June 1, proceeding the due date of said taxes;
(13)
Any other violation of this article.
(c)
The city manager or his designee may deny, suspend, revoke or deny renewal of any occupational tax certificate, license or permit for violation of any part of this section.
(d)
When the occupational tax certificate, license or permit is denied, suspended, revoked or denied renewal the chief of police or city marshal shall notify the holder of the occupational tax certificate in writing and give official notice of such action. Notice shall be served to the owner or applicant of the occupational tax certificate, licensee, or permit holder. Such notice shall be deemed to be served properly if a copy thereof is delivered in person, or sent by certified and first-class mail, addressed to the last known mailing address of the applicant, owner or licensee. If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not delivered a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice.
(e)
The holder of an occupational tax certificate, license or permit, may, within ten days from receiving notice, file a written request to appeal the decision of the denial, suspension, revocation or denial of renewal of the occupational tax certificate, license, or permit. The city commission shall hold a hearing not less than 15 days or more than 30 days from the date the written request was received, if reasonably possible.
(f)
The commission shall make the determination on whether or not to uphold the denial, suspension, or revocation of the occupational tax certificate, license or permit.
(g)
At the time the occupational tax certificate, license or permit has been suspended or revoked, it shall be unlawful to continue business without a valid occupational tax certificate, license or permit. Violation of this subsection shall be punished as set forth in section 1-12. Each day upon which violations of the section exists, constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 03092020, § 22-194, 3-9-2020)
Secs. 10-173—10-188. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - STATE AND NATIONAL CRIMINAL BACKGROUNDING OF PERSONS ENGAGED IN PAWNSHOPS/PAWNBROKER

Sec. 10-189. - Regulate issuance, employment in operating pawnshop.
This division is enacted pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 35-3-35(a)(1.2), to regulate the issuance of licenses of/the employment of/those engaged in operating a pawnshop.
(Ord. No. 06222020(2), § 22-195, 6-22-2020)
Sec. 10-190. - Submitting fingerprints; appropriate fees.
An applicant, employee, or volunteer seeking to engage in a pawnshop shall submit a set of his fingerprints through the state applicant processing services, along with appropriate fees.
(Ord. No. 06222020(2), § 22-196, 6-22-2020)
Sec. 10-191. - Comparing fingerprints against criminal file.
Upon submitting of the fingerprints and the appropriate fees, the state applicant process service will transmit the fingerprints to the Georgia Bureau of Investigations (G.B.I.). The Georgia Bureau of Investigations will compare the subject's fingerprints against its criminal file and, if no disqualifying conduct is found therein and/or if necessary, submit the fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a comparison with nationwide records. The results of the Federal Bureau of Investigation check will be returned to the Georgia Bureau of Investigations, which will disseminate the state and national results to the marshals office.
(Ord. No. 06222020(2), § 22-197, 6-22-2020)
Sec. 10-192. - Rendering a fitness determination.
If an employer or organization is a private entity, the marshal's office shall render a fitness determination based upon the results of the criminal background check and communicate its fitness determination to such private employer or organization.
(Ord. No. 06222020(2), § 22-198, 6-22-2020)
Sec. 10-193. - Marshal's office to decide.
In rendering a fitness determination, the marshal's office will decide whether the record subject has been convicted of or is under pending indictment for:
(1)
A crime which bears upon his ability or fitness to serve in that capacity;
(2)
Any felony or a misdemeanor which involved force or threat of force, controlled substances, or was a sex-related offense; or
(3)
Enumerated disqualifiers.
(Ord. No. 06222020(2), § 22-199, 6-22-2020)
Sec. 10-194. - Request and receive copy of criminal history record.
(a)
A record subject may request and receive a copy of his criminal history record information from the marshal's office.
(b)
Should the record subject seek to amend or correct his record, he must contact the Georgia Bureau of Investigations for a Georgia state record or the Federal Bureau of Investigation for records from other jurisdictions maintained in its file.
(Ord. No. 06222020(2), § 22-200, 6-22-2020)
Secs. 10-195—10-210. - Reserved.
