Chapter 2-3.5 - ANIMALS AND FOWL
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 2-3.5-1—2-3.5-20. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Formerly, § 2-3.5-1 pertained to nuisance animals as derived from Res. No. 96-044, adopted Nov. 4, 1996. Such section was deleted as being superseded by the public nuisance animal provisions set forth in Art. II of this chapter.
ARTICLE II. - ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Res. No. 03-029, § 1, adopted Dec. 15, 2003, pertained to animal control regulations. Such resolution did not specifically amend the Code; hence, inclusion herein as §§ 2-3.5-21—2-3.5-3 was at the discretion of the editor. Sec. 2 of such resolution provided for the immediate enforcement of all sections of the animal control regulations pertaining to vicious and dangerous animals, and for enforcement of the balance of the animal control regulations to begin with the completion of the county's animal shelter.

Sec. 2-3.5-21. - Title.
These regulations shall be known as the Animal Control Regulations of Dougherty County.
(Ord. No. 03-029, § 1, 12-15-2003)
Sec. 2-3.5-22. - Definitions.
When used in these regulations, the following words, terms, and phrases, and their derivations shall have the meanings ascribed to them except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Animal means any vertebrate creature, domestic or wild, except human beings.
Animal control officer means an employee or agent of Dougherty County, Georgia, designated by its county administrator to administer and enforce the requirements contained within these regulations.
Animal shelter means any facility operated by either Dougherty County, or The Albany Humane Society, Inc., for the temporary care, confinement and detention of animals and for the humane killing and other disposition of animals. The term shall also include any private facility authorized by the county administrator to impound, confine, detain, care for or destroy any animal.
At large means that an animal is off the property of its owner and not under restraint. Exceptions are: Domestic cats; a dog while actually working livestock, locating or retrieving wild game in season for a licensed hunter, assisting law enforcement officers or while actually being trained for any of these specifically enumerated pursuits; and an animal that is within the confines of the real property that the owner had permission to use or is within a motor vehicle (excluding an unleashed animal in an open bed of a truck).
Cat means any animal of the feline species.
County means the unincorporated area of Dougherty County, Georgia.
Guard or attack dog means a dog trained to attack on command or to protect persons or property, and who will cease to attack upon command.
Impoundment means the taking into custody of an animal by any police officer, animal control officer, or any authorized representative thereof.
Leash or lead means a thong, cord, rope, chain or similar tether which holds an animal in restraint and which is not more than six (6) feet in length. A leash or lead longer than six (6) feet in length or a retractable lead of variable length may be used when exercising or training an animal provided that the use of the leash or lead does not allow the animal to interfere with public access to or use of public areas.
Owner means any person having temporary or permanent custody of, sheltering or having charge of, harboring, exercising control over, or having property rights to, any animal covered by these regulations. An animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three (3) or more consecutive days.
Public nuisance animal means any animal that unreasonably annoys humans, endangers the life or health of persons or other animals, or substantially interferes with the rights of citizens other than their owners, to enjoyment of life or property. The term "public nuisance animal" shall include, but not be limited to:
(1)
Any animal that is at large;
(2)
Any animal in any section of publicly owned property unless the animal is controlled by a leash or lead;
(3)
Any animal that damages, soils, defiles or defecates on any property other than that of its owner;
(4)
Any animal that makes disturbing noises, including but not limited to, continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances causing unreasonable annoyance, disturbance, or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
(5)
Any animal that causes fouling of the air by noxious or offensive odors and thereby creates unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
(6)
Any animal in heat that is not humanely confined so as to prevent attraction or contact with other animals;
(7)
Any animal, whether or not on the property of its owner, that without provocation, molests, attacks, or otherwise interferes with the freedom of movement of persons on a public right-of-way;
(8)
Any animal that chases motor vehicles, bicycles or individuals in a public right-of-way;
(9)
Any animal that attacks domestic animals;
(10)
Any animal that causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings where the animal is kept or harbored;
(11)
Any animal that is offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare by virtue either of the number of animals maintained at a single location or the inadequacy of the facilities; and
(12)
Any animal not in compliance with either Georgia state law or rules and regulations promulgated by the Dougherty County Board of Health relative to rabies control.
Sanitary means a condition of good order and cleanliness necessary to minimize the possibility of disease transmission.
Under restraint means that an animal is either secured by a leash or lead and under the control of a person physically capable of restraining the animal or beside a competent person and is obedient to that person's commands.
Vicious or dangerous animal means any animal that attacks, bites, or physically injures human beings, domestic animals, or livestock without adequate provocation, or which, because of temperament or training, has a known propensity to attack, bite, or physically injure human beings, domestic animals, or livestock. Any animal that without provocation has bitten or attacked a human being or other animal shall be prima facie presumed vicious or dangerous.
(Ord. No. 03-029, § 2, 12-15-2003)
Sec. 2-3.5-23. - Nuisances.
No owner shall keep any animal on any property located within the county when keeping of such animal constitutes a public nuisance animal.
(Ord. No. 03-029, § 3, 12-15-2003)
Sec. 2-3.5-24. - Caring for animals.
(a)
No owner shall engage in any act or omission whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death of an animal is caused or permitted, including failure to provide proper drink, air, space, shelter or protection from the elements, a sanitary and safe living environment, veterinary care or nutritious food in siphoned quantity. In the case of activities where physical pain is necessarily caused, such as medical and scientific research, food processing, customary and normal veterinary and agricultural husbandry practices, pest elimination, and animal training and hunting, no owner or any other person shall fail to employ the most humane methods reasonably available.
(b)
No owner of any animal shall willfully abandon such animal on any street, road, highway or public place, or on private property when not in the care of another person.
(c)
No owner of any animal shall fail to comply with either Georgia state law or rules and regulations promulgated by the Dougherty County Board of Health relative to rabies control.
(Ord. No. 03-029, § 4, 12-15-2003)
Sec. 2-3.5-25. - Sanitation.
(a)
No owner of any animal shall cause or allow such animal to soil, defile or defecate on any public property or upon any street, sidewalk, public way, play area, or upon private property other than that of the owner, unless such owner immediately removes and disposes of all feces deposited by such animal by the following methods:
(1)
Collection of the feces by appropriate implement and placement in a paper or plastic bag or other container; and
(2)
Removal of such bag or container to the property of the animal owner and disposition thereafter in a manner as otherwise may be permitted by law.
(b)
No owner of any animal shall permit any waste matter from the animal to collect and remain on the property of the owner or on the property of others so as to cause or create an unhealthy, unsanitary, dangerous or offensive living condition on the owner's property or to abutting property of others.
(c)
No owner of any animal shall cause unsanitary dangerous or offensive conditions by virtue of the size or number of animals maintained at a single location or due to the inadequacy of the facilities.
(Ord. No. 03-029, § 5, 12-15-2003)
Sec. 2-3.5-26. - Cruelty to animals.
(a)
No owner or any other person shall willfully or maliciously strike, beat, abuse, or intentionally run down with a vehicle any animal, or otherwise engage in any act that causes either injury or death to such animal; except that reasonable force may be used to drive away vicious or dangerous animals.
(b)
No owner or any other person shall administer poison to any animal or knowingly leave any poisonous substance of any kind or ground glass in any place with the intent to injure any animal. The provisions of this section are not applicable to licensed exterminators using poisons as part of a pest control program or the use of commercial insecticides and rodent baits used to control insects and wild rodents.
(Ord. No. 03-029, § 6, 12-15-2003)
Sec. 2-3.5-27. - Restraint and confinement, generally.
(a)
No owner of any animal shall allow such animal to be at large.
(b)
No owner of any animal shall fail to exercise proper care and control of such animal to prevent the same from becoming a public nuisance animal.
(c)
Every owner of a guard or attack dog shall keep such dog confined in a building, compartment or other enclosure. Any such enclosure shall be completely surrounded by a fence at least six (6) feet in height and shall be topped with an anti-climbing device constructed of angle metal braces with at least three (3) strands of equally separated barbed wire stretched between them. All anti-climbing devices shall extend inward at an angle of not less than forty-five (45) degrees nor more than ninety (90) degrees when measured from the perpendicular. The areas of confinement shall all have gates and entrances thereto securely closed and locked, and all fences properly maintained and escape proof. The premises on which a guard or attack dog is located must be posted with a clearly visible sign warning that there is such a dog on the property. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to dogs owned or controlled by government law enforcement agencies.
(d)
Every animal in heat shall be confined by its owner in a building or other enclosure in such a manner that the animal cannot come into contact with another animal except for planned breeding purposes as allowed by either Georgia state law or rules and regulations promulgated by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(e)
Every vicious or dangerous animal shall be confined by its owner or authorized agent of its owner within a building or secure enclosure and, whenever off the premises of its owner, shall be securely muzzled and restrained with a chain having a minimum tensile strength of three hundred (300) pounds and not more than three (3) feet in length, or caged. Every person harboring a vicious or dangerous animal is charged with an affirmative duty to confine the animal in such a way that children do not have access to such animal. The premises on which the vicious or dangerous animal is located must be posted with a clearly visible sign warning that there is a vicious or dangerous animal on the property.
(Ord. No. 03-029, § 7, 12-15-2003)
Sec. 2-3.5-28. - Return of animal to owner.
If the name of the owner of an animal found at large is known or can be obtained with reasonable dispatch, the animal control officer shall return the animal to the residential address of the owner. If there is no one present, the animal control officer shall leave written notice of whom the owner must contact to reclaim the animal. The officer shall then remove the animal to an animal shelter.
(Ord. No. 03-029, § 8, 12-15-2003)
Sec. 2-3.5-29. - Impoundment.
In addition to any other remedies provided in these regulations, an animal control officer or a police officer may impound and confine to an animal shelter any of the following animals:
(1)
Any animal at large;
(2)
Any animal constituting a public nuisance or considered a danger to the public;
(3)
Any vicious or dangerous animal;
(4)
Any animal that is in violation of any quarantine or confinement order of the chief health officer of the county;
(5)
Any unattended animal that is ill, injured or otherwise in need of care;
(6)
Any animal that is reasonably believed to have been abused or neglected;
(7)
Any animal that is reasonably suspected of having rabies;
(8)
Any animal that is charged with being potentially dangerous, or dangerous where an animal control officer or the county administrator determines that there is a threat to public health and safety;
(9)
Any animal that a court of competent jurisdiction has ordered impounded or destroyed; or
(10)
Any animal that is considered unattended or abandoned, as in situations where the owner is deceased, has been arrested or evicted from his regular place of residence.
(Ord. No. 03-029, § 9, 12-15-2003)
Sec. 2-3.5-30. - Notice to owner and redemption.
(a)
Upon impoundment of an animal, the animal control officer shall immediately attempt to notify the owner either by telephone or certified mail. If the owner is unknown, the animal control officer shall post written notice at the animal shelter and in any other conspicuous place in the county, as determined by the county administrator, describing the animal and the time and place of taking. Any notice to the owner shall also include the location of the animal shelter where the animal is confined, hours during which the animal can be reclaimed, and fees to be charged to the owner. The owner shall also be advised that the failure to claim the animal within a specified period of time shall result in the disposition of the animal.
(b)
Animal control officers or other designees of the county administrator shall be enforcement officials for these regulations. These officials, along with police officers, shall have the authority to act on behalf of the county in investigating complaints, impounding and destroying animals, issuing citations, and taking other lawful actions as required to enforce the provisions of these regulations. It shall be a violation of these regulations to interfere with any animal control officer or other enforcement official in the performance of his duties.
(Ord. No. 03-029, § 10, 12-15-2003)
Sec. 2-3.5-31. - Violations and penalties.
(a)
It shall be a violation of these regulations to:
(1)
Fail to comply with any provision; or
(2)
Fail to comply with any lawful order of an animal control officer or police officer unless such order is lawfully stayed or reversed.
(b)
Any person violating any provision of these regulations, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). If a violation continues, each day's violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(c)
In addition to any other remedy available, these regulations may be enforced in the Magistrate Court of Dougherty County, Georgia as provided in O.C.G.A. section 15-10-60 through section 15-10-66, as amended.
(Ord. No. 03-029, § 11, 12-15-2003)
