Chapter 28 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to construct and operate parks, swimming pools, golf courses, recreation grounds and buildings used for sports, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; establishment of recreation systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.

Sec. 28-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Electric assisted bicycle means a device with two or three wheels which has a saddle and fully operative pedals for human propulsion and also has an electric motor having a power output of not more than 750 watts.
Golf car or golf cart means any motorized vehicle designed for the purpose and exclusive use of conveying one or more persons and equipment to play the game of golf in an area designated as a golf course. For such a vehicle to be considered a golf car or golf cart, its average speed shall be less than 15 miles per hour (24 kilometers per hour) on a level road surface with a 0.5 percent grade (0.3 degree) comprising a straight course composed of a concrete or asphalt surface that is dry and free from loose material or surface contamination with a minimum coefficient of friction of 0.8 between tire and surface.
Gross weight means the weight of a vehicle without load plus the weight of any load thereon.
Low-speed vehicle means any four-wheeled electric vehicle whose top speed attainable in one mile is greater than 20 miles per hour but not greater than 25 miles per hour on a paved level surface and which is manufactured in compliance with those federal motor vehicle safety standards for low-speed vehicles set forth in 49 CFR 571.500.
Moped means a motor driven cycle equipped with two or three wheels, with or without foot pedals to permit muscular propulsion, and an independent power source providing a maximum of two brake horsepower. If a combustion engine is used, the maximum piston or rotor displacement shall be 3.05 cubic inches (50 cubic centimeters) regardless of the number of chambers in such power source. The power source shall be capable of propelling the vehicle, unassisted, at a speed not to exceed 30 miles per hour (48.28 kilometers per hour) on level road surface and shall be equipped with a power drive system that functions directly or automatically only, not requiring clutching or shifting by the operator after the drive system is engaged.
Motor driven cycle means every motorcycle, with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower, and every moped.
Motor vehicle means every vehicle which is self-propelled other than an electric assisted bicycle or an electric personal assistive mobility device (EPAMD).
Motorcycle means every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground, but excluding a tractor, all-terrain vehicle, and moped.
Multipurpose off-highway vehicle means any motorized vehicle having features specifically intended for utility use and having the following characteristics:
(1)
Has the capability to transport persons or cargo or both;
(2)
Operates between 25 miles per hour (40.2 kilometers per hour) and 50 miles per hour (80.4 kilometers per hour);
(3)
Has an overall width of 80 inches (2,030 millimeters) or less, exclusive of accessories or attachments;
(4)
Is designed to travel on four or more wheels;
(5)
Uses a steering wheel for steering control;
(6)
Contains a non straddle seat;
(7)
Has a gross vehicle weight rating of less than 4,000 pounds (1,814 kilograms); and
(8)
Has a minimum cargo capacity of 350 pounds (159 kilograms).
Personal transportation vehicle or PTV.
(1)
The term "personal transportation vehicle" or "PTV" means:
a.
Any motor vehicle having no fewer than three wheels and an unladen weight of 1,300 pounds or less and which cannot operate at more than 20 miles per hour if such vehicle was authorized to operate on local roads by a local authority prior to January 1, 2012. Such vehicles may also be referred to as "motorized carts" in such local ordinances; and
b.
Any motor vehicle:
1.
With a minimum of four wheels;
2.
Capable of a maximum level ground speed of less than 20 miles per hour;
3.
With a maximum gross vehicle unladen or empty weight of 1,375 pounds; and
4.
Capable of transporting not more than eight persons.
(2)
The term "personal transportation vehicle" or "PTV" does not include mobility aids, including electric personal assistive mobility devices, power wheelchairs, and scooters, that can be used indoors and outdoors for the express purpose of enabling mobility for a person with a disability. The term "personal transportation vehicle" or "PTV" also does not include any all-terrain vehicle or multipurpose off-highway vehicle.
Other recreational facilities means any publicly-owned facilities, buildings or structures, including, but not limited to, recreational centers, buildings owned or leased/rented and used under the supervision of the parks and recreation director of the city.
Park means any tract of publicly-owned land on which is located any facilities for use by the public engaged in passive recreation, including, but not limited to, tables, benches, chairs, outdoor cooking facilities, shelters, bandstands and the like.
Playground means any tract of publicly-owned land on which is located any facilities for use by the public engaged in active recreation, including, but not limited to, baseball, football, soccer, softball, volleyball, swimming, handball, and playground equipment, including, but not limited to, swings, slides, teeters, sandboxes, climbing devices and the like.
(Code 1978, § 16-51; Code 1993, pt. II, § 66-1)
Sec. 28-2. - Hours of operation.
(a)
Parks and playgrounds. The parks and playgrounds of the city shall be open to the public at sunrise each morning and close at sunset each evening, unless prior approval is received from parks and recreation staff.
(b)
Other recreational facilities. The hours of operation of other recreational facilities owned and/or operated by the city shall have the hours of operation as determined by the parks and recreation commission.
(Code 1978, § 16-52; Code 1993, pt. II, § 66-2; Ord. No. 05262015, 6-8-2015; Ord. No. 06082015 , 6-8-2015)
Sec. 28-3. - Permit required for use beyond stipulated hours.
Any person, group of persons, firm or corporation desiring use of parks, playgrounds and/or other recreational facilities of the city beyond the hours of use stipulated in this chapter must first obtain a written permit signed by the parks and recreation director or his designee. The permit shall indicate the location, facilities and hours approved for use by the applicant.
(Code 1978, § 16-53; Code 1993, pt. II, § 66-3)
Sec. 28-4. - Exclusive use of facilities; deposit required.
When an applicant desires to use recreational facilities, (i.e., buildings, shelters, etc.), exclusively, the applicant shall first obtain a permit for such use and must make a cleanup deposit in an amount set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. If, upon inspection by representatives of the parks and recreation department, it is found the facility has been left in a clean and orderly fashion, the deposit shall be refunded to the applicant. If the facility so used by the applicant is found in need of cleanup by the parks and recreation department, the deposit shall be retained by the parks and recreation department and shall be credited to that department toward the expenses of cleanup.
(Code 1978, § 16-54; Code 1993, pt. II, § 66-4)
Sec. 28-5. - Damage to city property.
When it is determined that the granting of a permit for use of city parks, playgrounds and/or other recreational facilities has resulted in damage to the city property so permitted, the person obtaining the permit shall be responsible to the city for the payment of all costs incurred by the city for repair to such property.
(Code 1978, § 16-55; Code 1993, pt. II, § 66-5)
Sec. 28-6. - Littering prohibited.
No person using, passing through or visiting the buildings, parks or playgrounds shall deposit any wastepaper, trash, wrappers, bottles, cans, garbage or other material on the grounds of any park, playground or other recreational facilities of the city outside of receptacles provided for receipt of such material.
(Code 1978, § 16-56; Code 1993, pt. II, § 66-6)
Sec. 28-7. - Loud or unusual noise, music, etc., not permitted.
Unless approved by the recreation commission, no person shall generate or allow to be generated any loud or boisterous or unusual noise or music within the park that shall disturb the residents of the city in the vicinity of any of the parks, playgrounds or other recreational facilities. The use of loudspeakers shall not be permitted in such parks, playgrounds or other recreational facilities of the city.
(Code 1978, § 16-57; Code 1993, pt. II, § 66-7)
Sec. 28-8. - Motorized vehicles.
(a)
Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, place and/or drive any motor vehicle, motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle, low-speed vehicle, personal transportation vehicle, electric assisted bicycle or motorized bicycle, motor driven cycle, moped/scooter, motorized cart or golf cart on and/or within the confines of any city park or walking trail located within the corporate limits of the city except in those areas designated by the department of parks and recreation authorizing the presence of motorized vehicles within the confines of parks located within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
Restitution. In addition, in the event of any conviction of any person for violation of this section, the sentencing court shall have the right to require restitution in full to the city for any and all damages to property.
(c)
This section shall not apply to any emergency vehicles, law enforcement vehicles or vehicles owned by the city.
(Code 1978, § 22-17; Code 1993, pt. II, § 66-8)
Sec. 28-9. - Penalty.
The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1978, § 16-58; Code 1993, pt. II, § 66-9)
