ARTICLE III. - LEGISLATION[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Charter reference— City legislation, § 2.11.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-76. - Introduction of resolutions and ordinances.
(a)
All ordinances introduced at any meeting of the mayor and council shall be in writing. An ordinance, or a synopsis of the pertinent provisions of the ordinance, shall be read to the mayor and council by the city clerk, the city attorney or the councilmember introducing the ordinance, before the same shall be adopted and declared to be in force and effect.
(b)
All resolutions shall not be required to be in writing when introduced at any meeting of the mayor and council. However, the same, if passed and adopted, shall be entered upon the minutes of the meeting at which they were adopted.
(Code 1977, § 2-41)
Sec. 2-77. - Criminal background investigations.
(a)
Whenever a criminal background investigation is required by any ordinance of the City Code or the Personnel Policies and Procedures Ordinance for an applicant for a permit or license or for employment, this process shall include but not be limited to a search of the database for the Georgia Crime Information Center (GCIC) and that for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to obtain criminal history record information (CHRI). The applicant shall supply to the city all necessary information and consents for such investigations and complete such forms as the city may require.
(b)
GCIC and FBI records investigations shall be conducted in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 35-3-35(a)(1.2), and the applicant shall submit to fingerprinting. Information obtained and handled for any purposes pursuant to this subsection shall comply with all Georgia laws and the Federal Privacy Act. No information given as part of the request for a criminal history and no record obtained pursuant to this section may be entered on any database. No information given or obtained pursuant to this section shall be subject to the provisions of the Georgia Open Records Act.
(c)
The applicant shall provide his fingerprints in the manner directed by the city.
(d)
The applicant shall bear the cost of the charge by the GBI and the FBI for the CHRI history at their latest rate, and shall arrange for fingerprinting through the Georgia Applicant Processing Service (GAPS).
(e)
Upon receipt of the fingerprints, the CHRI's and the appropriate fees, the city will transmit said CHRI reports to the chief of police and the city's finance director, who shall render a "fitness determination," concerning whether the record applicant has been convicted or is under pending indictment for specified disqualifiers.
(f)
A person who has consented to the city for a CHRI based on fingerprinting record may request and receive a copy of the criminal history record report from the city at no additional charge. Should the person seek to amend or correct the record, he or she shall be responsible for contacting the GCIC as to Georgia records or the FBI concerning records from other jurisdictions maintained in its file.
(Ord. No. O-2019-10 , § 1, 3-4-19)
Secs. 2-78—2-95. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - AMENDMENTS TO CODE

Sec. 2-96. - Effect.
Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the city council to make the same a part hereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated in this Code so that reference to "The Code of the City of Douglasville, Georgia," shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
(Code 1977, § 2-48)
Sec. 2-97. - Manner.
All ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code, or in the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the city council.
(Code 1977, § 2-49)
Sec. 2-98. - Language.
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code should be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section _____ of The Code of the City of Douglasville is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(Code 1977, § 2-50)
Sec. 2-99. - New material.
(a)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That The Code of the City of Douglasville is hereby amended by adding a section (or article, chapter or other designation as the case may be), to be numbered _____, which reads as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(b)
In lieu of subsection (a) of this section, when the city council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature embracing a subject not previously existing in the Code, which the council desires to incorporate into the Code, a provision in substantially the following language may be made part of such ordinance:
"It is the intention of the city council, and it is hereby ordained, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made part of The Code of the City of Douglasville, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
(Code 1977, § 2-51)
Sec. 2-100. - Repeal.
All sections, articles, chapters or other provisions of this Code desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section number, article number, chapter or other number, as the case may be.
(Code 1977, § 2-52)
Sec. 2-101. - Subject to general penalty.
In case of the amendment by the city council of any section of this Code for which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in section 1-3 of this Code shall apply to the section as amended; or in case such amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the general penalty is provided in another section in the same chapter, the penalty so provided in such other section shall be held to relate to the section so amended, unless such penalty is specifically repealed therein.
(Code 1977, § 2-53)
Sec. 2-102. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the city council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code, and shall also include all amendments to the charter during the period. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier, meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement, may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but, in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 1977, § 2-54)
Secs. 2-103—2-130. - Reserved.
