DIVISION 4. - RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION

Sec. 13-50. - Employment opportunities.
The recruitment, selection, appointment and promotion of employees shall be in such a manner as to promote equal employment for all persons without regard to race, age, color, creed, religion, ancestry, sex, national origin, physical handicap or political affiliation.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-51. - Vacancy positions.
(a)
Department heads shall be responsible for notifying the human resources director of positions that are or soon shall be vacant. The notification shall include the class title and salary range.
(b)
As far as practicable, but giving consideration to the qualifications of an applicant for any position, vacancies shall be filled by promotion of employees in the county.
(c)
Whenever a vacancy occurs within a department, the department head will first attempt to fill the vacancy by promotion from within the department (see subsection 13-32(a)(1), subsection 13-40), or re-organization, or a combination of both. After this action has occurred, any position left vacant will be filled according to section 13-52, recruitment for vacant positions.
(Ord. of 4-15-08; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-52. - Recruitment for vacant positions.
(a)
All vacancies for full-time positions, with the exception of entry level positions for each department, and departmental promotions (see subsection 13-51(c) above), shall be advertised in-house for a period not to exceed three (3) days. After the three-day period, if the positions remain unfilled, the human resources director may cause the vacancy to be publicized by a notice of such vacancy in the legal organ of the county or on the county web site, such announcement to remain active until such time as the position is filled or officially announced as closed. If the web site announcement fails to produce qualified and/or acceptable candidates, the director may advertise the employment opening using any other medium which is appropriate. The announcements shall specify the title, the minimum salary of the vacant position, any minimum qualification requirements, the manner of taking applications, and other information deemed pertinent by the human resources director.
(b)
Every reasonable effort shall be made to publicize vacancies so that all interested persons are informed of the position and so that all qualified persons are attracted to compete.
(c)
Applications will be accepted until the position is filled, or the deadline for applications is reached.
(Ord. of 3-7-95; Res. of 4-2-96; Ord. of 4-18-97; Amd. of 11-7-06; Ord. of 4-15-08; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-53. - Application forms.
Applications shall be made on county application forms provided by the human resources department. Such applications shall be signed by the person applying.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-54. - Procedures.
The following procedures shall be used in filling vacant positions:
(1)
Applications must be submitted to the human resources director at the personnel department within the time limitations noted in the advertisements for the position.
(2)
The human resources director shall make a preliminary determination as to the qualification of the applicant for the position, and the human resources director may, in this connection, administer preliminary tests to determine if the applicant is qualified to apply. All such testing shall be administered by the human resources director or his delegated representative and shall be uniform as to all applicants for the same position.
(3)
The name of each applicant found to be qualified by the human resources director shall be submitted to the appropriate department head for an interview and further testing as deemed appropriate by the department head. The elected official over each department head, in conjunction with each such department head (if the elected official is not also serving as the department head) shall determine the method of examination of applicants for each position. All such tests and examinations shall be uniform as to all applicants for the same position. The tests conducted by department heads may be written, oral, demonstration of skill and evaluation of experience and education, or a combination of these, which shall fairly appraise and determine the merit, qualifications, fitness and ability of applicants. Such tests shall relate to the duties and responsibilities of the position for which the applicant is being examined.
(4)
After completing the application and testing procedure, the appropriate department head shall select and notify the applicant to be hired; a department director/manager applicant shall be notified by the board of commissioners, or their designee.
(5)
As a condition of obtaining employment, each applicant selected for employment shall be required first to take, at county expense, and successfully complete, a medical examination, which shall include a drug screening for substance abuse, by a physician selected by the county. Failure to successfully take and pass the medical examination shall result in the disqualification of the applicant for employment.
(6)
A psychological or psychiatric examination may likewise be required prior to employment or during a probationary period if the department head is of the opinion that such examination is required. The expense of such examination shall be paid by the county.
(Ord. of 8-7-90; Ord. of 3-7-95; Ord. of 4-18-97; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-55. - Emergency appointments.
When in the opinion of the human resources director an emergency involving the serious impairment of the public business makes it impossible to fill a position in the county by the procedure established in section 13-52, the department head, subject to the approval of the elected official, may appoint any qualified person to such position in order to prevent stoppage of public business, financial loss or serious inconvenience to the public. Any such person shall be employed only during such emergency and for a period not to exceed thirty-one (31) days.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-56. - Employment of relatives.
It is the policy of the county not to employ in the same department of the county government any member of an employee's immediate family. For purposes of definition, "immediate family" includes husband, wife, father, mother, daughter, son, brother, sister, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grand-mother, grandfather, stepfather, stepmother and stepchildren, spouses' grandparents, grandchildren, formal legal guardian (with proof).
The term "department" includes the permit and inspection department, road department, fire and EMS department, planning and zoning department, sheriff's department, jail department, library department, appraisal department, accounting and purchasing department, magistrates department, engineering department, extension service department, landfill department, development department, printing department, district attorney department, clerk of superior court department, vehicle maintenance department, board of commissioners department, safety department, human resources department, custodial department, probate court department, tax commissioner's department, parks and recreation department, voters registration department, data processing department and all other departments recognized in the organizational structure of the county.
If two (2) employees marry while working in the same department, the party with the least seniority in the department must transfer to another department if both are to continue in the employment of the county.
This section shall not apply to any county employee who is employed as of the date of the enactment of this provision.
Notwithstanding all of the forgoing terms and conditions, a department head may authorize related persons to work provided they work under the following specified conditions:
(1)
No employee shall work directly for another relative.
(2)
No employee shall be under the supervision of a relative.
(3)
Persons who are related as heretofore described shall not work together in the same shift, unless requirements of the department are such that the department head feels that it is absolutely necessary for the protection of the county and citizens of the county, in which case those relatives who are certified to be required to work on the same shift shall not be working together in the same vehicle, office, or on the same project or work.
(Ord. of 5-16-89; Ord. of 3-7-00; Ord. of 6-15-10, § 2; Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-57. - Number of positions with the county.
No employee shall have more than one (1) position with the county.
(Ord. of 6-21-11)
Sec. 13-58. - Employee rehire policy.
(a)
If an employee voluntarily resigns their position with the county (see section 13-88, resignations) or is laid off from the county (see section 13-90, lay offs), and has correctly completed all necessary exit interview information with his/her supervisor or department head, the county may consider this previous employee eligible for rehire with all benefits reinstated if the subject employee reapplies for employment with the county within no more than sixty (60) days from the date last worked with the county. No benefits will be accrued during the period of unemployment with the county. The only authorized benefit not immediately restored is insurance which takes effect on the first day of the next month after rehire.
(b)
This rehire provision is available to each employee covered under the merit system for one (1) time only. Employees who resign or are laid off from their county employment and remain unemployed with the county for sixty-one (61) or more days will not be eligible for reinstatement of previous benefits if the employee is again employed by the county.
(Ord. of 3-31-93; Ord. of 4-18-97; Ord. of 6-15-10, § 6; Ord. of 6-21-11; Ord. of 4-2-13)
Secs. 13-59—13-64. - Reserved.
