ARTICLE II. - OCCUPATION TAX[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Occupation tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 et seq.

Sec. 10-21. - Occupation tax required for business dealings in the city.
For the year 1995 and succeeding years thereafter, each person engaged in any business, trade, profession, or occupation in the city, whether with a location in the city or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for said business, trade, profession, or occupation; which tax and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the city. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the city, such business tax registration shall be shown to the revenue collection officer or this officer's deputies or to any police officer of said city, upon request.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-1; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-22. - Construction of terms; definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of an occupation tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Dominant line means the type of business, within a multiple-line business, that the greatest amount of income is derived from.
Employee means:
(1)
An individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds FICA, federal income tax, or state income tax from such individual's compensation or whose employer issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form I.R.S. W-2 but not a form I.R.S. 1099.
(2)
An individual who performs work under the direction and supervision of one business or practitioner in accordance with the terms of a contract or agreement with another business which recruits such individual is an employee of the business or practitioner which issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form I.R.S. W-2.
Gross receipts.
(1)
The term "gross receipts" means total revenue of the business or practitioner for the period, including, without being limited to, the following:
a.
Total income without deduction for the cost of goods sold or expenses incurred;
b.
Gain from trading in stocks, bonds, capital assets, or instruments of indebtedness;
c.
Proceeds from commissions on the sale of property, goods, or services;
d.
Proceeds from fees charged for services rendered; and
e.
Proceeds from rent, interest, royalty, or dividend income.
(2)
The term "gross receipts" shall not include the following:
a.
Sales, use, or excise taxes;
b.
Sales returns, allowances, and discounts;
c.
Interorganizational sales or transfers between or among the units of a parent-subsidiary controlled group of corporations, as defined by 26 USC 1563(a)(1), between or among the units of a brother-sister controlled group of corporations, as defined by 26 USC 1563(a)(2), between or among a parent corporation, wholly owned subsidiaries of such parent corporation, and any corporation in which such parent corporation or one or more of its wholly owned subsidiaries owns stock possessing at least 30 percent of the total value of shares of all classes of stock of such partially owned corporation, or between or among wholly owned partnerships or other wholly owned entities;
d.
Payments made to a subcontractor or an independent agent for services which contributed to the gross receipts in issue;
e.
Governmental and foundation grants, charitable contributions, or the interest income derived from such funds, received by a nonprofit organization which employs salaried practitioners otherwise covered by this chapter, if such funds constitute 80 percent or more of the organization's receipts; and
f.
Proceeds from sales of goods or services which are delivered to or received by customers who are outside the state at the time of delivery or receipt.
Location or office includes any structure or vehicle where a business, profession, or occupation is conducted, but shall not include a temporary or construction work site which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession or occupation which has a location or office. The renter's or lessee's location which is the site of personal property which is rented or leased from another does not constitute a location or office for the personal property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor. The site of real property which is rented or leased to another does not constitute a location or office for the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor unless the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor, in addition to showing the property to prospective lessees or tenants and performing maintenance or repair of the property, otherwise conducts the business of renting or leasing the real property at such site or otherwise conducts any other business, profession, or occupation at such site.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations, or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession, or business for revenue raising purposes.
Person shall be held to include sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, nonprofits, or any other form of business organization,
Practitioner of profession or occupation is one who by state law requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation. Practitioners of professions and occupations shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees, or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession, or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the city. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee. Development impact fees as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2(8) or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-2; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
State Law reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5.
Sec. 10-23. - Administrative and regulatory fee structure; occupation tax structure.
The regulatory fee schedule for persons in occupations and professions is contained on the schedule of fees and charges.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-3; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-24. - Occupation tax levied; restrictions.
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the city and/or upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7 based upon the following:
(1)
The number of employees of the business or practitioner. Number of employees shall mean the average number of employees during a specified period of the calendar year who work 40 hours or more weekly. The hours of part-time employees and those working less than 40 hours/week shall be added together and the sum divided by 40 to produce the full time equivalent.
(2)
The tax rate determined by number of employees for each business, trade, profession, or occupation is as provided in the schedule of fees and will be updated from time to time by the city.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-4; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
State Law reference— Levy of taxes authorized, O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-6, 48-13-7.
Sec. 10-25. - Paying occupation tax of business with no location in the state.
Registration and assessment of an occupation tax is hereby imposed on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the state if the business's largest dollar volume of business in the state is in the city and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the jurisdiction of the city for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-5; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-26. - The number of businesses considered to be operating in the city.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-6; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-27. - Professionals.
Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18) shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
The occupation tax based on number of employees.
(2)
A fee as set out in the schedule of fees and charges per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service, such tax to be paid at the practitioner's office or location; provided, however, that a practitioner paying according to this subsection shall not be required to provide information to the local government relating to the gross receipts of the business or practitioner. The per-practitioner fee applies to each person in the business who qualifies as a practitioner under the state's regulatory guidelines and framework.
(3)
This election is to be made on an annual basis and must be done by January 1 of each year.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-7; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
State Law reference— Taxation of certain professionals, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-10(g).
Sec. 10-28. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for a government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, instrumentalities of the United States, the state, or a municipality or county of the state shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-8; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-13(3).
Sec. 10-29. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The occupation tax levied herein is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade, or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5—48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinance.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-9; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-30. - When tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such occupation tax shall be for the calendar year 1995 and succeeding calendar years thereafter unless otherwise specifically provided. Said registration and occupation tax shall be payable January 1 of each year and shall, if not paid by March 1 of each year, be subject to penalties for delinquency as prescribed in this article. On any new profession, trade, or calling begun in the city in 1995 or succeeding years thereafter, the registration and tax shall be delinquent if not obtained immediately upon beginning business and a ten percent penalty imposed. The tax registration herein provided for shall be issued by the city marshal and if any person, firm, or corporation whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after said registration or occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the city, any of the kind of profession, trade, or calling subject to this article without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall, upon conviction by the municipal judge, be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(b)
In addition to the above remedies, the marshal may proceed to collect in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-10; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-31. - Exemption on grounds that business is operated for charitable purpose.
No business on which a business registration or occupation tax is levied by this article shall be exempt from said registration or tax on the ground that such business is operated for a charitable purpose, unless 80 percent or more of the entire proceeds from said business are devoted to such purpose.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-11; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-32. - Evidence of state registration required if applicable; state registration to be displayed.
(a)
Each person who is licensed by the secretary of state pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 43 shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the city registration may be issued.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-12; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-33. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency, or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a city business registration, show evidence that such requirements have been met.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-13; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-34. - Liability of officers and agents; registration required; failure to obtain.
All persons subject to the occupation tax levied pursuant to this article shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for said business as described in this article, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a registration. Every person commencing business in the city after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration herein provided for before commencing the same; and any person transacting, or offering to transact, in the city, any of the kinds of business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having so obtained said registration, shall be subject to penalties provided thereof.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-14; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-35. - When registration and tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such registration shall be for the calendar year in which the registration was obtained unless otherwise specifically provided. There is hereby imposed a penalty upon each business which fails to apply for and obtain an appropriate business registration and pay all taxes and fees as provided herein before March 1 of each year, and on January 1 each year hereafter. Every person commencing business in the city after January 1 of each year shall obtain the registration required before commencing such business. Any person transacting or offering to transact in the city any trade, profession, or occupation without first having obtained said registration shall be subject to the penalties provided in section 1-11. Said penalties shall be in addition to all other penalties, civil and criminal, herein provided; and may be collected by the remedies herein provided for collection of the occupation tax, and shall have the same lien and priority as the occupation tax to which the penalty is applied. Any business or profession established after July 1 shall be entitled to a 50 percent reduction in annual fees for the remainder of that year.
(b)
The registration herein provided for shall be issued by the city marshal, and if any person, firm, or corporation whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after said occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the city, any of the kind of business, trade, profession, or occupation without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall be subject to the penalties provided thereof.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-15; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-36. - City marshal; subpoena and arrest powers.
The city marshal shall have full subpoena and arrest powers in conjunction with any violation pertaining to this article.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-17; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-37. - Businesses not covered by this article.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this article but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. title 46, ch. 3 (O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.).
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1.
(7)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355. (Businesses that purchase carload lots of guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed, or cottonseed meal and hulls.)
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-18; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-38. - More than one place or line of business.
Where a business is operated at more than one place or where the business includes more than one line, said business shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for each location and line and pay an occupation tax in accordance with the prevailing taxing method and tax rate for each location and line.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-19; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-39. - Inspections of books and records.
In any case the city marshal may inspect the books of the business for which the returns are made. The city marshal shall have the right to inspect the books or records for the business of which the return was made in the city and, upon demand of the code enforcement officer, such books or records shall be submitted for inspection by a representative of the city within 30 days. Failure of submission of such books or records within 30 days shall be grounds for revocation of the tax registration currently existing to do business in the city. Adequate records shall be kept in the city, for examination by the city marshal at that officer's discretion. If, after examination of the books or records, it is determined that a deficiency occurs as a result of under reporting, a penalty of 125 percent of the prime interest rate times the amount deficient will be assessed for the period delinquent. For purposes of this section, the prime interest rate shall be that which is published by The Wall Street Journal on the first business day of the year in which the under reporting is identified.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-20; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-40. - Tax registration to be revoked for failure to pay tax, file returns, permit inspection of books.
Upon the failure of any business to pay said occupation tax or any part thereof before it becomes delinquent, or upon failure to make any of said returns within the time required herein, or upon failure to make a true return, or upon failure to amend a return to set forth the truth, or upon failure to permit inspection of its books as above provided, any business tax registration granted by the city under this article permitting the owner of said business to do business for the current year shall be, ipso facto, revoked. No new business tax registration shall be granted by the city for the operation of a business for which any part of the occupation tax herein provided for is at that time unpaid, or to an individual, firm, or corporation who has failed to submit adequate records as requested by the city marshal in accordance with provisions found in section 10-39. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-21; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-41. - Effect of failure to comply with ordinance provisions; continuing in business after tax registration revocation.
Any persons, their managers, agents, or employees who do business in the city after the registration for said business has been revoked as above, hereby required to make occupation tax returns, and who fail to make said returns within the time and in the manner herein provided, who refuse to amend such returns so as to set forth the truth, or who shall make false returns; and any persons, their managers, agents, or employees who refuse to permit an inspection of books in their charge when the officers, agents, employees, or representatives of the the city request such inspection, during business hours, for the purpose of determining the accuracy of the returns herein provided for, shall be subject to penalties provided herein. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax. These penalties may consist of either a percentage of the amount due or a flat fee fine.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-22; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-42. - Lien taken for delinquent occupation tax.
In addition to the other remedies herein provided for the collection of the occupation tax herein levied, the city marshal, upon any tax or installment of said tax becoming delinquent and remaining unpaid, shall issue execution for the correct amount of said tax against the persons, partnership, or corporation liable for said tax, which said execution shall bear interest at the rate of ten percent per annum from the date when such tax or installment becomes delinquent, and the lien shall cover the property (in the city) of the person, partnership, or corporation liable for said tax, all as provided by the ordinances and Charter of the city and the laws of the state. The lien of said occupation tax shall become fixed on and date from the time when such tax or any installment thereof becomes delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the city marshal upon the property of the defendant located in said jurisdiction, and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of said execution, with interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be had as is provided by the ordinances and Charter of the city and the laws of the state, and the defendant in said execution shall have rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality and otherwise, which are provided by the applicable laws in regard to tax executions. When a nulla bona entry has been entered by proper authority upon an execution issued by the city marshal against any person defaulting on the occupation tax, the person against whom the entry was made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatsoever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If, at any time after the entry of nulla bona has been made, the person against whom the execution was issued pays the tax in full, together with all interest and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due him as though he had never defaulted in the payment of the taxes.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-23; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-43. - Enforcement of provisions.
It is hereby made the duty of the city marshal's office and police department to see that the provisions of this article relating to occupation taxes are observed; and to summon all violators of the same to appear before the court. It is hereby made the further duty of the city marshal's office, chief of police, members of the police department, and their assistants to inspect all registrations issued by the city, as often as in their judgment it may seem necessary to determine whether the registration held is the proper one for the business sought to be transacted thereunder.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-26; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-44. - Requirement of public hearing before tax increase.
After January 1, 1996, the mayor and city commission shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the rate of occupation tax as set forth in this article.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-28; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-45. - Conflicts between specific and general provisions.
Where there is an apparent conflict in this article between specific and general provisions, it is the intention hereof that the specific shall control.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-30; Ord. No. 12-11.1-95, 12-11-1995)
Sec. 10-46. - Additional requirements for issuance.
modified
(a)
Except as limited by other provisions of this chapter, upon application or renewal for an occupational tax certificate, license or any permit issued by the city, the city marshal or his designee shall not issue the same if the applicant or landowner of the property where the business is located has not paid any delinquent occupation taxes, property taxes, ad valorem taxes or debts owed to the city or the county board of commission. Except for taxes from the immediately preceding year and the person is under a valid payment contract with the Coffee County Tax Commissioner. However, if the applicant or landowner misses and/or fails to make one payment, as agreed in the payment plan/contract, the payment plans shall be null and void and all delinquent debts shall be paid in full within 30 days of the missed payment. If the delinquent debts are not paid in full, within 30 days, the occupational tax certificate, license or any permit shall be revoked.
(b)
If the applicant or landowner owes more than one year of past due taxes, the city marshal or his designee shall not issue an occupational tax certificate, license or any permit. Taxes are considered delinquent after December 31 of each of the year taxes are owed. Any person aggrieved by the denial of a license may, upon written appeal filed with the board of commissioners of the city within ten days, have such denial reviewed by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-33; Ord. No. 08232010 , § 1, 8-23-2010; Ord. No. 03272017(1), 3-27-2017 ; Ord. No. 05222023 , 5-22-2023)
Sec. 10-47. - Denial, revocation or suspension; appeals.
(a)
An occupation tax certificate, alcoholic beverage license or other permit or license, issued by the city, may be denied, suspended, revoked or not renewed upon one or more of the following grounds:
(1)
The applicant or certificate holder is guilty of fraud in the operation of the business or occupation he practices or fraud or deceit in being licensed to practice in that area;
(2)
The applicant or certificate holder is engaged in the business or occupation under a false or assumed name, or is impersonating another practitioner of a like or different name;
(3)
The applicant or certificate holder is addicted to the habitual use of intoxicating liquors, narcotics, or stimulants to such an extent he is unable to perform his duties under the business or occupation;
(4)
The applicant or certificate holder is guilty of fraudulent, false, misleading, or deceptive advertising or practices;
(5)
The applicant or certificate holder has been convicted of or has pled guilty or nolo contendere to any sexual offense as set out in O.C.G.A. title 16, ch. 6 (O.C.G.A. § 16-6-1 et seq.), or to any offense involving the lottery, illegal possession or sale of narcotics or alcoholic beverages or possession or receiving of stolen property, for a period of five years immediately prior to the filing of the application. If, after having been granted a certificate, the applicant pleads guilty, is convicted of, or enters a plea of nolo contendere to any of the above offenses, said certificate shall be subject to suspension and/or revocation or ground for the same not to be renewed. Nothing in this subsection shall supersede the minimum qualifications relating to alcoholic beverage license in section 4-69;
(6)
The original application or renewal thereof contains materially false information, or the applicant has deliberately sought to falsify information contained therein;
(7)
The business or establishment is not authorized to operate within the city, or within the zoning district within which it is located, or is otherwise not in conformity with locational requirements of any of the city's ordinances;
(8)
The business or establishment is a threat or nuisance to public health, safety or welfare;
(9)
The business or establishment has been found by a court of law to have been operating unlawfully;
(10)
If any holder or any representative of the holder of an city occupational tax certificate is engaged in unlawful activities which violate laws or regulations of the state, any city ordinances, appropriate county ordinances, applicable building codes, property maintenance codes, or zoning regulations;
(11)
Violation of any state law, statute, ordinance, rule, or regulation that governs the operation of the business in question;
(12)
Failure to pay any other taxes, fees, or delinquent bills owed to the city. Taxes will be considered delinquent after June 1, preceding the due date of said taxes; or
(13)
Any other violation of this article.
(b)
The city manager or his designee may deny, suspend, revoke or deny renewal of an occupational tax certificate, license or permit for violation of any part of this section.
(1)
When the occupational tax certificate, license or permit is denied, suspended, revoked or denied renewal, the city marshal shall notify the holder of the occupational tax certificate in writing and give official notice of such action. Notice shall be served to the owner or applicant of the occupational tax certificate, licensee, or permit holder. Such notice shall be deemed to be served properly if a copy thereof is delivered in person, or sent by certified and first-class mail, addressed to the last-known mailing address of the applicant, owner or licensee. If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice.
(2)
The holder of an occupational tax certificate, license or permit may, within ten days from receiving notice, file a written request to appeal the decision of the denial, suspension, revocation or denial of renewal of the occupational tax certificate, license, or permit. The city commission shall hold a hearing not less than 15 days nor more than 30 days from the date the written request was received, if reasonably possible.
(3)
The commission shall make the determination on whether or not to uphold the denial, suspension, or revocation of the occupational tax certificate, license or permit.
(c)
At the time the occupational tax certificate has been suspended or revoked, it shall be unlawful to continue business without a valid occupational tax certificate as required in section 10-21. Violation of section 10-21 shall be punished as set forth in section 1-11. Each day upon which violations of section 10-21 exists constitutes a separate offense.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 22-34; Ord. No. 03272017(1), 3-27-2017 )
Secs. 10-48—10-65. - Reserved.
