Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Douglasville" and may be so cited.
(Code 1977, § 1-1)
Charter reference— Authority to codify, § 2.12.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances and resolutions passed by the city council, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council:
Generally. Words shall be construed in their common and usual significance unless the contrary is clearly indicated.
City. The words "the city" or "this city" mean the City of Douglasville in the County of Douglas and State of Georgia.
City manager, city clerk, chief of police or other city officers. The words "city manager," "city clerk," "chief of police" or other city officers or departments mean the city manager, city clerk, chief of police or such other municipal officers or departments, respectively, of the city.
Code. The words "Code" or "this Code" mean the Code of the City of Douglasville.
Computation of time. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall be counted in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
Council. The terms "council" or "this council" or "the council" mean the city council of the City of Douglasville.
County. The terms "county" or "this county" mean the County of Douglas, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision of this Code requires or authorizes an officer or employee of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize the officer or employee to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the act or duty unless the terms of the provision specifically provide otherwise.
Easement. The word "easement" means a right, liberty, privilege or advantage without profit which the owner of one parcel of land may have in the lands of another; and also a right in the owner of one parcel of land, by reason of such ownership, to use the land of another for a special purpose not inconsistent with a general property right in the owner.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships, associations and corporations as well as to males.
Highway. The term "highway" includes any street, alley, highway, avenue or public place or square, bridge, viaduct, tunnel, underpass, overpass and causeway in the city, dedicated or devoted to public use.
Joint authority. Words purporting to give authority to three or more officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons, unless it is otherwise declared.
Month. The word "month" means a calendar month.
Number. Any word importing the singular number shall include the plural and any word importing the plural number shall include the singular.
Oath. The word "oath" includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
Official time standard. Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the city.
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" extends and be applied to organizations, associations, companies, corporations, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" means any portion of the street between the curb, or the lateral line of the roadway and the adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
Signature or subscription. The word "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when a person cannot write.
State. The words "the state" or "this state" mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" includes any highway, alley, street, avenue or public place or square, bridge, viaduct, underpass, overpass, tunnel and causeway in the city, dedicated or devoted to public use.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Written or in writing. The words "written" or "in writing" include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1977, §§ 1-2, 14-32)
State Law reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-3. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision of this Code or any such ordinance or resolution shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment for not more than 180 days, or labor on the roads and streets or other public works for not more than 180 days, or by any one or more of these punishments, subject to all limitations contained in the Charter of the city. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
In addition to the penalties hereinabove provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance, and may be abated by the city as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Code 1977, § 1-3; Ord. No. O-05-50, § 1, 9-19-05)
Charter reference— General penalty, § 6.03.
Cross reference— Minimum bond requirements for Code violations other than Uniform Traffic violations, § 1-10.
State Law reference— Organization of work gangs by cities, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8.
Sec. 1-4. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City of Douglasville to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-3 hereof.
(Code 1977, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the sections, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Code 1977, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Parenthetical and reference matter.
The matter in parentheses at the ends of sections is for information only and is not a part of the Code. Citations to the 1977 Code of the city (Code 1977) and to later ordinances indicate only the source and the text may or may not be changed by this Code. Reference matter not in parentheses is for information only and is not a part of this Code.
(Code 1977, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1977, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-8. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable and, if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the city council without the incorporation in this Code of any such invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1977, § 1-8)
Sec. 1-9. - Miscellaneous ordinances and actions not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(3)
Any administrative ordinance of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of such Code.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing salaries of officers or employees of the city.
(5)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by the mayor and council to any person, firm or corporation.
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(8)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city or providing regulations for the same.
(11)
An ordinance regulating zoning and subdivisions in the city.
(12)
Any ordinance making any act or failure to do any act an offense against the city, when such ordinance is authorized under the state law and is not inconsistent with the Code.
(13)
An ordinance fixing ad valorem taxes, or providing for the levying or collecting thereof.
(14)
Any ordinance prescribing traffic regulations for specific streets or intersections, such as ordinances designating one-way streets, no parking areas, truck routes, stop intersections, yield intersections, intersections where traffic is to be controlled by signals, etc.
(15)
Any ordinance relating to soil erosion.
(16)
Any ordinance establishing or imposing any rates, charges or fees for utility services or connections.
All such actions and ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Ord. of 4-4-77, § 3)
Sec. 1-10. - Minimum bond requirements for Code violations other than Uniform Traffic violations.
Code violations of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Douglasville, Georgia, without a state or local bond schedule shall now carry a bond as set below:
(1)
First offense .....$ 75.00
(2)
Second offense .....150.00
(3)
Third and subsequent offense with a mandatory court appearance .....200.00
(Res. No. R-94-1, 1-18-94; Ord. No. O-04-01, § 1, 1-20-04)
Cross reference— General penalty; continuing violations, § 1-3.
Sec. 1-11. - Failure to appear in court.
No person or entity, properly cited or officially notified or subpoenaed to appear in the municipal court, shall fail to appear without good cause. Failure to appear shall constitute an offense for which a warrant may be issued by the municipal court judge, and which may be punished as provided in section 1-3.
(Ord. No. O-2014-59, § 1, 12-15-14)
