ARTICLE VII. - RAILROADS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 82-211. - Speed.
(a)
Any agent, employee, or servant of any railroad company operating a railroad car, engine, locomotive, or train in the city shall operate the same at a careful and prudent rate of speed not greater than is reasonable and proper and safe, having due regard to the traffic on the street intersecting such railroad, and of any other condition then existing, and such agent, employee, or servant shall be at all times able to bring such railroad car, engine, locomotive or train to a complete stop short of any motor vehicle, person, or other object or obstruction that may be upon any crossing.
(b)
No agent, employee, or servant of any railroad company operating a railroad car, engine, locomotive, or train in the city shall operate the same at any place in the city designated as a business district at a speed greater than 30 miles per hour.
(c)
No agent, employee, or servant of any railroad company operating a railroad car, engine, locomotive, or train in the city shall back the same at any place in the city at a speed greater than ten miles per hour.
(d)
No agent, employee, or servant of any railroad company operating a railroad car, engine, locomotive, or train in the city shall operate the same at any place in the city designated as a residential district at a speed greater than 35 miles per hour.
(Code 1977, § 21-1)
Sec. 82-212. - Blocking street crossings.
No street crossing shall be blocked or obstructed by any railroad train, car or engine that is not in motion for longer at any one time than five minutes, and then only to allow the coupling and uncoupling of cars; provided, that this section shall not apply in cases of accident and absolute necessity.
(Code 1977, § 21-2)
Sec. 82-213. - Flying switch.
It shall be unlawful for any car, or string of cars, when put in motion by an engine, to be detached from the engine or train until the same shall have been fully stopped.
(Code 1977, § 21-3)
Sec. 82-214. - Jumping on or off trains while in motion.
It shall be unlawful for any person, except a railroad employee, to jump on or off an engine or car while it is in motion.
(Code 1977, § 21-4)
Sec. 82-215. - Riding on trains within city.
It shall be unlawful for any person, not a member of the train crew or otherwise connected with the running of such train, to ride upon any railroad engine, passenger coach, freight or other car within the city when the same is not actually engaged in the transportation of passengers; provided, that this section shall not apply to persons authorized to ride thereon by the proper officials of the railroad company controlling the same.
(Code 1977, § 21-5)
Sec. 82-216. - Maintenance of right-of-way.
Any railroad company operating a line of track within the city shall keep the right-of-way free and clear of any garbage, refuse, junk, or other matter that might be a danger to the health, welfare, morals, and safety of the citizens of the city. Any railroad company operating a line of track within the city shall keep the grass and the weeds thereon cut and properly trimmed so as not to constitute a fire hazard due to tall and uncut and unkept grass and weeds.
(Code 1977, § 21-6)
Sec. 82-217. - Standing of cars regulated.
It shall be unlawful for any railroad company to permit any freight or other railroad car to be stopped or parked within 50 feet of any railroad crossing, and such car shall never be parked or stopped so as to block the vision of any approaching train by any person desiring the use of the crossing.
(Code 1977, § 21-7)
Sec. 82-218. - Penalty for violation.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this division shall be guilty of an offense and may be punished as provided in section 1-3 of this Code.
(Code 1977, § 24-102)
Secs. 82-219—82-235. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - VEHICULAR TRAFFIC AT CERTAIN CROSSINGS

Sec. 82-236. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
City means the City of Douglasville, Georgia.
Person means any business, firm, partnership, corporation, company or organization of any kind.
Truck means any vehicle equipped with three or more axles. "Truck" shall also include any vehicle combined with or towing a trailer, flatbed or other vehicle.
(Code 1977, § 24-100)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 82-237. - Certain railroad crossings prohibited to truck traffic.
The railroad crossings located within the City of Douglasville, Georgia, at the intersection of Campbellton Street, U.S. Highway 78 and Georgia State Highway 92, and at the intersection of U.S. Highway 78, Price Street, and Strickland Street are hereby prohibited to truck traffic.
(Code 1977, § 24-101)
