Chapter 10.5 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Parks and recreation advisory board, § 2-86 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10.5-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Litter means garbage, refuse, paper, rubbish, debris, trash and all other waste material whether natural or artificial.
Recreational facilities means all areas located within any city park including, but not limited to any buildings, recreational fields, lakes, or other property or buildings located within any park owned, leased, or managed by the city, its parks and recreation department, or its designated agents. This definition shall include, but not be limited to, Bunten Road Park, W.P. Jones Park, Taylor Park, Hudgens Park, Church Street Park and the town green including the Duluth Festival Center building and adjoining amphitheater.
Vehicle means any motor-driven equipment, automobile, truck, motorcycle, bicycle or sled.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 1; Ord. of 1-28-02)
Sec. 10.5-2. - Enforcement of chapter.
This chapter shall be enforced by any authorized law enforcement officer of the city police department. Where there has been a violation of any provisions of this chapter, the law enforcement officer in their discretion may issue a warning ticket to the person violating these provisions rather than arrest the offender.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 2)
Sec. 10.5-3. - Penalties for violation of chapter.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined in a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or may be confined to jail for a term not exceeding sixty (60) days, or both.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 3)
Secs. 10.5-4—10.5-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - USE OF RECREATION FACILITIES

Sec. 10.5-21. - Littering prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit litter on the grounds, streets, sidewalks, fountain, pond, lake, swimming pool, stream or other body of water in any recreation facility, except within public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the recreation facility. Where public receptacles are not provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its presence and shall be properly disposed of elsewhere.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 4)
Sec. 10.5-22. - Wheeled vehicles on tennis courts prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or operate a wheeled vehicle or object on the tennis courts. For the purposes of this section, a wheeled vehicle or object includes, but is not limited to, roller skates, roller blades, skateboards, bicycles, tricycles, motorized cycles, scooters, and infant strollers. This section shall not apply to wheel chairs or assistive devices or those objects intended for use in connection with the game of tennis, such as tennis ball carriers.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 5)
Sec. 10.5-23. - Throwing objects prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any stone or missile at any person or at any public or private building in a recreation facility.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 6)
Sec. 10.5-24. - Annoying noises prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to whistle, hiss or holler at another person in a boisterous, unbecoming or erring manner or make any unnecessary or unusual noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, peace or safety of other persons in a recreation facility. This section shall not apply to employees of the city or their designees while performing their official duties.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 7)
Sec. 10.5-25. - Profanity prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use profanity or profane language in a recreation facility.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 1)
Sec. 10.5-26. - Fires restricted.
It shall be unlawful for any person to build or maintain a fire in a recreation facility except in designated areas which are clearly marked by signs. This section shall not apply to employees of the city or their designees while performing their official duties.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 9)
Sec. 10.5-27. - Damaging vegetation prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cut trees, tree limbs, shrubbery, flowers or other vegetation or dig up or damage trees, flowers or shrubbery or other vegetation in a recreation facility. This section shall not apply to employees of the city or their designees while performing their official duties.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 10)
Sec. 10.5-28. - Possession, use or consumption of alcoholic beverages.
It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, use, or consume any alcoholic beverage in the recreational facilities of the city other than as specifically provided for in this section. Possession, use and consumption of alcoholic beverages may be allowed in the Duluth Festival Center Building, the adjoining amphitheater, the town green area and Taylor Park, provided that the alcoholic beverages are in the possession of and being used and consumed by a person authorized by law to possess and consume alcoholic beverages and that said alcoholic beverages are possessed, used and consumed only at an event which has been specifically approved by the city and for which the possession, use and consumption of alcoholic beverages has been authorized in connection with the event and provided the alcoholic beverage is possessed, used or consumed in accordance with all guidelines, rules and regulations established by the city for such an event. The possession, use and consumption of alcoholic beverages shall only be authorized in the specific area which has been approved for the authorized event, and any possession, use or consumption of alcoholic beverages in any area other than the area specifically authorized for the event shall be prohibited and shall constitute a violation of this section.
The possession, use and consumption of alcoholic beverages shall also be authorized in Hudgens Park during the July 4th celebration and any other celebration which has been specifically authorized and approved by the city council and in which the use of alcoholic beverages is approved as part of the approval of such event. Any possession, use or consumption of alcoholic beverages at authorized events shall be subject to all rules, regulations and restrictions of law enacted by the city and/or the state related to the possession, use or consumption of alcoholic beverages, and nothing in this provision shall be construed to authorize the possession, use or consumption of alcoholic beverages outside of the authorized event areas or at any time in any recreational facilities other than within the specific hours for the scheduled event.
The possession, use and consumption of alcoholic beverages shall also be authorized in Rogers Bridge Park in areas and under terms specifically authorized by a permit issued by the director of parks and recreation department.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 11; Ord. of 1-28-02; Ord. of 5-28-02; Ord. of 9-13-10)
Sec. 10.5-29. - Vehicles restricted.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle in a recreation facility except upon roadways and paths constructed, designated and maintained for vehicular traffic. This section shall not apply to employees of the city or their designees while performing their official duties.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 12)
Sec. 10.5-30. - Vehicle operation restricted.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle in a recreation facility in a manner which endangers the public. Operation which endangers the public includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(1)
Operating a vehicle in excess of the posted speed limits;
(2)
Operating a vehicle too fast for conditions; or
(3)
Operating a vehicle in a reckless manner.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 13)
Sec. 10.5-31. - Parking restricted.
It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle in a recreation facility except in those areas designated by appropriate signs as vehicle parking areas.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 14)
Sec. 10.5-32. - Parking limited to facility users.
It shall be unlawful for any person to park in a recreation area if the operator or occupants of the vehicle are not utilizing the recreation facility.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 15)
Sec. 10.5-33. - Commercial activity restricted.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any merchandise or operate or attempt to operate a concession or engage in any commercial activity in a recreation facility without written authorization of the city.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 16)
Sec. 10.5-34. - Hours open to public restricted.
City recreation facility hours of operation are from dawn until 11:00 p.m. It shall be unlawful for any person, except participants in authorized programs such as recreation classes, meetings, special events or rentals and authorized city personnel to enter or be within a recreation facility outside of the hours of operation. This section shall not apply to employees of the city or their designees while performing their official duties.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 17)
Sec. 10.5-35. - Hours for vehicles restricted.
It shall be unlawful for any person, except participants in authorized programs such as recreation classes, meetings, special events or rentals and authorized parks and recreation personnel to drive a vehicle in or on a recreation facility or attempt to park or park a vehicle on any of the streets, avenues or parking areas or at any location within a recreation facility outside of the posted hours of operation as established and posted by the parks and recreation department. This section shall not apply to employees of the city or their designees while performing their official duties.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 18)
Sec. 10.5-36. - Interference with use and injurious use prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any activity within a recreation facility that could cause injury to another person or interfere with the use and enjoyment of the recreation facility by other persons.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 19)
Sec. 10.5-37. - Public indecency prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any activity within a recreation facility which is a violation of the City Code § 10-10, Public indecency, as that phrase is defined therein.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 20)
Sec. 10.5-38. - Violation of facility regulations.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any rules or regulations relating to the use of the recreation area as established by the parks and recreation department or by the city council.
(Ord. of 8-11-97, § 21)
Sec. 10.5-39. - Prohibited activities in Taylor Park and town green.
(a)
The city council declares that Taylor Park and the town green are public recreation areas intended for the peaceful use and enjoyment of the public. For the purposes of this section, Taylor Park and town green shall be considered the public area lying between West Lawrenceville Street, Hill Street, Main Street, and the city hall. The city council further finds that certain activities in this area constitute a danger to the public using the facilities located in this area and may result in personal injuries to those engaged in the activities and damage to the property located within this area.
(b)
In light of the foregoing declaration the following activities are unlawful in Taylor Park and the town green:
(1)
Skating, skateboarding and roller blading.
(2)
Riding or operating bicycles, motorized cycles, scooters or similar vehicles.
(3)
Throwing or striking hard balls such as baseballs, softballs, lacrosse balls, and golf balls.
(4)
Other activities that are dangerous and interfere with the public's use of the area or pose a threat to the safety of the public and/or surrounding property. The chief of police or his designee are given authority to assess whether any activity violates this subsection. However, before any citation is issued for violation of this subsection the violator shall be given notice that the activity is prohibited and be directed to cease the activity.
(c)
The chief of police or his designee is authorized to erect appropriate signage to notify the public of the provisions of this section and to take appropriate action to enforce the provisions of this section.
(Ord. of 11-26-01; Ord. of 9-14-09)
Sec. 10.5-40. - Urban camping prohibited.
(a)
Definitions. For purposes of this section:
(1)
Camp shall mean residing in or using a public street, sidewalk, or park for private living accommodations, such as erecting tents or other temporary structures of objects providing shelter; sleeping in a single place for any prolonged duration of time; regularly cooking or preparing means; or other similar activities.
(2)
Storing personal property means leaving one's personal effects, such as, but not limited to, clothing, bedrolls, cookware, sleeping bags, luggage, or backpacks, unattended for any substantial prolonged length of time. This term shall not include parking a bicycle or other mode of transportation.
(3)
Recreational facilities means all areas located within any city park including, but not limited to any buildings, recreational fields, rivers, lakes, or other property or buildings located within any park owned, leased, or managed by the city, its parks and recreation department, or its designated agents. This definition shall include, but not be limited to, Butten Road Park, W.P. Jones Park, Taylor Park, Hudgens Park, Church Street Park and the town green including the Duluth Festival Center and adjoining amphitheater.
(4)
Public street includes all public streets and highways, street and highway underpasses, public sidewalks, public benches, public parking lots, and medians.
(b)
Recreational facilities. It shall be unlawful to camp, to sleep, or to store personal property in any recreational facilities, as defined above, owned, leased and/or operated by the city.
(c)
Public streets. It shall be unlawful to camp, to sleep, to store personal property, to sit or lie down on any public street, as defined herein.
(d)
Other public property. It shall be unlawful to camp, to sleep, to store personal property, to sit or lie down on any public property so as to interfere with ingress or egress from buildings.
(e)
Warning. No person may be arrested for violating this code section until he or she has received an oral or written warning to cease the unlawful conduct. If the violator fails to comply with the warning issued, he or she is subject to arrest for urban camping.
(f)
Exceptions. This code section shall not be construed to prohibit the following behavior:
(1)
Persons sitting or lying down as a result of a medical emergency;
(2)
Persons confined to wheelchairs sitting on sidewalks;
(3)
Persons sitting down while attending parades;
(4)
Persons sitting down while patronizing sidewalk cafes or eateries;
(5)
Persons lying down or napping while attending performances, festivals, concerts, fireworks, or other special events;
(6)
Persons sitting on chairs or benches supplied by a public agency or abutting a private property owner;
(7)
Persons sitting on seats in bus zones occupied by people waiting for public transportation;
(8)
Persons sitting or lying down while waiting in an orderly line outside a box office to purchase tickets for any sporting event, concert, performance, or other special event;
(9)
Persons sitting or lying down while waiting in an orderly line awaiting entry to any building, including shelters, or awaiting social services, such as provision of meals; or
(10)
Children sleeping while being carried by an accompanying person or while sitting or lying in a stroller or baby carriage.
(g)
Severability. In the event any subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this section shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, including but not limited to, a declaration or adjudication that such subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of the ordinance violates a constitutional provision under the Georgia Constitution or the United States Constitution, such adjudication shall in no manner effect the other subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases of this ordinance, all of which shall remain in full force and effect as if the subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part thereof. The city council hereby declares it would have adopted the remaining parts of the section if it had known that such part or parts thereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional. The provisions of this section are declared severable to the maximum extent allowed by law.
(Ord. of 1-14-02)
Secs. 10.5-41—10.5-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - SMOKE FREE PUBLIC SPACES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. O-2019-19 , adopted September 9, 2019, repealed the former article III, §§ 10.5-51—10.5-53, and enacted a new article III, §§ 10.5-51, 10.5-52. The former article III pertained to tobacco free parks and derived from an Ord. of 12-12-11.

Sec. 10.5-51. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful to use any form of tobacco, hemp, marijuana, or any smoke emitting substance and or device including but not limited to; cigarettes, e-cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, pipes and or pens, at or on any city-owned or operated buildings, indoor or outdoor recreational facilities, including but not limited to playgrounds, restrooms, athletic fields, rivers, parks, walking/hiking trails, agency owned vehicles, spectator and concession areas or public plazas, public sidewalks or public parking areas within the downtown entertainment district as described in article II, section 3-268, subsection (b) of the Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. O-2019-19 , § 1, 9-9-19)
Sec. 10.5-52. - Enforcement.
(a)
Appropriate signs shall be posted in the above specified areas, buildings and or vehicles.
(b)
The city's marketing department will develop an education campaign to inform the community of the new policy.
(c)
Staff will make periodic observations of the above specified areas to monitor for compliance. Visitors smoking will be asked to refrain while in the above specified areas or buildings or leave the premises. If they refuse, law enforcement officers will be contacted to escort the person off the premises or cite the person for trespassing in case the person refuses to leave the property.
(Ord. No. O-2019-19 , § 1, 9-9-19)
