ARTICLE IX. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 2-200. - Internal operating procedures.
The internal operating procedures of the Gwinnett Judicial Circuit's Indigent Defense Program as accepted by the Gwinnett County Indigent Defense Committee on January 30, 2002, and as ordered by the Superior Court of Gwinnett County on January 30, 2002, the State Court of Gwinnett County on February 7, 2002, the Magistrate Court of Gwinnett County on February 17, 2002, the Gwinnett Circuit Juvenile Court on February 7, 2002, and the Recorder's Court of Gwinnett County on February 7, 2002, a copy of which is hereby set forth as attachment "A" to the ordinance of August 26, 2000, which adopted this article, is hereby adopted as the official policy of the city as modified herein. Attachement "A" is not set out herein, but is on file and available for inspection in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. of 8-26-02)
Sec. 2-201. - Interpretation of terms.
All references to the "county" or any office of the county including, but not limited to, the administrative office of the courts, in attachment "A" shall be considered to be references to the city. All references to the "committee" or "governing committee" in attachment "A" with respect to the selection of panel attorneys for the municipal court of the city and the processing and consideration of invoices from attorneys shall be considered to be references to the municipal court of the city.
(Ord. of 8-26-02)
Sec. 2-202. - Panel of attorneys.
The panel of attorneys from which appointments may be made by the municipal court of the city may be compiled by periodically soliciting attorneys who are on the panel of qualified attorneys created by the county indigent defense governing committee. The city panel of attorneys need not be categorized as in part X of attachment "A." Any attorney on the county's panel of attorneys who is involuntarily removed for cause pursuant to section 10.4(B) of attachment "A" to an ordinance of August 26, 2002, shall be ineligible for appointment by the municipal court of the city. Any other qualified attorney not appearing on the county's panel of qualified attorneys may request his or her inclusion on the city panel and may be included on the city panel if found to be qualified by the chief municipal court judge. Any attorney accepting an appointment by the municipal court of the city shall be required to comply with the guidelines and standards applicable to panel attorneys and other appointed counsel set forth in attachment "A," as modified herein.
(Ord. of 8-26-02)
Sec. 2-203. - Fee or expense invoice.
Any fee or expense invoice submitted by appointed counsel shall be submitted to the municipal court clerk and shall be reviewed by the city municipal court judge who made the appointment or the chief judge, whose decision regarding city panel attorneys, payment of fees, expenses, and costs shall be final and may not be appealed except as may be provided by law.
(Ord. of 8-26-02)
Sec. 2-204. - Standards of Alabama v. Shelton.
To the extent that attachment "A" assumes a standard for determining an indigent defendant's right to appointed counsel inconsistent with the holding of Alabama v. Shelton, it shall be the policy of the city to apply the standards of Alabama v. Shelton.
(Ord. of 8-26-02)
Sec. 2-205. - Appeals.
The term "appeal" as used in section 8.2 and section 3 of attachment "A" shall be construed to include a petition for certiorari to be filed in the superior court of the county after a conviction in the municipal court of the city. However, unless otherwise ordered by the municipal court, any appointment of counsel by the municipal court of the city shall terminate upon the entry of an order binding the case over to a court of record prior to any adjudication of the merits of the case by the municipal court.
(Ord. of 8-26-02)
Sec. 2-206. - Court clerk to maintain list of attorneys.
The municipal court clerk shall maintain a list of attorneys deemed eligible for appointment by the chief municipal court judge. The municipal court clerk shall provide a form for requesting appointed counsel to any defendant in a case pending in the municipal court and shall forward any such form or other request for appointed counsel to the chief judge of the municipal court. If no such forms have been developed or are not available at the time a request for appointed counsel is made, the clerk shall notify the chief judge of such request.
(Ord. of 8-26-02)
Sec. 2-207. - Chief judge of municipal court to develop procedures and forms.
The chief judge of the municipal court of the city may develop internal operating procedures and forms and other documents as may be necessary to effectuate this article and/or resolution.
(Ord. of 8-26-02)
Sec. 2-208. - Solicitor; qualifications and compensation.
(a)
The mayor and council are authorized to appoint a solicitor of the municipal court of the city. The city solicitor is hereby authorized to prosecute all cases to be heard before the municipal court of the city for the city. The mayor and council are authorized to appoint an assistant solicitor to act in the solicitor's place and stead. In the event that the solicitor is unable to attend a particular court session due to illness, emergency or conflicting court appearance schedules, or should the solicitor determine that an assistant solicitor should be present at a particular court session due to a large number of cases on the docket or other applicable factor(s), then the solicitor shall be authorized to designate an assistant solicitor to either act in the solicitor's place and stead or otherwise assist the solicitor for such court session. The solicitor and any assistant solicitors must be permitted to practice law in all courts of the state and be members in good standing with the state bar. The solicitor shall be appointed by the mayor and council and shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council. The solicitor and any assistant solicitors may be removed by a majority vote of the council.
(b)
The compensation of the solicitor and any assistant solicitor shall be on an hourly basis and that rate shall be fixed by the mayor and council on an annual basis during the regular budget process. Before entering on duties of office, the solicitor shall take an oath before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths in the state, that he or she will truly, honestly, and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability without fear, favor or partiality.
(Ord. of 8-25-03)
Sec. 2-209. - Judges.
(a)
The mayor and council shall appoint a chief judge of the municipal court of the city. The chief judge shall serve as the judge of the municipal court and shall also be the court administrator. The duties of the court administrator shall include the supervision of all court personnel, conducting written job evaluations of said court personnel at least once per fiscal year, and monitoring and overseeing the day to day operations of the municipal court. The court administrator shall be considered a department head.
(b)
The city manager shall have the authority to review the job performance and compensation of the chief judge/court administrator and to make adjustments in said compensation in the same manner as provided for in the city personnel policies for all other administrative employees. The mayor and council shall have the sole authority to hire, terminate or discipline the chief judge/court administrator.
(c)
The chief judge shall have the authority, by written order, to direct one (1) or more associate judges, appointed by the mayor and council, to preside over the municipal court in the absence of the chief judge or in addition to the chief judge. Such written order shall state the time and place that said associate judges shall preside over the city's municipal court. Said associate judges shall have all the powers granted to the judge of the city's municipal court by the Charter of the city during such time as set out in the written order from the chief judge.
(d)
It shall be the duty of the chief judge to notify the associate judges of the chief judge's absence from any session of the municipal court and to secure an associate judge to preside at that session of court. This notification shall be written and shall include a copy of the chief judge's written order as required by subjection (c) above.
(e)
The salary, compensation and benefits of the chief judge shall be set by ordinance approved by the mayor and council. All associate judges for the municipal court of the city will bill their services to the city at the rate of four hundred dollars ($400.00) per any court session of at least one (1) hour duration. All other court sessions and judicial duties will be billed at a uniform hourly rate of one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00) per hour with a minimum of one-half (½) hour to be billed in connection with any other judicial duties. Routine telephone inquiries by the clerk's office to an associate judge, and brief telephone calls, will not be billed by the associate judge. The compensation of associate judges may be changed from time to time by ordinance.
(f)
The chief judge of the municipal court of the city is hereby authorized to establish sessions of municipal court to be conducted at a time and place to be established in consultation with the city manager, city clerk, chief of police, and director of planning and development. Sessions of municipal court may be held to hear specific types of cases, as determined by the chief judge.
(g)
Upon the incapacity or death of the chief judge, the city council shall have the authority to appoint an interim chief judge who will serve until such time as a new chief judge can be appointed pursuant to the Charter and Code of Ordinances of the city.
(h)
The chief judge, city manager, city clerk and city attorney are hereby authorized and directed to revise the operational policies and procedures of the city relating to the municipal court to incorporate the operating changes set forth in this section.
(i)
All provisions of previously adopted ordinances relating to the appointment and compensation of the municipal court judges of the city which are in direct conflict with this section are hereby repealed.
(Ord. of 12-8-03; Ord. of 4-25-05; Ord. of 10-10-05; Ord. of 8-8-16 ; Ord. of 8-14-17 )
Editor's note— City administrator changed to city manager at the direction of the city.
Secs. 2-210—2-220. - Reserved.
