ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance of August 13, 2018 repealed the former Art. I, §§ 5-1—5-3, and enacted a new Art. I as set out herein. The former Art. I pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. of 12-13-82, §§ 1—4.

Sec. 5-1. - Administration.
Provisions of the following chapters, sections and technical codes shall constitute and be known and be cited as the "Duluth Building Code" hereinafter known as "this Code."
(a)
Purpose. The purpose of the Duluth Building Code is to provide standards to help protect the public's life, health, and welfare in the built environment through the administration and enforcement of the regulatory codes as adopted in article III of this Code and enforced by the City of Duluth. From time to time as future editions and amendments to these regulatory codes are published and adopted by the State of Georgia, they shall become a part of and/or replacement for these regulatory codes and shall be enforced on the date as mandated by state law.
(b)
Definitions. The definitions or terminology for the listed international and state codes shall be as described in Chapter 2 of each technical Codes and Chapter 1, Article 100 of the National Electrical Code.
(Ord. of 8-13-18 )
Sec. 5-2. - Code remedial.
This Code is hereby declared to be remedial, and shall be construed to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof - which are public safety, health and general welfare - through structural strength, stability, sanitation, adequate light and ventilation, and safety to life and property from fire and other hazards attributed to the built environment including alteration, repair, removal, demolition, use and occupancy of buildings, structures, or premises, and by regulating the installation and maintenance of all electrical, gas, mechanical, and plumbing systems, which may be referred to as service systems. This amended Chapter 1 is intended to provide for the administrative aspects for each of the referenced International Building Codes, the Georgia State Codes, the National Electrical Code and the International Residential Code.
(a)
Code update and replacement. As future new editions of the adopted referenced codes are published and adopted by the State of Georgia they shall become at that time the replacement for these codes, and shall become enforceable on the date as mandated by state law. Revisions to these codes shall become enforceable only upon incorporation into new editions of the aforementioned codes, generally in three (3) year cycles, or as mandated by state law.
(b)
Quality control. Quality control of materials and workmanship is not within the purview of this Code.
(c)
No representation or warranty. This code shall not create any duty or right of recovery against the City of Duluth's officials and employees. The inspection or permitting of any building or plan by the City of Duluth, under the requirements of this Code, is not intended to be construed as a representation or warranty of the physical condition of such building or the adequacy of such plans. Neither the City of Duluth nor any official or employee thereof shall be liable for damages to person or property for any defect or hazardous or illegal condition or inadequacy in such building, system or plans, nor for any failure of any component of such. Neither the City of Duluth nor any of its officials or employees shall have any liability for any act or failure to act pursuant to the provisions of this Code.
(Ord. of 8-13-18 )
Sec. 5-3. - Scope.
This Code shall serve to supplement the scope and administration section of each of the adopted regulatory codes identified in chapter 5, article III of this Code.
(a)
Building. The provisions of the International Building Code, as amended, shall apply to the construction, alteration, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance, removal and demolition, of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or structures. The provisions of the International Residential Code, as amended, shall apply to one- and two-family dwellings.
(b)
Energy conservation. The provisions of the International Energy Conservation Code, as amended, shall require the design of building envelopes for adequate thermal resistance and low air leakage and the design and selection of mechanical, electrical, service water heating and illumination systems and equipment which will enable the effective use of energy in all new building construction.
(c)
Electrical. The provisions of the National Electrical Code, as amended, shall apply to the installation of electrical systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances thereof. The provisions of Chapters 34 through 42 of the International Residential Code, as amended, shall apply to the installation of electrical systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances thereof for one- and two-family dwellings.
(d)
Gas. The provisions of the International Fuel Gas Code, as amended, shall apply to the installation of consumer's gas piping, gas appliances and related accessories as covered in this Code. These requirements apply to gas piping systems extending from the point of delivery to the inlet connections of appliances, and the installation and operation of residential and commercial gas appliances and related accessories.
(e)
Mechanical. The provisions of the International Mechanical Code, as amended, shall apply to the installation of mechanical systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings, and/or appurtenances, including ventilating, heating, cooling, air conditioning and refrigeration systems, incinerators, and other energy-related systems.
(f)
Plumbing. The provisions of the International Plumbing Code, as amended, shall apply to every plumbing installation, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings, and appurtenances, and when connected to a water or sewerage system whether public or private.
(g)
Swimming Pool. The provisions of the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, as amended, shall apply to the protection of the public health, safety and welfare by prescribing minimum standards for the design, construction or installation, repair and alterations of swimming pools, public or private, and equipment related thereto; and shall require permitting and inspection, therefore, providing the administration and enforcement of the standards set forth herein. This Code is not intended to supersede the Swimming Pool and Spa Code as enforced by the Duluth Department of Planning and Development and the Gwinnett County Environmental Health Department nor any state or federal regulations. Whenever there is a conflict between these codes or regulations the stricter shall apply.
(h)
Federal and state authority. The provisions of this Code shall not be held to deprive any federal or state agency, or any applicable governing authority having jurisdiction, of any power or authority which it had on the effective date of adoption of this Code, or of any remedy then existing for the enforcement of its orders, not shall it deprive any individual or corporation of its legal rights as provided by law.
(i)
Appendices. Only those appendices which are either specifically mentioned in the adopting ordinance and included in the amendments of this Code or specifically referenced in the text of this Code are intended to be enforced.
(j)
Referenced standards. Standards referenced in this Code shall be considered an integral part of this Code without separate adoption. When specific portions of a standard are denoted in the text of this Code, only those portions of the standard shall be enforced; and where provisions of this Code conflict with a standard, the provisions of this Code shall be enforced. Permissive and advisory provisions in a standard shall not be construed as mandatory.
(k)
Maintenance. All buildings, structures, electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing and energy conservation systems, both existing and new, and all parts thereof, shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary condition. All devices or safeguards required by this Code at the time of construction, alteration or repair, shall be maintained in good working order. The party responsible for the continual maintenance of a building, structure, or electrical, gas, mechanical, energy conservation and plumbing systems shall be the owner, or his or her designated agent.
(Ord. of 8-13-18 )
Secs. 5-4—5-20. - Reserved.
