ARTICLE XIII. - DULUTH TAD ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Sec. 2-280. - Membership, appointment, terms.
(a)
The Duluth TAD Advisory Committee, hereinafter known as "DTADAC" shall be made up of five (5) regular members. Members shall include two (2) members of the mayor and council, appointed by the mayor and council; the city manager or his/her designee; the chair of the Gwinnett County Commission or his/her designee and Gwinnett County's Director of Planning or his/her designee.
(b)
The two (2) officials representing the mayor and council posts [are] to be appointed for four (4) year terms. Permanent positions shall be the city manager or his/her designee; the chair of the Gwinnett County Board of Commissioners or his/her designee, and the Gwinnett County Director of Planning or his/her designee.
(c)
City of Duluth DTADAC members shall be subject to and comply with the code of ethics found in chapter 2, article X, of this Code.
(d)
DTADAC members hall serve without compensation or reimbursement for personal expenses, unless specifically approved by the city council.
( Ord. of 5-12-14 )
Sec. 2-281. - Duties.
(a)
Officers. There shall be a chair and vice-chair and secretary of the committee. DTADAC shall elect all officers from its membership for a term of one (1) year and shall determine responsibilities of the officers.
(b)
Meetings. DTADAC shall hold meetings as needed and the committee shall determine the frequency, time and location of the meetings. The committee shall provide notice of all meetings as well as agenda of the meeting, to the Duluth City Clerk a minimum of forty-eight (48) hours prior to the meeting to ensure public notice requirements are met. All meetings shall be conducted in accordance with the Georgia Open Meetings Act and any amendments thereto. Meetings shall be held at a location within the corporate limits of Duluth that is open to the public and accessible to persons with disabilities. All minutes and records of the committee shall be public records and kept in the custody of the city clerk.
(c)
TAD annual report. Each year the DTADAC shall provide to Gwinnett County, within sixty (60) days after the end of each such fiscal year, a comprehensive annual report regarding the amount of positive tax allocation increment deposited in the TAD special fund, the uses of such funds, and the status of all development undertaken within the TAD.
( Ord. of 5-12-14 )
Secs. 2-282—2-289. - Reserved.
