ARTICLE VII. - APPOINTMENT, REVIEW, COMPENSATION AND TERMINATION PAY FOR CITY MANAGER, POLICE CHIEF AND CITY CLERK[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance of November 11, 1996 amended the Code by adding a new Art. IV, §§ 2-60 and 2-61. In order to prevent duplication of article numbers, said provisions have been redesignated as Art. VII, §§ 2-106 and 2-107, at the discretion of the editor.
Editor's note— City administrator changed to city manager at the direction of the city.

Sec. 2-106. - Appointment, annual compensation and evaluations.
The city manager, the chief of police and the city clerk shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council. The compensation and benefits for the city manager shall be established by the mayor and council. The mayor and council shall confer with the city manager on at least an annual basis regarding job performance and compensation. The mayor and council shall provide the city manager with a written job evaluation at least once per fiscal year; shall conduct a salary review prior to the end of each fiscal year; and shall determine whether any adjustment of the compensation and benefits provided for the city manager should be made for the next fiscal year. Any action changing the compensation or benefits of the city manager shall be taken in a public meeting and shall be recorded in the minutes of the public meeting, except the city manager shall be eligible for costs of living increases and annual performance compensation subject to the same terms and conditions as all other employees.
The city manager shall have authority to review the job performance and compensation of the city clerk and chief of police and to make adjustments in said compensation in the same manner as provided for in the city personnel polices for all other administrative employees. Any recommendations of the city manager for disciplinary action or termination of the city clerk or chief of police shall be forwarded to the mayor and city council for consideration.
(Ord. of 11-11-96; Ord. of 12-11-00)
Editor's note— City administrator changed to city manager at the direction of the city.
Sec. 2-107. - Termination pay.
The chief of police, the city manager and the city clerk shall be entitled to certain termination pay as part of their compensation and benefits of the position. Upon appointment by the mayor and council and during the first twelve (12) months after appointment, the chief of police, the city manager and the city clerk (hereinafter "the official") shall be entitled to termination pay equal to two (2) weeks salary; after twelve (12) months of service and until the official has completed twenty-four (24) months of service, the official shall be entitled to termination pay equal to four (4) weeks salary; this termination benefit shall thereafter increase by an amount equal to the official's salary for one week for each additional year of service with the city (Example: six (6) years of service equals eight (8) weeks of termination pay). The amount of termination pay accumulated by the official shall never exceed sixteen weeks of the official's salary. Any termination pay earned in accordance with the provisions of this section shall be in addition to any other accrued or guaranteed benefits which the employee may be entitled under the personnel policies of the city or the laws of the State of Georgia or the United States of America; however, the official shall not gain or accrue any additional benefits as a result of the termination pay provided to the employee.
The official shall be entitled to this termination pay if the official is terminated by the mayor and council for any reason other than arrest and/or conviction of a crime or for professional misconduct. For purposes of this article, the term "professional misconduct" shall include but not be limited to the following offenses: Willful disregard of an express direction of the city council and/or refusal to obey reasonable orders of the city council; willful neglect of duties; inappropriate or illegal harassment of city employees; or actions involving fraud or dishonesty. The official shall also be entitled to termination pay should the official resign following a request by a majority of the city council that a resignation be tendered in lieu of termination for a reason other than arrest or conviction of a crime or for professional misconduct. The official shall not be entitled to termination pay as described in this section upon voluntary resignation of the official's position.
(Ord. of 11-11-97)
Editor's note— City administrator changed to city manager at the direction of the city.
Secs. 2-108, 2-109. - Reserved.
