Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Duluth, Georgia" or "the Duluth Code" and may be so cited.
(Ord. No. O-2022-32, § I, 10-10-22)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
The following words, terms, phrases, when used in this Code, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Generally. The ordinary definition shall be applied to all words, except words of art or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter when they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter. In all interpretations the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the city council, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the perceived issue, or problem involved and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
Liberal construction; minimum requirements; overlapping provisions. All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the city council may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the other provisions of this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. The specific controls over the general.
City. The term "city" means the City of Duluth, Georgia.
City council, mayor and city council, or council. The terms "city council," "mayor and city council," or "council" means the governing authority of the City of Duluth, Georgia, consisting of the duly elected and qualified mayor and the five (5) duly elected and qualified councilmembers.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of the City of Duluth, Georgia, designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted, but the last day shall be counted. If the last day shall fall on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday, or Tuesday, if Monday is a legal holiday, to exercise such privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action shall fall on a public or legal holiday as set forth in state law, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following business day to exercise such privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven (7) days, an intermediate Saturday, Sunday and legal holiday shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. Where a provision involves two (2) or more items, conditions, provisions or events connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either … or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, provided however, in appropriate cases, the terms "and" and "or" may be interchangeable:
(1)
The term "and" indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events shall apply.
(2)
The term "or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events may apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
The term "either … or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events shall apply singly, but not in combination.
Councilmember. The term "councilmember" means the individual elected and qualified members of the city council as described under the Charter, and applies to the male or female gender. The mayor is not a councilmember.
County. The term "county" means Gwinnett County, Georgia, as applicable to the issue under consideration.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring a city officer or city employee to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize the officer or employee to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates, or another, to perform the required act.
Department, office, agency. The name or title of any department, office, or agency, unless specifically stated otherwise, shall be read as though the term "of the City of Duluth, Georgia" were added thereto.
Fire department. The term "fire department" shall first refer to the city fire department, then to the county fire department if it provides services to the city.
Following. The term "following" means next after.
Gender. Words of one gender include all other genders.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
Judge. The term "judge" means the municipal court judge.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
Mayor. The term "mayor" means the elected and qualified mayor of the city of Duluth, Georgia as described under the Charter.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. The singular and plural number includes the other, unless expressly excluded.
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation.
O.C.G.A., state acts. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended. A reference to a state act, whether by year and act number, year, act number and page, year and page or short title is a reference to such act as amended.
Officials, employees, boards, commissions, or other agencies. Whenever reference is made to officials, employees, boards, commissions, or other agencies by title only, the reference refers to the officials, employees, boards, commissions, or other agencies of the city.
Owner. The term "owner," as applied to a building or land, means and includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, partner in a partnership or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
Person. The term "person" means and includes any association, club, society, firm, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" means and includes every species of property, except real property.
Police. The term "police" means the police department or police chief of the county or of the city, whichever is serving as the police force for the city.
Property. The term "property" means and includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means and includes any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or congregate.
Real property. The term "real property" means and includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and fixtures permanently attached to the land.
Shall. The term "shall" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
Signature or subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" means the written or electronic attachment of the identifying mark of a person and includes the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. The term "state" means the State of Georgia.
Street or road. The terms "street" and "road" means and includes any street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane, viaduct, and any other public highway in the city, including, but not limited to, the paved or improved surfaces thereof.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, means and includes any person holding a written or oral lease of or who occupies the whole or a part of a building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense mean and include the future, as well as the past and present.
Week. The term "week" means seven days, generally running from Sunday through the following Saturday.
Will. The term "will" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Writing. The term "writing" means and includes printing and all numerals.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year, unless otherwise incorporated with a modifying term such as "fiscal year."
(Ord. No. O-2022-32, § II, 10-10-22)
State Law reference— Construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect. The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(b)
Ordinances which do not provide for their taking effect at a different time take effect immediately after their passage, without reference to their publication.
(Ord. No. O-2022-32, § III, 10-10-22)
Sec. 1-4. - Notes and catchlines of sections not part of law.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor, as any part of such sections nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Editor's notes, cross references, and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions, or sections are to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions, or sections of this Code, unless otherwise specified.
(Ord. No. O-2022-32, § IV, 10-10-22)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the mayor and council without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section.
Sec. 1-6. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment for not more than one hundred eighty (180) days or by compulsory labor on the streets or public works not to exceed thirty (30) days or by both fine and imprisonment or labor, or the fine may be imposed with an alternative of such imprisonment or compulsory labor, for each separate violation.
(b)
Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
The chief judge of the City of Duluth Municipal Court shall be authorized to establish by court order a surcharge amount which shall be added to any penalty imposed for violation of city ordinances, codes or state law violations over which the court has jurisdiction. The surcharge shall be used to defray the costs of operation associated with the prosecution of such offense and the amount set by the chief judge shall bear a reasonable relationship to the court's operational costs. If the addition of the surcharge results in a total monetary penalty exceeding that which is allowed by law such surcharge shall be reduced to ensure compliance with all applicable laws.
(d)
The judges of the City of Duluth Municipal Court shall be authorized to assess reasonable fees, against defendants who do not appear in court for a scheduled appearance, in order to offset the administrative costs associated with the issuance of a bench warrant, late fee, or suspension of a driver's license. The decision as to whether to issue a bench warrant shall be left to the discretion of the municipal judge, subject to all legal requirements.
(Ord. of 2-23-09; Ord. of 6-22-09; Ord. of 6-13-11; Ord. of 12-9-13)
Charter reference— Authority to provide penalties for ordinance violations, § 1.13(22); authority of municipal court to establish schedule of fees to defray costs, § 4.13 (d).
Sec. 1-7. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
Effect. Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the mayor and council to make the same a part hereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated in this Code so that reference to "The Code of the City of Duluth, Georgia," shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
(b)
Manner. All ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the mayor and council.
(c)
Cite. All sections, articles, chapters or other provisions of this Code desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section number, article number, chapter or other number, as the case may be.
(d)
Language. Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code should be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section _______ of The Code of Ordinances of the City of Duluth, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: …." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(e)
New sections. If a new section not heretofore existing in this Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of the City of Duluth, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section, article, chapter or other designation as the case may be, to be numbered _______, which reads as follows: …." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(f)
New material. In lieu of subsection (e), when the mayor and council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature embracing a subject not previously existing in this Code, which the council desires to incorporate into the Code, a provision in substantially the following language may be made part of such ordinance: "It is the intention of the city commission, and it is hereby ordained, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made part of the Code of the City of Duluth, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
(g)
Subject to general penalty. In case of the amendment by the mayor and council of any section of this Code for which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in section 1-6 shall apply to the section as amended. In case such amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the aforementioned general penalty is provided in another section in the same chapter, the penalty so provided in such other section shall be held to relate to the section so amended, unless such penalty is specifically repealed therein.
(Ord. No. O-2022-32, § V, 10-10-22)
Sec. 1-8. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the mayor and council. A supplement to the Code shall include substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the mayor and council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code, and shall also include all amendments to the Charter during the period. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier, meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement, may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____," inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code.
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-9. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinances adopting this Code shall affect any of the following when not inconsistent with this Code:
(1)
Any ordinance which is temporary, although general in effect, or special, although permanent in effect.
(2)
Any ordinance adopted for purposes which have been consummated.
(3)
Any ordinance assessing a fee.
(4)
Any right or franchise granted by the mayor and council to any person, firm or corporation.
(5)
Any administrative ordinance of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(6)
Any ordinance fixing salaries of officers or employees of the city.
(7)
Any ordinance, resolution, policy or procedure pertaining to the regulation, retirement or pensioning of city personnel.
(8)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(9)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(10)
Any ordinance making any act or failure to do any act an offense against the city, when such ordinance is authorized under the state law.
(11)
Establishing any one-way street, traffic device, signal or marking, any parking regulation, or any limitation placed upon the use of any specific street for vehicles or pedestrians.
(12)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(13)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the grades of any street in the city.
(14)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city or providing regulations for the same.
(15)
Any ordinance fixing ad valorem taxes, or providing for the levying or collecting thereof.
(16)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor.
(17)
Any ordinance annexing real property to the city.
All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code. These ordinances are on file in the city clerk's office.
(Ord. No. O-2022-32, § VI, 10-10-22)
