ARTICLE VII. - ESCORT SERVICES

Sec. 10-199. - Intent of article.
It is the intent of this article to regulate the operation of escort and/or dating services operating for profit in the city consistent with the requirements of the Constitution and laws of the state.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 15, art. 7, § 1)
Sec. 10-200. - Compliance.
No person shall conduct the business for profit of an escort and/or dating service in the city without first meeting the requirements of this article.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 15, art. 7, § 2)
Sec. 10-201. - Copy of article.
Upon request, the city manager or designee shall provide each applicant hereunder with a copy of this article.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 15, art. 7, § 3)
Sec. 10-202. - Information concerning employees to be filed with city manager; fingerprint-based background check required.
(a)
All licensees under this article must file with the city manager or designee their home address, home telephone number, and place of employment. Changes thereto shall be filed with the city manager or designee within ten days from the date the change becomes effective.
(b)
All employees of the licensee must submit to a fingerprint-based background check, pursuant to section 2-62 of this Code, not less than 15 days prior to commencing work to allow for the investigation of the employee.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 15, art. 7, § 4; Ord. No. 2017-01-02, § 7, 1-9-2017; Ord. No. 2018-03-01, § 7, 3-12-2018)
Editor's note— Section 7 of Ord. No. 2017-01-02, adopted Jan. 9, 2017, changed the title of § 10-202 from "Information concerning employees to be filed with the city manager; background investigation required" to read as herein set out.
Sec. 10-203. - Records of clients.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the licensee to maintain correct and accurate records of the name and address of the persons receiving escort and/or dating services and to provide the name of the employee providing such service. Records shall be kept for a minimum of three years. These records shall be subject to inspection at any time by the city manager or designee and the city police department.
(b)
Failure to maintain records as required in this section is a violation of this article.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 15, art. 7, § 5)
Sec. 10-204. - License required; application; information to be given.
(a)
Any person desiring to engage in the business, trade or profession of providing and/or arranging dates, escorts, or partners for persons shall, before engaging in such business, trade or profession, file an application with the city manager or designee and obtain a license. This application shall be typewritten or legibly handwritten and shall contain the following as appendices:
(1)
Name, home and business address of the applicant, date of birth, and sex.
(2)
The applicant and employees must submit to a fingerprint-based background check in accordance with section 2-62 of this Code.
(3)
The applicant must furnish a list of at least three character witnesses by name, address, and telephone number.
(4)
Applicants shall furnish the name and address of any person having previously employed the applicant (in whatever position) for the last two years, if applicable.
(5)
Applicants shall provide two recent identical photographs to the city manager or designee. The photographs must have been taken within the past six months and be a good likeness of the applicant. The photographs must be clear with a full front view of the applicant's face. Photographs may be in color or black and white and the size must be two inches by two inches. The photograph must be taken without head covering unless a signed statement is submitted indicating that the head covering is worn daily for religious or medical reasons. Dark glasses may not be worn in the photographs unless a doctor's statement is submitted supporting the wearing of dark glasses for medical reasons. The city manager or designee shall permanently affix one photograph to the permit.
(b)
The city police department shall be notified within ten days of any change of ownership and/or partners or employees.
(c)
A corporation, partnership, or other business entity being established for the purpose of engaging in the business, trade or profession of providing and/or arranging dates, escorts, or partners for persons, must also obtain a license.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 15, art. 7, § 6; Ord. No. 2017-01-02, § 8, 1-9-2017; Ord. No. 2018-03-01, § 8, 3-12-2018)
Sec. 10-205. - Qualifications of applicant.
No occupation tax certificate or license shall be granted pursuant to this article to any person less than 18 years of age or any person who has been convicted, pled guilty or entered a plea of nolo contendere under any federal, state or local law of any crime involving moral turpitude, illegal gambling, any felony, criminal trespass, public indecency, misdemeanor involving any type of sexual related crime, any theft or violence against person or property, any crime of possession, sale, or distribution of illegal drugs, distribution of material depicting nudity or sexual conduct as defined under state law, criminal solicitation to commit any of these listed offenses, attempts to commit any of these listed offenses, for a period of ten years prior to the date of application for such certificate and has been released from parole or probation.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 15, art. 7, § 7)
Sec. 10-206. - Fees.
License fees and the background investigation fee shall be as established by the city council. No license can be issued by the city manager or designee until the applicant satisfies the qualifications listed in this article and pays all license fees.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 15, art. 7, § 8)
Sec. 10-207. - Unlawful or prohibited activities.
No person less than 18 years of age shall be employed by an escort and/or dating service in any capacity.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 15, art. 7, § 9)
Sec. 10-208. - Notice of denial of license.
The city manager or designee shall provide the applicant with written notice of the denial of the escort and/or dating service license. The notice of denial shall include the grounds for denial.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 15, art. 7, § 10)
Sec. 10-209. - Suspension or revocation of license.
(a)
No license issued hereunder may be transferred.
(b)
Each license granted hereunder shall be subject to suspension or revocation for violation of any rule or regulation of the city now in force or hereafter adopted.
(c)
Whenever the city manager or designee determines there is cause to suspend or revoke the license issued hereunder, the city manager or designee must give the licensee a ten-day written notice of intention to suspend or revoke the license. A hearing will be scheduled wherein the licensee may present a defense to the suspension or revocation before the mayor and city council or such board as the mayor and city council may designate. The ten-day written notice must include the time, place, and purpose of such hearing, and a statement of the charges upon which such hearing shall be held. After the hearing, the board may suspend or revoke the license issued hereunder for any of the grounds set forth in this subsection. A license may be suspended or revoked upon one or more of the following grounds:
(1)
The licensee is engaged in the escort and/or dating service under a false or assumed name, or is impersonating another practitioner of a like or different name;
(2)
The licensee is addicted to the habitual use of intoxicating liquors, narcotics, or stimulants to such an extent as to incapacitate such person to the extent that he is unable to perform his duties;
(3)
The licensee is guilty of fraudulent, false, misleading, or deceptive advertising or practices;
(4)
The licensee has been convicted of or has pled guilty or nolo contendere to any sexual offense as set out in O.C.G.A. §§ 16-6-1 through 16-6-25, or to any offense involving the lottery, illegal possession or sale of narcotics or alcoholic beverages or possession or receiving of stolen property, for a period of five years immediately prior to the filing of the application. If, after having been granted a license, the licensee is found not to be of good moral character, or pleads guilty or enters a plea of nolo contendere to any of the above offenses, said license shall be subject to suspension and/or revocation;
(5)
The application contains materially false information, or the applicant has deliberately sought to falsify information contained therein;
(6)
The licensee fails to pay all fees, taxes or other charges imposed by the provisions of this article;
(7)
The licensee fails to maintain all of the general qualifications applicable to initial issuance of a license under this article;
(8)
The establishment is a threat or nuisance to public health, safety or welfare; or
(9)
Any other violation of this article.
(d)
After the city manager or designee makes a recommendation to the city council to suspend or revoke a license issued hereunder, the city council, or such board as it may designate, will conduct a hearing to hear evidence relevant to the alleged violation.
(1)
At the hearing, the city manager or his designee proceeds first and presents all evidence and argument in support of the recommendation to suspend or revoke the license issued hereunder.
(2)
After the city manager or his designee makes his presentation, the licensee or the licensee's legal counsel, will present evidence and argument as to why the license issued hereunder should not be suspended or revoked. The city council or its designee will have the right to ask questions at any time.
(3)
After hearing all of the evidence and arguments of the parties, the city council will render a decision. The suspension or revocation of an escort or dating service license is final.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 15, art. 7, § 11)
Sec. 10-210. - Proration of license fee.
No license fees established in this article shall be prorated.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 15, art. 7, § 12)
Secs. 10-211—10-228. - Reserved.
