DIVISION 3. - BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS

Sec. 32-260. - Applications for building sewer permits.
Applications for building sewer permits shall be supplemented by plans, specifications and other information considered pertinent to the issuance of a permit. At the time the application is filed, a plumbing and inspection fee in an amount established by the county, a copy of which is on file in the office of the clerk of the county board of commissioners, shall be paid to the county. Installations and their respective tapping fees, as set by the county, shall be placed in one of two categories, residential or nonresidential. Proposed nonresidential discharges which meet the definition of significant industrial user shall also obtain a wastewater discharge permit as described in division 4 of this article. Nonresidential development has the option of requesting a recalculation of the tap fee based on actual water consumption after the first year of occupancy in a new building.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 3, § 1)
Sec. 32-261. - Separate building sewer for each building.
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building. An exception is made where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot, and no private sanitary sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway; then, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole system considered one building sewer.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 3, § 2)
Sec. 32-262. - Old building sewers in new buildings.
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they are found, upon examination and test by the county, to meet all requirements of this article.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 3, § 3)
Sec. 32-263. - Location of building sewer and building drain.
Unless otherwise authorized in writing by the department, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which a building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sanitary sewer, sewage carried by this drain shall be lifted by an approved sewage ejector to a height to permit gravity flow. All sewage ejector installations shall be approved by the county.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 3, § 4)
Sec. 32-264. - Owner to bear installation, connection costs.
The owner shall bear all costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer. The owner shall compensate the county for any loss or damage that may have occurred to the public sanitary sewer as a result of the installation of the building sewer.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 3, § 5)
Sec. 32-265. - Conformity to the county specifications.
The size, slope, alignment and materials used in constructing a building sewer; the methods used in excavating, placing of the pipe, and backfilling of the trench; and the testing of the pipe shall all conform to the specifications, guidelines and other applicable rules of the county and the city.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 3, § 6)
Sec. 32-266. - Connection of building sewer into public sewer.
(a)
The connection of the building sewer into the public sanitary sewer shall conform to the requirements and regulations of the county and the city. All connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from specified procedures must be approved in writing by the department before installation.
(b)
An applicant for a building sewer permit shall notify the department when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sanitary sewer. Service shall not be instituted until the plumbing fee and sewer tap fee are paid, and the connection is approved. Excavations necessary for the accomplishment of the connection shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights, so as to protect the public from hazard. All excavations greater than five feet deep shall be covered when excavation is not being conducted. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of work shall be restored at the owner's expense, in compliance with city specifications.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 3, § 7)
Sec. 32-267. - Connection of surface runoff and groundwater sources to public sewer.
Connection, directly or indirectly, of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, area drains or other sources of surface runoff is not permitted to a building drain or building sewer connected to a public sanitary sewer. Existing connections of these items to a building sewer shall be disconnected when the building sewer is connected to the public sanitary sewer system.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 3, § 8)
Sec. 32-268. - Connecting to public sewer without paying fees or obtaining permit.
It is unlawful to connect to the public sanitary sewer without payment of the prescribed fee and without a permit. If such a sewer connection is made, a current sewer tap fee, the fee at the time the connection was discovered, will be assessed; back sewer use charges will be made and interest at the rate specified in chapter 2 of the DeKalb County Code will be charged.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 3, § 9)
Sec. 32-269. - Maintenance and repair responsibility for building sewer service connections to public sanitary sewer system.
The property owner shall be responsible for maintenance and repair of building sewer service connections to the public sanitary sewer system on private property. The county will be responsible for maintenance and repair of building sewer service connections within city or the county street rights-of-way and sanitary sewer easements.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 3, § 10)
Secs. 32-270—32-286. - Reserved.
