DIVISION 7. - RATES AND CHARGES

Sec. 32-408. - Levied.
A service charge is levied and assessed for the operation and maintenance of the sewer system. This charge is based on the amount of potable water consumed per month by each contributor to the sewer system. The rate at which this charge is levied shall be as established by the county. The charges imposed by this article may be periodically revised at the discretion of the county and pursuant to the intergovernmental agreement between the county and the city. A readiness-to-serve charge is imposed for the operation of the sewer system based on the size of the customer's water meter. A surcharge for overstrength waste, i.e., wastes consisting of total suspended solids and/or five-day biochemical oxygen demand materials in concentrations exceeding 250 mg/l, ammonia in concentrations exceeding 30 mg/l, and total phosphorus exceeding ten mg/l, is levied at a rate approved and adopted by the county.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 6, § 1)
Sec. 32-409. - Billing.
The county finance department will prepare for each contributor to the sewerage system a monthly or bimonthly notice of the amount due. This notice shall be addressed and mailed to the address as designated by the owner or occupant of the property. Payment is due in full ten days from the date the notice is mailed, and shall be in default if not paid on or before the 20th day after the date of the notice. Failure to receive the notice in no way relieves the occupant of liability for the amount due.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 6, § 2)
Sec. 32-410. - Collection.
The county finance department will be responsible for the collection of all sewer service charges, pursuant to the intergovernmental agreement between the county and the city. It will have deposited to the account of the water and sewer fund of the county all sums collected for water and sewer services as soon as received.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 6, § 3)
Sec. 32-411. - Disconnection of service for failure to pay.
If payment has not been received 20 calendar days after the date of the notice of amount due for sewer services, a default notice shall be sent to the occupant of the property. If payment is not received within ten days after the date of the default notice, then the county will initiate action to terminate water service until such time as all sums due for sewer service, including penalties, are paid in full.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 6, § 4)
Sec. 32-412. - Right to tax for benefit of sewer system.
Nothing in this article shall be construed as limiting the right of the city or the county to exercise its right as authorized by law to create, operate and maintain a sewerage system through the imposition of ad valorem taxation.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 6, § 5)
Sec. 32-413. - Discharges to sewer system by persons or governments residing outside the county.
No persons or governments residing or operating outside the limits of the county shall discharge or cause to be discharged any material into the sanitary sewer system of the county without the prior approval of the county.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 6, § 6)
Secs. 32-414—32-439. - Reserved.
