ARTICLE VI. - MULTIFAMILY HOUSING REGULATIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-385. - Short title.
This article shall be known and may be referred to as the "Multifamily Housing Regulations of Early County."
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. I, § 4.1-1)
Sec. 10-386. - Authority.
The resolution from which this article is derived is adopted under authority of article IX, section II, paragraph IV, of the state constitution.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. I, § 4.1-2)
Sec. 10-387. - Jurisdiction.
These regulations shall govern the siting, construction, and occupancy of multifamily dwellings within the unincorporated areas of the county, whether constructed as rental units or for sale as condominium units. For the purposes of these regulations, multifamily dwellings shall include zero lot lines patio homes, semi-detached homes, quadruplex units, townhouses, garden apartments, and conventional multi-unit apartment buildings.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. I, § 4.1-3)
Sec. 10-388. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Apartment means a building containing three or more dwelling units.
Condominium means a form of ownership of less than the whole of a building or system of buildings under a statute which provides the mechanics and facilities for formal filing and recording of divided interests in real property, whether the division is vertical or horizontal. In general usage for dwellings, a building or group of buildings, in which units are owned individually, and the structure, common areas and facilities are owned by all the owners on a proportional, undivided basis.
Condominium association means the community association which administers and maintains the common property and common elements of a condominium.
Density means the number of dwelling units developed on an acre of land. As used in these regulations, all densities will be expressed in dwelling units per acre (du/acre).
Duplex (or duplex apartment) means a structure on a single lot containing two dwelling units, each of which is totally separated from the other by an unpierced wall extending from ground to roof or an unpierced ceiling and floor extending from exterior wall to exterior wall, except for a common stairwell exterior to both dwelling units.
Dwelling unit means one or more rooms and a single kitchen designed as a unit for occupancy by only one family for cooking, living, and sleeping purposes.
Garden apartment means a low rise (less than 2½ stories) apartment structure, generally developed at densities in the range of ten to 12 du/acre. See Illustration 4-1, which is attached to the resolution from which this article derived and is on file in the county clerk's office.
Migrant laborer or other bunk style houses means bunk-style accommodations providing temporary or permanent residence for unrelated individuals or families.
Multifamily residential development means any residential structure designed to house two or more families in attached individual dwelling units, with the specific exception of single duplex units on standard individual lots, including semi-detached houses, quadruplexes, townhouses, garden apartments, conventional multi-unit apartment buildings, and, for purposes of plan review, zero lot line patio homes.
Patio home means a one-family dwelling on a separate lot with open space setbacks on three sides and with a court. See Illustration 4-2, which is attached to the resolution from which this article derived and is on file in the county clerk's office.
Semi-detached home means a one-family dwelling attached to one other one-family dwelling by a common vertical wall, and each dwelling located on a separate lot. See Illustration 4-4, which is attached to the resolution from which this article derived and is on file in the county clerk's office.
Single-family detached home means a dwelling which is designed for and occupied by not more than one family and surrounded by open space or yards and which is not attached to any other dwelling by any means. See Illustration 4-5, which is attached to the resolution from which this article derived and is on file in the county clerk's office.
Townhouse means a one-family dwelling in a row of at least three such units in which each unit has its own front and rear access to the outside, no unit is located over another unit, and each unit is separated from any other unit by one or more common fire resistant walls. See Illustration 4-6, which is attached to the resolution from which this article derived and is on file in the county clerk's office.
Zero lot line means the location of a building on a lot in such a manner that one or more of the building's sides rest directly on a lot line.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. I, § 4.1-4)
Secs. 10-389—10-419. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 10-420. - Application.
All new multifamily residential developments within the unincorporated areas of the county shall conform to the minimum requirements set forth herein.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. II, § 4.2-1)
Sec. 10-421. - Preexisting multifamily residential developments.
All multifamily residential developments existing at the time of adoption of the resolution from which this article is derived, are hereby declared to be grandfathered and shall be allowed to continue to exist and operate as presently designed and improved until expanded or abandoned. However, such multifamily residential developments shall at all times conform to minimum health and sanitation codes of the county and the state.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. II, § 4.2-2)
Sec. 10-422. - Plat required.
After the effective date of the resolution from which these regulations are derived, each new multifamily residential development shall be presented in plan form for approval by the county planning commission and shall conform to the minimum design and improvement standards required herein.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. II, § 4.2-3)
Sec. 10-423. - Public street access.
No new multifamily residential development shall be developed within the county unless the street giving access thereto has been accepted as a public street, or unless such street has obtained the status of a public street prior to the effective date of the resolution from which this article is derived.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. II, § 4.2-4)
Sec. 10-424. - Suitability of land.
Land which the planning commission finds to be unsuitable for multifamily residential development due to flooding, improper drainage, topography, utility easement or other features shall not be developed unless adequate provision can be made for correcting any unsuitable conditions.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. II, § 4.2-5)
Sec. 10-425. - Expansion of existing multifamily residential developments.
A person, firm, or corporation desiring to expand an existing multifamily residential development to include more units than are accommodated within such development at the time the regulation from which this article is derived is adopted shall submit plans and specifications for such improvements to the county planning commission for approval prior to initiating construction and improvements. Improvements, reconstruction and redesign of existing developments required by the planning commission, shall conform to these regulations and shall be limited to those necessary to make access, utility service and design of both old and new portion of the development compatible.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. II, § 4.2-6)
Sec. 10-426. - Conformance to standards for public health and environmental protection.
The developer, insofar as such regulations may pertain to his particular project, is responsible for meeting all applicable federal, state, and county regulations concerning the provision of safe drinking water, sewage treatment, erosion and sedimentation control, mosquito control, and impacts on wetlands and waters of the state.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. II, § 4.2-7)
Sec. 10-427. - Variance procedure.
Where, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site, strict adherence to the provisions of this article would cause an unnecessary hardship, the planning commission may authorize a variance, if such variance can be made without destroying the intent of the multifamily housing regulations. Variances must be entered in writing in the minutes of the planning commission and the reason for said variance set forth.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. II, § 4.2-8)
Secs. 10-428—10-452. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - MULTIFAMILY HOUSING REVIEW PROCEDURE AND REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 10-453. - Review and approval of plats.
The submission, distribution, review and approval of preliminary and final plats for proposed new or expanded multifamily residential developments shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of article III of chapter 34 (the county subdivision regulations). Preliminary and final plans shall conform to the requirements set out in chapter 22, division 2 (the county manufactured home and travel trailer regulations) except that where these requirements call for specific information about manufactured housing stands, information on the number and configuration of multifamily dwellings shall be provided, in its place.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. III, § 4.3-1)
Secs. 10-454—10-474. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - DESIGN STANDARDS

Sec. 10-475. - Allowable development density.
In keeping with the county's goal of providing a wide range of affordable housing types, these regulations provide for the development of different housing types at varying densities. Although development at urban densities (greater than 12 units/acre) is not seen as desirable in the unincorporated county, a wide range of lower allowable densities is provided. A major limitation on density, independent of dwelling type, is the availability of water and sanitary sewer service. Without community water and sewage treatment systems, county health department regulations (Rule III) require that all dwellings using both individual wells and septic tanks shall have usable lot areas of at least 40,000 square feet. Table 4.1 lists allowable densities and minimum lot sizes by housing type and available utilities. (For comparison, see also Table 3.2 which lists allowable densities and lot sizes for manufactured housing.) In addition, any bunk style temporary or permanent housing must also meet the density requirements of the county department of health.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. IV, § 4.4-1)
Sec. 10-476. - Interior access.
All streets and parking areas within a multifamily rental or condominium apartment development shall be privately owned, constructed, and maintained. Such private streets shall be well drained, provided with a minimum hard surface of 14 feet for one-way streets, and 20 feet for two-way streets, with on street parking prohibited, and meeting the standards established by the governing authority.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. IV, § 4.4-2)
Sec. 10-477. - Parking.
Each multifamily dwelling unit shall be provided with a minimum of two off-street parking spaces. Parking on the interior streets within a development is hereby prohibited.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. IV, § 4.4-3)
Sec. 10-478. - Utility placement.
All water, sewer, or gas lines shall be buried a minimum of 12 inches below the finished ground surface of the development and shall be provided with an adequate valve system to allow the cutoff of utility service to each individual dwelling unit and at the entrance of the utility system into the development. If overhead lines are provided within the development such lines shall be a minimum of 15 feet above the grade of the interior streets and so placed that no wires extend over individual dwelling units.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. IV, § 4.4-4)
Sec. 10-479. - Mail facilities.
It shall be the responsibility of the developer to provide an approved mail delivery box for each dwelling unit. For any development with a density of seven units per acre or greater, a cluster mailbox, of a design approved by the United States Postal Service, shall be provided at a central location to serve the residents of the community. The developer is encouraged to consult with local postal authorities as to the best type of box to be used and where it may be located to best serve the proposed community.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. IV, § 4.4-5)
Sec. 10-480. - Lighting.
All recreation areas, community entrances, community streets, and pedestrian easements shall be illuminated to at least 0.3 foot-candles by properly shielded lighting fixtures.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. IV, § 4.4-6)
Sec. 10-481. - Garbage and refuse.
Multifamily rental developments shall be provided with a garbage collection service which maintains a collection schedule of at least two collections per week. Adequate containers maintained in a rodent-proof and vermin-proof condition shall be easily accessible to each dwelling unit and in sufficient number and placement to service all residents of the development. Refuse collection shall also be provided on a weekly basis to remove debris from the development.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 4, art. IV, § 4.4-7)
Secs. 10-482—10-500. - Reserved.
