ARTICLE XI. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS AND REGISTRATION[12]

Footnotes:
--- (12) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 2014 Ga. Laws, page 3781, to provide for the Board of Elections and Registration for Early County. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Authority to create a board of elections and registration, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-40(b).

Section 1. -
(a)
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Board" means the Early County Board of Elections and Registration.
(2)
"Commissioners" means the Early County Board of Commissioners.
(3)
"County" means Early County.
(b)
The terms "election," "elector," "primary," and "public office" shall have the same meanings as ascribed to such terms by O.C.G.A. § 21-2-2, unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this Act.
Section 2. -
Pursuant to subsection (b) of O.C.G.A. § 21-2-40, there is created and established a board of elections and registration for Early County which shall have jurisdiction over the conduct of primaries and elections and the registration of electors in the county in accordance with the provisions of this Act. Such board shall be known as the "Early County Board of Elections and Registration." The board shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities of the superintendent of elections of Early County under Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the Georgia Election Code, currently being exercised by the judge of the Probate Court of Early County, and the powers, duties and responsibilities of the Board of Registrars of Early County under Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the Georgia Election Code. It is the purpose and intention of this Act to grant the Early County Board of Elections and Registration all powers, duties, and responsibilities relating to the registration of voters and the preparation, conduct and administration of primaries and elections in and for Early County.
Section 3. -
The board shall be composed of five members, each of whom shall be an elector and resident of Early County and who shall be appointed by the governing authority of the county in the following manner:
(1)
The initial members of the board shall be appointed for terms of office beginning January 1, 2015. The commissioners shall appoint four members of the board. The commissioners in odd-numbered districts, Districts 1 and 3, shall designate two of the initial members to serve for terms ending on December 31, 2018. Commissioners in even-numbered districts, Districts 2 and 4, shall designate two of the initial members to serve for terms ending on December 31, 2017. They shall serve until their respective successors are duly appointed and qualified;
(2)
The fifth member shall be designated as supervisor of registration and elections and shall be appointed by the Early County administrator in consultation with the county commission chairperson. Such member shall be the administrator and chairperson of the board, shall carry out all duties of voter registration and elections, shall be a full-time employee of the county, and shall not have a regular term of office;
(3)
No person who holds or qualifies as a candidate for elective public office shall be eligible to serve as a member of the board during the term of such elective office, and the position of any such member shall be deemed vacant upon such member's qualifying as a candidate for elective public office;
(4)
Successors shall be appointed in the manner specified in this section for the appointment of the member who is being succeeded. Members shall be eligible to succeed themselves and shall have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of resignation to the governing authority and to the clerk of the Superior Court of Early County. Members shall be subject to removal from the board at any time, for cause, after notice and hearing by the appointing authority; and
(5)
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any member other than the supervisor of registration and elections before the expiration of that member's term of office, whether by removal, death, resignation or otherwise, the respective appointing authority shall appoint a successor to serve the remainder of the unexpired term and until a successor is duly appointed and qualified.
Section 4. -
(a)
The appointment of each member shall be made by the commissioners filing an affidavit with the clerk of the Superior Court of Early County no later than 30 days preceding the date upon which such member is to take office, stating the name and residential address of the person appointed and certifying such member has been duly appointed as provided in this Act. The clerk of the superior court shall record each of such certifications on the minutes of the superior court and shall certify the name of each such appointed member to the Secretary of State and provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members within the same time and in the same manner as provided by general state law for registrars.
(b)
In the event the commissioners do not certify in conformity with this Act an appointment to the board within 60 days after the beginning of a term or within 60 days after the creation of a vacancy on the board, the judge of the Probate Court of Early County shall immediately fill the vacancy by making the appointment, and shall certify it as provided in this section. Any person appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve out the unexpired term.
Section 5. -
(a)
The supervisor of registration and elections shall serve as a member of the board. Such supervisor shall be considered a county employee for purposes of pay, benefits, vacation, termination of employment and other purposes. Such supervisor shall be subject to direction, evaluation and corrective action by the county administrator.
(b)
The compensation of the supervisor of registration and elections shall be fixed by the governing authority of the county in the same manner as other county employees.
(c)
The supervisor of registration and elections may recommend to the county administrator for employment such full-time or part-time employees as may be deemed necessary and as approved in the annual budget approved by the governing authority of the county.
(d)
The supervisor of registration and elections and the board shall be responsible for the selection, appointment, and training of poll workers in primaries and elections.
Section 6. -
(a)
The board shall be authorized and empowered to organize itself, determine procedural rules and regulations, adopt bylaws and otherwise take action as is appropriate to the management of the affairs committed to its supervision; provided, however, that no such action shall conflict with state law. Actions and decisions by the board shall be by majority vote of the members of the board.
(b)
Board members function as working members. With the consent of the governing authority of the county, the board shall be authorized to expend public funds for the purpose of distributing sample ballots, voter information booklets and other materials designed to inform and adequately instruct the electors of the county with regard to elections. No material distributed by the board shall contain or express in any manner any commentary or expression of opinion or request support for any political issue or matter of political concern.
(c)
The compensation of members of the board, clerical assistants and other employees shall be fixed by the governing authority of the county and shall be paid from county funds.
(d)
Before entering upon a member's duties, each board member shall take substantially the same oath as required by general state law for registrars, and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
Section 7. -
The board may hold regular meetings at the county courthouse, the county administration public meeting room or any other locations as the board may prescribe. Meetings shall be held only after proper notice, including date, time and place, is communicated by public notice as required by law. All meetings of the board shall be conducted pursuant to Chapter 14 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A., relating to open meetings.
State Law reference— Open meeting requirements, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.
Section 8. -
The commissioners shall provide the board and supervisor of registration and elections with suitable offices and equipment and with other employees as the governing authority shall deem appropriate.
Section 9. -
On January 1, 2015, the elections superintendent of Early County and the board of registrars of Early County shall be relieved of all powers and duties to which the board succeeds by provisions of this Act. Prior thereto, they shall deliver to the board's supervisor of registration and elections, upon written request, custody of all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, registrations and facilities of every kind pertaining to the powers, duties and responsibilities such abolished board and superintendent had immediately prior to their abolition.
Section 10. -
The commissioners shall have the authority to contract with any municipality located within the county for the holding by the board of any primary or election to be conducted within the municipality. Nothing in this Act shall be construed to require or prohibit joint primaries or elections.
