ARTICLE V. - FINANCE
CHAPTER 1. - BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING

Sec. 5-101. - Budget preparation and submission.
(a)
On or before the second regular meeting of city council during the month of April of each year, the city manager shall submit to the city council a budget for the ensuing fiscal year and an accompanying message so that city council can approve the budget by the first city council meeting in June.
(b)
The city manager's message shall explain the budget both in fiscal terms and in terms of the work programs. It shall outline the proposed financial policies of the city for the ensuing fiscal year, describe the important features of the budget, indicate any major changes from the current year and financial policies, expenditures, and revenues together with the reasons for such changes, summarize the city's debt position, and include such other material as the city manager deems desirable.
(c)
The budget shall provide a complete financial plan of all city funds and activities for the ensuing fiscal year and, except as required by law or this charter, shall be in such form as the city manager deems desirable or the city council may require. In organizing the budget, the city manager shall utilize the most feasible combination of expenditure classification by fund, organization unit, program purpose of activity, and object. It shall begin with a clear general summary of its contents; shall show in detail all estimated income, indicating the proposed property tax levy and all proposed expenditures including debt service, for the ensuing fiscal year; and shall be so arranged so as to show comparative figures for actual and estimated income and expenditures of the current fiscal year and actual income and expenditures of the preceding fiscal year. It shall indicate in separate sections:
(1)
Proposed expenditures for current operations during the ensuing fiscal year detailed by offices, departments, and agencies in terms of their respective work programs and method of financing such expenditures;
(2)
Proposed capital expenditures during the ensuing fiscal year detailed by offices, departments, and agencies, when practicable, and the proposed method of financing each such capital expenditure; and
(3)
Anticipated net surplus or deficit for the ensuing fiscal year of each utility owned or operated by the city and the proposed method of its disposition. Subsidiary budgets for each such utility giving detailed income and expenditure information shall be attached as appendices to the budget. The total proposed expenditure shall not exceed the total of estimated income.
Sec. 5-102. - Budget action.
(a)
Notice and hearing. The city council shall publish, in one or more newspapers of general circulation of the city, the general summary of the budget in a notice stating:
(1)
The times and places where copies of the message and budget are available for inspection by the public; and
(2)
The time and place, not less than two weeks after such publication, for a public hearing on the budget.
(b)
Amendment before adoption. After the public hearing, the city council may adopt the budget with or without amendment. In amending the budget, it may add or increase programs or amounts and may delete or decrease any programs or amounts, except expenditures required by law or for debt service or for estimated cash deficit; provided, however, that no amendment to the budget shall increase the authorized expenditures to an amount greater than the total of estimated income.
(c)
Adoption. The city council shall adopt the budget on or before the first meeting of June. If it fails to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for current operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items in it prorated accordingly, until such time as the city council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Adoption of the budget shall constitute appropriations of the amounts specified therein as expenditures from the funds indicated and shall constitute a levy of the property tax therein proposed.
Sec. 5-103. - Budget amendment.
(a)
Supplemental appropriations. If, during the fiscal year, the city manager certifies that there are available for appropriation revenues in excess of those estimated in the budget, the city council by ordinance may make supplemental appropriations for the year up to the amount of such excess.
(b)
Emergency appropriations. To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property, or the public peace, the city council may make emergency appropriations. Such appropriations may be made by ordinance. To the extent that there are no available unappropriated revenues to meet such appropriations, the city council may by such emergency ordinance authorize the issuance of emergency notes which may be renewed from time to time, but the emergency notes and renewals of any fiscal year shall be paid not later than the last day of the fiscal year next succeeding that in which the emergency appropriation was made.
(c)
Reduction of appropriations. If, at any time during the fiscal year, it appears probable to the city manager that the revenues available will be insufficient to meet the amount appropriated, the city manager shall report to the city council without delay, indicating the estimated amount of the deficit, any remedial action taken by the city manager, and his or her recommendations as to any other steps to be taken. The city council shall then take such further action as it deems necessary to prevent or minimize any deficit, and for that purpose, it may by ordinance reduce one or more appropriations.
(d)
Transfer of appropriations. At any time during the fiscal year, the city manager may transfer part or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance among programs within a department, office, or agency. The city manager shall not transfer part or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance from one department, office, or agency to another, unless such transfer has been approved by an ordinance enacted by the city council.
(e)
Limitations; effective date. No appropriation for debt service shall be reduced or transferred, and no appropriation shall be reduced below any amount required by law to be appropriated or by more than the amount of the unencumbered balance thereof. The supplemental and emergency appropriations and reduction or transfer of appropriations authorized by this section may be made effective immediately upon adoption.
Sec. 5-104. - Capital budget.
(a)
On or before the date that is three months prior to the final date for submission of the budget, the city manager shall submit to the city council a proposed capital improvements plan with a recommended capital budget containing the means of financing the improvements proposed for the ensuing fiscal year. The city council shall have power to accept, with or without amendments, or reject the proposed plan and proposed budget. The city council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work, or improvement, unless the appropriations for such project are included in the capital budget, except to meet a public emergency as provided in section 2-203.
(b)
The city council shall adopt by ordinance the final capital budget for the ensuing fiscal year on or before the first meeting of the city council in June of each year. No appropriation provided for in a prior capital budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided, however, that the city manager may submit amendments to the capital budget at any time during the fiscal year, accompanied by recommendations. Any such amendments to the capital budget shall become effective only upon adoption by ordinance.
Sec. 5-105. - Disclosure of unfunded capital projects.
The city council shall be required to disclose publicly by the attachment of an addendum to the capital budget adopted each year a listing of all capital projects set forth in the prior year budget that have not been funded by the city government.
Sec. 5-106. - Fiscal controls.
(a)
Separate fund accounting. The city manager shall ensure that separate accounts and accounting are maintained by each fund of the city, including the general fund, the municipal utility fund, and all enterprise funds.
(b)
Contingency and reserve account. There shall be no expenditure of any funds from a contingency or reserve fund account, unless such expenditure has been approved by the council.
(c)
Liquidation of city term investments. There shall be no liquidation of city term investments, unless such liquidation has been approved by the council.
Sec. 5-107. - Fiscal year.
The city council shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. This fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department, agency, and activity of the city government.
Sec. 5-108. - Independent audit.
There shall be an annual independent audit of all city accounts, funds, and financial transactions by a certified public accountant selected by the city council. The audit shall be conducted according to generally accepted auditing principles. Any audit of any funds by the state or federal governments may be accepted as satisfying the provisions of this section. Copies of annual audit reports shall be available at printing costs to the public.
CHAPTER 2. - REVENUE AND TAXATION

Sec. 5-201. - Tax levy.
The city council shall levy by ordinance such taxes as are necessary to provide for the operation, maintenance, support, and expenses of the city and its various functions and departments, including such taxes as are necessary for the payment of the principal and interest of the bonded indebtedness and related sinking funds of the city as the same shall become due and payable. The taxes and tax rates set by such ordinance shall be such that reasonable estimates of revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, fund balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual operating budget and current year capital budget for defraying the expenses of the general government of this city.
Sec. 5-202. - Property tax; millage rate limitation.
The city council may assess, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city that is subject to such taxation by the state and county. This tax shall not exceed 15 mills on each dollar of taxable value. This tax shall be for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, of providing governmental services, for the repayment of principal and interest on general obligations, and for any other public purpose as determined by the city council in its discretion.
Sec. 5-203. - Occupation and business taxes.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to levy such occupation or business taxes as are not denied by law. The city council may classify businesses, occupations, or professions for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful and may compel the payment of such taxes. If unpaid, such taxes shall be collected as provided in section 5-209 of this charter.
Sec. 5-204. - Regulatory fees; permits.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to require businesses or practitioners doing business within this city to obtain a permit for such activity from the city and pay a reasonable regulatory fee for such permit as provided by general law. Such fees shall reflect the reasonably estimated cost to the city of regulating the activity. If unpaid, such taxes shall be collected as provided in section 5-209 of this charter.
Sec. 5-205. - Franchises.
(a)
The city council shall have the power to grant franchises for the use of this city's streets and alleys for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, electric membership corporations, cable television and other telecommunications companies, gas companies, transportation companies, and other similar organizations. The city council shall determine the duration, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration for such franchises; provided, however, that no franchise shall be granted for a period in excess of 35 years and no franchise be granted unless the city receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The city council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the city clerk in a registration book kept by the clerk. The city council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
(b)
If no franchise agreement is in effect, the city council shall have the authority to impose a tax on gross receipts for the use of this city's streets and alleys for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, electric membership corporations, cable television and other telecommunications companies, gas companies, transportation companies, and other similar organizations. If unpaid, such taxes shall be collected as provided in section 5-209 of this charter.
Sec. 5-206. - Service charges.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewers, sanitary and health services, or any other services provided or made available within and without the corporate limits of the city for the reasonably estimated cost to the city of providing or making available such services. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in section 5-209 of this charter.
Sec. 5-207. - Special assessments.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to assess and collect the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances from the abutting property owners under such terms and conditions as are reasonable. If unpaid, such assessments shall be collected as provided in section 5-209 of this charter.
Sec. 5-208. - Construction; other taxes and fees.
This city shall be empowered to levy any other tax or fee allowed now or hereafter by law, and the specific mention of any right, power, or authority in this chapter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of this city to govern its local affairs.
Sec. 5-209. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The city council by ordinance may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, charges, assessments, or other revenue due the city under this chapter by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by law. This shall include providing for the dates when the taxes or fees are due, late penalties or interest, issuance and execution of fi. fas., creation and priority of liens, making delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes or fees imposed, revoking city permits for failure to pay any city taxes or fees, and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions.
Sec. 5-210. - Tax commissioner.
The city council may establish the position of tax commissioner of the city. The tax commissioner's duties and functions shall include the following: to receive tax returns, assess unreturned property and property returned at less than its fair market value after notice to the owner to return his or her unreturned property or correct his or her erroneous or false return and after affording such property owner an opportunity to be heard; collect all property taxes and promptly pay over the same to the city treasurer; equalize taxes; determine, subject to revision by the board of tax assessors, the value for taxation of all real and personal property subject to taxation within said city; seek out and return or cause unreturned properties to be returned and assessed for taxation from the best information that can reasonably be secured from the most reliable sources as determined by the tax commissioner; issue and file for record on the general execution docket tax fi. fas. for taxes not paid when due; and proceed at once to collect same by placing such fi. fas. in the hands of the city marshal for prompt collection by levy and sale, and such tax commissioner may sue at law or in equity for such taxes; provided, however, that such tax fi. fas. may be sold and transferred by the city marshal for the full amount of taxes and accrued interest and costs. Said commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be incidental to his or her office or the duties hereof and such others as may be required by ordinance. The city council may contract with the Fulton County Tax Commissioner to authorize such official to exercise such powers of the city tax commissioner as are permitted and necessary to assess and collect city ad valorem taxes.
Sec. 5-211. - Tax exemptions.
Exemption for elderly and disabled residents.
Each resident of the city who is 70 years of age or older or who is disabled shall be granted an exemption from all ad valorem taxes levied for city government purposes, including ad valorem taxes levied to pay interest on and retire bonded indebtedness of the city government, for the full value of the homestead owned and occupied by such resident if such resident's adjusted gross income, together with the adjusted gross income of the resident's spouse who also resides at such homestead, does not exceed the maximum amount which may be received by an individual and an individual's spouse under the federal Social Security Act. As used in this subsection, the term "adjusted gross income" shall have the same meaning as defined in the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, except that for the purposes of this subsection, the term shall include only that portion of income or benefits received as retirement, survivor, or disability benefits under the federal Social Security Act or under any other public or private retirement, disability, or pension system which exceeds the maximum amount which may be received by an individual and an individual's spouse under the federal Social Security Act. The homestead exemption provided for in this Act shall not apply to any state ad valorem taxes or to any ad valorem taxes levied for the Fulton County School District. In order to qualify for the exemption for disabled residents provided for in this subsection, the person claiming such exemption shall be required to obtain a certificate from not more than three physicians licensed to practice medicine under Chapter 34 of Title 43 of the O.C.G.A., or such applicable laws as are or may be hereafter enacted, certifying that in the opinion of such physician or physicians, such person is mentally or physically incapacitated to the extent that such person is unable to be gainfully employed and that such incapacity is likely to be permanent. A person shall not receive the homestead exemption granted by this section unless the person or person's agent files an affidavit with the tax commissioner giving the person's age or, if disabled, the certificate or certificates required by this section and the amount of income which the person and the person's spouse received during the last taxable year for income tax purposes and such additional information relative to receiving such exemption as will enable the tax commissioner to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to such exemption. The tax commissioner shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose. After a person has filed the proper affidavit and certificate or certificates, if disabled, as provided in this subsection, it shall not be necessary to make application and file the said affidavit and certificate thereafter for any year, and the exemption shall continue to be allowed to such person. It shall be the duty of any such person to notify the tax commissioner in the event such person becomes ineligible for any reason to receive the homestead exemption granted by this subsection. The homestead exemption granted by this subsection shall be cumulative of any other homestead exemption applicable to the city's ad valorem taxes. The homestead exemption granted by this subsection shall be a restatement and continuation of the homestead exemption created by Ga. L. 1994, p. 5048.
CHAPTER 3. - BORROWING

Sec. 5-301. - General obligation bonds.
The city council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized under this charter or the laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuance by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Sec. 5-302. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the city council as state law now or hereafter provided. Such bonds shall be paid out of any revenue produced by the project, program, or venture for which they were issued.
Sec. 5-303. - Short-term loans.
The city may obtain short-term loans and shall repay such loans no later than December 31 of each year, unless otherwise provided by law.
Sec. 5-304. - Lease-purchase contracts.
The city may enter into multiyear lease, purchase, or lease purchase contracts for the acquisition of goods, materials, real and personal property, services, and supplies, provided that the contract terminates without further obligation on the part of the municipality at the close of the calendar year in which it was executed and at the close of each succeeding calendar year for which it may be renewed. Contracts shall be executed in accordance with the requirements of Code Section 36-60-13 of the O.C.G.A. or other such applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
CHAPTER 4. - PROCUREMENT AND DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY

Sec. 5-401. - Contracting procedures.
No contract with the city shall be binding on the city unless:
(1)
It is in writing;
(2)
It is drawn by or submitted and reviewed by the city attorney and, as a matter of course, is signed by the city attorney to indicate such drafting or review;
(3)
It is reviewed as to substance by the city manager or the director of the department most affected by the contract, signed by the city manager or director of such city department to indicate approval as to substance of the contract, and is signed by the mayor; and
(4)
If it involves the expenditure of more than $25,000.00, it is authorized by the city council, and such approval is entered in the city council journal of proceedings.
Sec. 5-402. - Centralized purchasing.
The city council shall by ordinance prescribe procedures for a system of centralized purchasing for the city, including comprehensive bidding procedures for the purchase of assets and the award of contracts; provided, however, that unless otherwise required by law, purchases or contracts involving the expenditure of more than $25,000.00 shall require city council approval.
Sec. 5-403. - Sale and lease of city property.
(a)
The city council may sell and convey or lease any real or personal property owned or held by the city for governmental or other purposes as now or hereafter provided by law.
(b)
The city council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the city manager and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending, or widening any street, avenue, alley, or public place of the city, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the city council may authorize the city manager to sell and convey said cutoff or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners where such sale and conveyance facilitates the enjoyment of the highest and best use of the abutting owner's property. Included in the sales contract shall be a provision for the rights of way of said street, avenue, alley, or public place. Each abutting property owner shall be notified of the availability of the property and given the opportunity to purchase said property under such terms and conditions as set out by ordinance. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
