ARTICLE II. - SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS

Sec. 4-30. - Scope of article.
In addition to the business and occupational license requirements of this Code and article I of this chapter, the following sections shall apply to the licensing and sale of spirituous liquor in the city, and should any section of this article conflict with other provisions in this chapter or the general business license requirements of this Code, then this article shall control.
(Ord. No. 2023, Att. 1; 4-10-2023)
Sec. 4-31. - Posting of chapter provisions.
All holders of spirituous liquor licenses shall keep a copy of this chapter posted in the licensed premises and shall thoroughly familiarize themselves and thoroughly instruct each employee of the establishment with respect to the terms hereof.
(Ord. No. 2023, Att. 1; 4-10-2023)
Sec. 4-32. - Posting of signs prohibiting sales to minors.
The holder of any spirituous liquor licenses shall post in a conspicuous place in the licensed premises a sign printed in letters at least four inches high reading: "Sale of Alcoholic Beverages to Minors Prohibited," and specify age of minors.
(Ord. No. 2023, Att. 1; 4-10-2023)
Sec. 4-33. - Limitation on sale or transfer of business and license.
It shall be unlawful and shall call for immediate revocation of all licenses involved, both of seller and purchaser, for any spirituous liquor licensee to purchase the business or license of any other such licensee in excess of two and attempt to operate the purchased business in addition to the businesses operated by the purchaser. In the event of a bona fide sale of any business under this article to persons other than other such licensed dealers, full disclosure of the persons involved, the purchase price, and any other information as is required by this Code for a new license shall be filed with the city clerk as a condition to any sale. In addition to the revocation of the license of any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this section, that person, firm or corporation, and/or its officers and agents, shall be subject to punishment in the municipal court as for other violations of this Code.
(Ord. No. 2023, Att. 1; 4-10-2023)
Sec. 4-34. - Limitation on types of establishments permitted for consumption on the premises.
No spirituous liquors may be sold by the drink for consumption on the premises unless the business or proposed business to be licensed is a bona fide restaurant, hotel, or private club.
(1)
Restaurant shall mean any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are served and where meals are actually and regularly served, such place having a seating capacity of at least 50 people, and a full-service and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook, and serve suitable food for its guests. The serving of such meals shall account for at least 75 percent of revenues with the serving of spiritous liquors to be consumed on the premises as only incidental thereto.
(2)
Hotel shall mean a building or other structure providing sleeping accommodations for hire to the general public, either transient, permanent or residential. Such hotels shall have a minimum of 50 rooms available for hire. Hotels shall be licensed to serve liquor by the drink in any dining room with meals or operate a lounge in which drinks are served. A lounge shall be a separate room or building connected with and a part of the hotel. There shall be no additional license fee for a lounge. Hotels shall have the privilege of granting franchises for operation of any licensed establishment herein and the holder of the franchise shall be included in the definition of hotel hereunder. Motels meeting the same qualifications set out herein for hotels shall be classified in the same category as hotels.
(3)
Private club shall mean a nonprofit corporation or association organized under the laws of this state, which:
a.
Has been in existence at least one year prior to the filing of its application for a license to be issued pursuant to this chapter.
b.
Has at least 25 regular dues-paying members.
c.
Owns, hires or leases a building or space within a building for the reasonable use of its members with suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment and sufficient number of employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guests.
d.
Has no member, officer, agent or employee directly or indirectly receiving, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profit from the sale of alcoholic beverages, beyond a fixed salary. "Fixed salary" means the amount of compensation paid any member, officer, agent or employee of a bona fide club as may be fixed for such person by its members at a prior annual meeting or by the governing body of the organization out of the general revenue of the club and shall not include any commission on any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages. For the purpose of this definition, tips or gratuities which are added to the bills under club regulation, will not be considered to be from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(4)
Nightclub shall mean an establishment having a seating capacity of at least 50 persons (with all booths and tables being unobstructed and open to view) and providing a band and/or other professional entertainment a minimum of 20 days per month with the exception of holidays, vacations and periods of redecorating, and which shall maintain an adequate kitchen with a sufficient number of servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its patrons. The principal business of such nightclubs shall be entertainment, and the serving of food and spirituous liquors shall be incidental thereto.
(Ord. No. 2023, Att. 1; 4-10-2023)
Sec. 4-35. - Requirements as to building for consumption on the premises.
No spirituous liquor may be sold by the drink for consumption on the premises unless the building in which the business will be located is complete and a legal description and detailed plans of said building and outside premises are attached to the application, or unless proposed plans and specifications and a building permit of a proposed building to be built are attached to the application. The completed building or proposed building shall comply with all local building codes and other applicable regulations of the state revenue commissioner and the laws of the state. The proposed building shall also be subject to final inspection and approval when completed. Each building in which the business will be located shall contain sufficient lighting so that the building itself and the premises on all sides of the building are readily visible at all times from the front of the street on which the building is located so as to reveal all of the outside premises of such building. Each applicant shall attach to the application evidence of ownership of the building or proposed building or a copy of the lease if the applicant is leasing the building. If the applicant is a franchisee, then such applicant shall attach a copy of the franchise agreement or contract with the application. All premises for which said license shall be issued shall afford therein adequate sanitary toilet facilities and shall be adequately illuminated so that all hallways, passageways, and open areas may be clearly seen by the customers therein. The seating area of such a building or portion thereof where spirituous liquor is served shall be determined by standards of the National Fire Code, with a minimum of 750 square feet and shall contain seating for a minimum of 50 patrons. The maximum occupant load of such a building shall be determined by using National Fire Code standards, as amended, and shall be posted over every entrance and exit.
(Ord. No. 2023, Att. 1; 4-10-2023)
Secs. 4-36—4-38. - Reserved.
