ARTICLE III. - BEER AND WINE

Sec. 4-39. - Scope of article.
In addition to the general business and occupational license requirements of this Code and article I of this chapter, the following sections shall apply to the licensing and operation of retail malt beverage or vinous liquor establishments in the city; and should any section of this article conflict with other provisions in this chapter or the general business license requirements of this Code, then this article shall control.
(Ord. No. 2023, Att. 1; 4-10-2023)
Sec. 4-40. - Posting of chapter provisions.
All holders of licenses issued under this article shall keep a copy of this chapter posted in the licensed premises at all times and shall thoroughly familiarize themselves and thoroughly instruct each employee of the establishment with respect to the applicable provisions hereof.
(Ord. No. 2023, Att. 1; 4-10-2023)
Sec. 4-41. - Licenses and fees required.
Licenses required for beer and wine sold and manufactured. No malt beverage, vinous liquors, spirituous liquors or any other alcoholic beverage shall be sold or manufactured in the city except under a license issued under this chapter by the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 2023, Att. 1; 4-10-2023)
Sec. 4-42. - License application; granting or denying; renewals.
Beer, wine, or beer and wine license may obtain the proper application form at the city hall. This application must be filled out completely and returned to the city hall, along with a certified check payable to the city, in an amount equal to the fees for the license applied for. The city council shall have 90 days to grant or deny the license and its decision shall be final. In the event that an application is denied, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant. However, the amount of money spent by the city to investigate an application may be deducted from the amount of license fees refunded to the applicant. In no event shall the city withhold an amount greater than $100.00 as charges for investigating an application. Renewals shall be as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2023, Att. 1; 4-10-2023)
Sec. 4-43. - Persons and establishments ineligible for license.
When contrary to the public interest and welfare, no license to sell alcoholic beverages of any kind shall be issued by the city to or for:
(1)
Any person determined by the city by reason of such person's business experience, financial standing, trade associations, personal associations, record of arrest or reputation in any community in which he has resided is not likely to maintain the operation for which he is seeking a license in conformity with federal, state or local laws, rules and regulations.
(2)
Any person who has been convicted under any federal, state or local law of any felony or crime involving moral turpitude within ten years immediately preceding the filing of application for such license.
(3)
Any person convicted under any federal, state or local law of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude including, but not limited to, those involving alcoholic beverages, gambling or tax law violations if such conviction tends to indicate that the applicant will not maintain the operation for which he is seeking a license in conformity with federal, state or local laws, rules and regulations.
(4)
A location not suitable in the judgment and discretion of the city because of traffic congestion, general character of the neighborhood or by reason of the effect which such an establishment would have on the adjacent and surrounding properties or on the neighborhood.
(5)
A location at which a previous alcoholic beverage license has been revoked or suspended and where, in the judgment of the city, the problems which have arisen from the operation of an alcoholic beverage license at such location indicate that it is not in the interest of public health, safety, welfare or morals that the sale of alcoholic beverages be permitted at such location.
(6)
Which the granting of such license would constitute a violation of state law or regulations.
(7)
Any person who is an official of or employee of the city.
(8)
Any person to operate a restaurant or club. Consumption on the premises sales shall be made in no other places or establishments.
(9)
All licensed establishments must have and continuously maintain in the county a registered agent upon whom any process, notice or demand required or permitted by law or under this chapter to be served upon the licensee or owner may be served. This person must be a resident of the county. The licensee shall file the name of such agent, along with the written consent of such agent with the application.
(10)
A license application may be denied to any applicant for any alcoholic beverage license where it appears that the applicant would not have adequate financial participation in the proposed business to direct and manage its affairs or where it appears that the application is intended to be a mere surrogate for a person who would not otherwise qualify for a license for any reason whatsoever.
a.
Before the city shall deny any application for a license or shall revoke any existing license, the applicant or licensee, as the case may be, shall be given notice in writing from the city clerk to show cause before the city council at a time and place specified therein not less than three days nor more than ten days from the date of service of the notice, why such application for license should not be denied or why such license should not be revoked, as the case may be, stating the grounds therefor and, at the appointed time and place, the applicant or licensee shall have an opportunity to show cause, if any exists, why such application should not be denied or such license revoked, after which the city shall take such action as it, in its judgment and discretion, shall deem warranted under the facts. The hearing on a revocation herein provided for need not be at a regular meeting of the city council but may be at such time and place as shall be fixed in the notice. All decisions denying, approving, suspending or revoking any permit, license or application shall be in writing with the reasons therefor stated and mailed or delivered to the applicant. In addition, at any hearing as provided herein, the party afforded the hearing shall have the opportunity to present evidence and cross examine opposing witnesses.
b.
Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city is a privilege and not a right and the issuance of a license hereunder shall not create any property rights in the license holder
(Ord. No. 2023, Att. 1; 4-10-2023)
Sec. 4-44. - Advertisements for beer and wine.
All establishments engaged in the sale of beer or wine shall may advertise in the following manner:
(1)
Each establishment shall be limited to one exterior or window sign advertising the sale of a particular brand or brands of beer, malt liquor or wine. This one sign shall not exceed four feet by six feet in size and may be single or double face in structure. The use of neon type signs is prohibited. Flashing signs are prohibited. A second sign advertising the name of business will be allowed. Beer and wine advertising will not be allowed in such second sign.
(2)
No establishment selling beer or wine may advertise these products by referring to them as "beer, malt liquor, or wine." However, they may refer to their products as beverages, alcoholic beverages, canned or bottled drinks and other such terms.
(Ord. No. 2023, Att. 1; 4-10-2023)
Sec. 4-45. - Revocation of license; hearing; examination of stock.
(a)
Any retailer who violates the regulations, local, state or federal, shall at the option of the city council have such retailer's local license revoked and at such time such retailer shall discontinue the sale of beer and wine.
(b)
The retailer shall have the right to appear before the city council in such retailer's own behalf should such license be challenged by the city.
(c)
The city reserves the right to examine the stock of beer and wine of any licensed business operated within the city at any time.
(Ord. No. 2023, Att. 1; 4-10-2023)
Sec. 4-46. - Location of establishments.
The location of establishments shall be as set forth in section 4-24.
(Ord. No. 2023, Att. 1; 4-10-2023)
Sec. 4-47. - Retail business zoning.
All licenses issued must be for retail businesses whose buildings or outlets lie within the commercial zone.
(Ord. No. 2023, Att. 1; 4-10-2023)
Sec. 4-48—4-50. - Reserved.
