CHAPTER 2. - CITY PROPERTY, FUNDS AND LABOR

Sec. 4-2001. - Article to control expenditures.
This article shall control the expenditure of all city funds from all sources whatsoever, including funds arising from city bonds.
(Code 1959, § 2-114)
Sec. 4-2002. - Buildings department; superintendent as head.
The head of the buildings department of the city shall be designated and classified as superintendent.
(Code 1959, § 2-115)
Sec. 4-2003. - Use of buildings and recreation centers—Permit.
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit the use of any city buildings or recreation centers except a financially responsible bona fide resident of the city to whom the permission may be granted only in writing by the director of parks and recreation which shall set forth the name and address of the financially responsible person granted the permission, and stating the time the building shall be used and by whom and for what purpose, and clearly stating that the person granted the permit shall be responsible for the building and the contents thereof.
(Code 1959, § 2-116)
Sec. 4-2004. - Same—Permission to use at night.
It shall be unlawful after 11:30 p.m. any night for any one (1) or more persons except police officers or parks personnel in the proper discharge of their duties to open or cause any city building or recreation center within any city park to be or remain open without first obtaining written permission from the director of parks and recreation; and all such persons permitted to use the buildings shall, before leaving the buildings, see that they are securely closed, and that all water, gas and lights are turned off therein before leaving the building.
(Code 1959, § 2-117)
Sec. 4-2005. - Same—Investigating at night after closing.
It shall be the duty of the chief of police or other police officer in charge of the police department to see each night that a police officer visits and investigates all recreation centers and public buildings within the public parks of the city between 11:30 p.m. and 12:00 midnight each night to see that all of the buildings are closed, and that the person responsible for the buildings and their contents on each occasion the building and contents are used for any entertainment, dance, party, programs or exercise account for the contents of the buildings and for the condition of the building and its contents.
(Code 1959, § 2-118)
Sec. 4-2006. - Same—Authorized purpose only.
It shall be an offense punishable as prescribed in section 1-1006 for any person to use any city building for any purpose than the purpose for which the building is let to the person and the chief of police shall see that this section is faithfully enforced.
(Code 1959, § 2-119)
Sec. 4-2007. - Administrative procedures for the abandonment of city-owned rights-of-way, lanes and alleys.
Administrative procedures for the abandonment and disposal of city-owned rights-of-way, lanes and alleys are as follows:
(1)
All private requests to abandon city-owned rights-of-way, lanes and alleys shall be made in writing to the city manager.
(2)
Requests shall include the names and addresses of all property owners whose land abuts the subject property, and an acknowledgment to pay for the cost of title investigation, ordinance and deed preparation, and recording.
(3)
Upon a determination by the city manager as to the desirability of abandoning the subject property, applicant shall provide the city with a survey of the subject area and an appraisal suitable for determining the fair market value of each portion to be transferred to abutting property owners. A determination by the city manager or the receipt of a survey and appraisal shall not bind the city to pursue or complete the abandonment and transfer.
(4)
Upon a determination by city council that the property no longer serves any public purpose the property may be abandoned. The city manager is authorized to provide for the disposal of abandoned property in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 32-7-4 or other applicable law.
(Ord. No. 008-02, § 1, 5-20-02)
Secs. 4-2008—4-2010. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 1176-48, § 1, adopted Dec. 7, 1998, repealed former §§ 4-2007—4-2010 in their entirety which pertained to use of and fees for the use of the municipal auditorium and derived from the Code of 1959, §§ 2-12—2-122. Ord. No. 1176-48 enacted rules and fees for the use of the auditorium as Attachment A which has not been set out at length herein but is available in the office of the city clerk.
Sec. 4-2011. - Maintenance and cleaning of city buildings.
The maintenance and cleaning of all city buildings, except buildings housing the fire and police departments, shall be under the supervision and control of the director of parks and recreation provided, all carpenter work required in the maintenance of buildings under the control and supervision of the director of parks and recreation shall be done by the carpenter in the city building department, under similar supervision.
(Code 1959, § 2-123)
Sec. 4-2011.1. - Smoking, establishment of policy.
(1)
The mayor and council are dedicated to providing a health, comfortable and productive work environment for the city's employees and the general public. It shall therefore be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with the provisions of this section [Ordinance No. 1014-91] or any ordinance or resolution of the City of East Point establishing a smoking policy within the public areas of the city. It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that smoking in enumerated public places shall be a public nuisance and dangerous to the public health and that "No Smoking" and "Smoking Permitted" signs shall be posted in conspicuous places to assure notice. Smoking shall be generally not permitted in any public building and shall be generally permitted on any public grounds.
(2)
Smoking or the carrying of lighted tobacco or other substances in any form in areas designated "No Smoking," and the smoking or discarding of any lighted or smoldering substance in any place or area where "No Smoking" signs are posted is hereby prohibited and unlawful and any violation of this section shall be punishable as other offenses in the city court of East Point.
(3)
(a)
Departments will give this smoking policy wide dissemination to all employees.
(b)
Signs that are uniform in language and color shall be placed in all appropriate areas indicating "No Smoking" or "Smoking Permitted," as hereinafter designated by mayor and council.
(c)
All prospective new employees or appointees will be informed of this smoking policy prior to employment or appointment.
(Ord. No. 1014-91, § 1, 3-4-91)
Sec. 4-2012. - Custodian of keys to municipal building.
The city clerk shall be custodian of keys to the municipal building in which is located the office of the city clerk, and in which is located the council chamber of the city. It shall be the duty of every person to whom a key is issued under this section, upon suspension, discharge or removal from the service of the city to immediately surrender the key to the custodian.
(Code 1959, § 2-124)
Sec. 4-2013. - Duplicate keys.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made any duplicate of any key issued by the custodian under the provisions of section 4-2012, and in no case shall any key be duplicated except when authorized by the council. It shall be the duty of the custodian, however, to obtain for each lock where keys may be necessary, sufficient keys to have on hand two (2) keys in addition to those issued to persons authorized to use the offices.
(Code 1959, § 2-125)
Sec. 4-2014. - Borrowing, etc., of keys; meaning of section.
It shall be unlawful for any officer, agent or employee of the city to whom a key is issued to borrow, obtain, give, lend or use any key not previously issued to such person, officer, agent or employee, or which key was issued to another. The meaning of this section is that no person shall use any key except the key issued to him under authority of the council, and any effort to evade the provisions of this section by borrowing, lending, or giving a key or by using a key borrowed, loaned or otherwise obtained without express authority from the city council is unlawful.
(Code 1959, § 2-126)
Sec. 4-2015. - Loss or destruction of keys; temporary keys.
The loss or destruction of any key shall be immediately reported to the custodian by the person to whom the key was issued, whereupon it shall be the duty of the custodian to report this fact to the next regular meeting of the city council. The custodian may issue a temporary key to the person losing or destroying his key until the next regular meeting of the city council when such loss or destruction shall be reported to the council by the custodian. After consideration of the report of the custodian of the loss or destruction of the key, the council shall give direction in the premises as in its judgment the circumstances of the case may required.
(Code 1959, § 2-127)
Sec. 4-2016. - Explosives belonging to city.
(a)
Purchase order required. It shall be unlawful for any person to accept delivery of dynamite, detonation caps or other explosives without a purchase order from the purchasing department of the city.
(b)
Delivery transportation to filter plant. Wherever delivery from magazine is made, the explosives shall be transported immediately to the filter plant and properly sorted in the shelters provided therefor. Delivery shall be acknowledged in writing by the filter plant superintendent or other operator on duty at the time.
(c)
Duty of filter plant superintendent. It shall be the duty of the filter plant superintendent to keep all explosives of the city under lock and key, and to issue them to department heads or their authorized employees for the necessary use by the city.
(d)
Issuance; records. All materials shall be issued upon written receipts which shall state the location of the job in progress, and any unused explosives shall be properly returned to the storage houses and signed for by the operator in charge. The filter plant superintendent shall keep an accurate record of the materials on hand and used during any month so that proper reports can be made to the state fire marshal's office.
(e)
Authorized personnel. Each department head shall furnish the filter plant superintendent with the names of persons authorized to handle explosives and no other persons shall use explosives except under direct supervision of authorized persons.
(Code 1959, § 2-127.1)
Sec. 4-2017. - Use of city funds, property or services of personnel for private purposes prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for city funds, property or services of personnel to be used when or where it is primarily for the benefit of any private person as distinguished from the public. It shall likewise be unlawful for any private person to receive any city funds, property or services of city personnel under circumstances mentioned in this section.
(b)
Any person violating any provision of this section shall, upon conviction thereof in the city court be punished as provided in section 1-1006 and if the offender be an officer or employee of the city, the officer or employee shall, in addition to other penalties imposed, be subject to suspension, definite or indefinite, demotion, removal or discharge in the discretion of the city council.
(Code 1959, § 2-128)
Sec. 4-2018. - Donations of city property and funds to churches, etc., prohibited.
Donations and contributions of city property, funds and services to churches and religious organizations by the city are hereby prohibited, and it shall be unlawful for any city funds, services or property to be contributed, donated or given to any church, religious or sectarian body or institution.
(Code 1959, § 2-129)
Sec. 4-2019. - Purchase of property by city at marshal's sales.
In the event that the city shall purchase property at any sale conducted by the marshal, the city treasurer shall be placed in possession of the property.
(Code 1959, § 2-130)
Sec. 4-2020. - Executions in favor of city on perishable property.
Whenever any execution in favor of the city is levied upon perishable property or property the keeping of which is attended with expense, the levying officer shall apply to the proper court or officer authorized by law to grant an order permitting the same to be sold at once, and shall sell it as authorized by the order.
(Code 1959, § 2-131)
Sec. 4-2021. - Replevy of personal property levied upon by marshal.
Whenever any personal property has been levied upon by the marshal or tax commissioner by virtue of any execution in favor of the city, the marshal may, in his discretion, allow the defendant in fi. fa. to replevy the property under the same rules and conditions as prescribed for sheriffs and constables.
(Code 1959, § 2-132)
Sec. 4-2022. - Damage to city property; prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, damage, mar, destroy, deface, remove, sever, pull down, set fire to or carry away any furniture, fixtures, equipment, books, papers, records, magazines, periodicals, supplies or other property of the city or any agency thereof; or to cut, dig up, pull down, break, injure, damage, remove or carry away any of the shrubbery, hedges, flowers or trees about the public grounds, parks or buildings of the city.
(Code 1959, § 2-133)
Sec. 4-2023. - Same; liability for use of city buildings or property.
Any person using any city building or property shall be liable for any damages to the buildings as a result of the use.
(Code 1959, § 2-134)
Sec. 4-2024. - Sale of property; generally.
When it is deemed advisable to dispose of any personal property belonging to the city and used in the various departments thereof, or under the supervision of the council, the sale of the property shall be made by the purchasing agent. The purchasing agent shall confer with the head of the department selling the property, with the view to getting the best price possible in making the sale. This section is not intended to authorize the sale of the property without a resolution of the council, but where a resolution has, for any reason, provided for the sale of any such property belonging to the city, the sale of the property shall be supervised by the purchasing agent, acting with the proper official of the city familiar with and in charge of the property proposed to be sold.
(Code 1959, § 2-135)
Sec. 4-2025. - Same; or purchase where value exceeds $1,000.
Except as otherwise provided by law, no purchase or sale contract in excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) may be lawfully made by the city without first obtaining competitive sealed bids, unless an emergency makes it unwise to take necessary time to secure the bids. In all purchases the city shall accept the lowest and best bid if it accepts any, and in all sales by the city, the highest and best bid shall be accepted, if any are accepted; but the city shall in all cases reserve the right to reject any and all bids; provided, this section shall not apply to marshal's sales if an owner's right to redeem exists after the sale, but it shall apply to all public improvement contracts, and to all other real estate sales, but shall not apply to real estate purchases, nor to any other contract if its application thereto would clearly increase the city's cost. It shall not apply to contracts of employment. (See Act approved March 5, 1957, Ga. L. 1957).
(Code 1959, § 2-135.1)
Annotation: "This ordinance does not make it mandatory for the city to obtain competitive bids in all sales of real estate, and the ordinance does not apply to real estate purchases … The courts will not control the discretion of a municipality in disposing of its property unless such discretion is manifestly abused." Watson v. City of East Point 223 Ga. 185, 187 (1967)
Sec. 4-2026. - Same; worn out and useless property.
When any property owned by the city in the possession of its various departments has become worn out or useless, or has become junk or has been used to such an extent that it is advisable to dispose of same, the head of the department in charge of the property shall certify to the purchasing committee that certain itemized property is in possession of the department, and is no longer useful in the service of the city; and thereupon the purchasing agent shall, at public sale, sell the property and turn the proceeds thereof over to the city treasurer, crediting the department from which the property was obtained with the amount of same. No sale of the property shall be made by the purchasing agent where other provisions are made under other ordinances for the sales, but this section shall apply only to property of the kind named for the sale of which no provision is otherwise made; provided, however, the purchasing agent is hereby authorized to dispose of junk accumulated in the various departments to the best advantage of the city, by selling, trading or transferring to another department, whichever in his discretion will be most advantageous to the city.
(Code 1959, § 2-136)
Sec. 4-2027. - Same; advertisement; private sales.
All public sales by the purchasing agent shall be advertised at least one (1) time in the official newspaper of the city, and by posting a notice of the time, place and terms of sale and describing the property to be sold in at least three (3) public places in the city, including the bulletin board in the lobby of the city hall, provided, after a public offering of property for sale by the purchasing agent as provided in this section, it shall be lawful for the purchasing agent to sell at private sale under supervision of the purchasing committee of the city council if the price at the private sale is better than can be obtained at public auction.
(Code 1959, § 2-137)
