Chapter 10 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 30.
State Law reference— Authority to exercise animal control, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3); livestock running at large, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-1 et seq.; permitting dogs in heat to run at large, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-6; dangerous dog control law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; Georgia Animal Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.; control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.; cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4; liability of owner or keeper of vicious or dangerous animal for injuries caused by animal, O.C.G.A. § 51-2-7; dogfighting, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-37; sale of dog meat for human consumption prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 26-2-160; Dead Animal Disposal Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-5-1 et seq.; inoculation of dogs and cats against rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-9; rabies inoculation tags, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-6; animal bites, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-4; wild animals, O.C.G.A. § 27-5-4 et seq.; fish, O.C.G.A. § 27-4-30 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abuse or cruelty to animals or fowl means knowing and willful failure by an owner, or any other person charged with an animal's or fowl's care, to care for that animal or fowl in a humane manner, or, by act, omission or neglect, causing or inflicting unjustified physical suffering, pain, harm or death to an animal or fowl.
Animal means any and all types of animals, domesticated and wild, male and female, singular and plural.
Animal control officer means an individual selected by the board of commissioners of the county in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 4-8-22 to aid in the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
Animal establishment means any pet shop, grooming shop, animal auction, kennel, performing animal exhibition or animal shelter, except this term shall not include veterinary medical facilities, licensed research facilities, facilities operated by government agencies or licensed animal dealers regulated by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Animal shelter means a facility designated or recognized by the board of commissioners of the county for the purpose of impounding and/or caring for animals.
At large means off the premises and not under the immediate control of the owner or custodian of the animal.
Board of commissioners or board means the Putnam County Board of Commissioners.
Dangerous dog means any dog that, according to the records of an appropriate authority:
(1)
Inflicts a severe injury on a human being, domesticated animal or domesticated fowl, without provocation at any time after March 31, 1989; or
(2)
Aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the safety of humans, domesticated animals or domesticated fowl, without provocation after the dog has been classified as a potentially dangerous dog and after the owner has been notified of such classification.
Domesticated fowl means any and all birds, male and female, singular and plural, kept as pets or kept, maintained, bred or harvested for agricultural purposes.
Fowl means any and all birds, domesticated and wild, male and female, singular and plural.
Guard dog or attack dog means any dog which has been trained to attack persons or other animals independently or upon verbal approval command, and any dog which, while not so trained, is reasonably expected by the owner to perform as a guardian of the property upon and within which it is located.
Humane manner means care of an animal to include at least adequate heat, ventilation, sanitary shelter, wholesome food and clean water, consistent with the normal requirements and feeding habits of the animal's size, species and breed.
Kennel means an establishment kept for the purpose of breeding, selling or boarding more than three dogs or three cats, except litters of animals of not more than six months of age, for commercial purposes, or engaging in training of dogs or cats for commercial purposes.
Licensing authority means the county agency or designated representative thereof charged with administering the issuance and/or revocation of permits and licenses under the provisions of this chapter.
Neutered/spayed means rendered permanently incapable of reproduction.
Nuisance means a dog or cat which:
(1)
Damages, soils or defecates on private property other than the owner's, or on public walks and recreation areas, unless such waste is immediately removed and properly disposed of by the owner;
(2)
Causes a disturbance or annoyance to others by excessive barking or other noisemaking, or offensive odors;
(3)
Chases vehicles or molests, attacks or interferes with persons, domestic animals or domesticated fowl.
Owner means any natural person or any legal entity, including, but not limited to, a corporation, partnership, firm or trust owning, possessing, harboring, keeping or having custody or control of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog within the county, or who knowingly permits a dog or other animal to be harbored or kept, or has a dog or other animal in his care, or who permits a dog or other animal to remain on or about the premises.
Potentially dangerous dog means any dog, which without provocation, bites a human being, domesticated animal or domesticated fowl at any time after March 31, 1989. No dog shall be deemed to be a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog solely on incidents in which the dog:
(1)
Inflicts an injury upon a person when the dog is being used by a law enforcement officer in connection with the law enforcement officer's official duties; and
(2)
Inflicts an injury if the injury was sustained by a person who, at the time, was attacking the dog's owner or owner's family member, committing a willful trespass or other tort, or was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or had in the past been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the dog, or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
Proper enclosure means an enclosure for keeping a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog confined in a manner suitable to prevent the entry of young children and to prevent the dog from escaping. A proper enclosure shall have secure sides and a secure top; and if the dog is enclosed within a fence, all sides of the fence shall be of sufficient height and the bottom of the fence shall be constructed or secured in such a manner as to prevent the dog's escape either from over or from under the fence. All gates shall be constructed so that they are self-closing and self-latching. A proper enclosure also shall provide protection from the elements for the dog.
Records of an appropriate authority means records of any state, county or municipal law enforcement agency, records of any county or municipal animal control agency, county board of health, federal, state or local court, or an animal control officer as provided in this chapter or by the laws of the state.
Severe injury means any physical injury that results in broken bones, death, cosmetic surgery or lacerations requiring medical treatment.
(Res. of 8-16-1999, § 14-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 10-2. - Penalties for violations.
Any person that does anything prohibited by this chapter as it exists or as it may hereafter be amended, or who fails to do anything required by this chapter as it exists or as it may hereafter be amended, upon conviction of a violation, shall be subject to punishment as provided by law. Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable as a misdemeanor. Prosecution of violations of any provision of this chapter shall be pursuant to and in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.
(Res. of 8-16-1999, § 14-2)
Sec. 10-3. - City established as bird sanctuary.
The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is designated as a bird sanctuary.
(Code 1982, § 11-3-1)
Sec. 10-4. - Molesting birds and nests prohibited; exceptions.
It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or molest in any manner, any bird or wild fowl, or to rob or molest birds' nests or wild fowl nests, within the city; provided, however, if starlings or similar birds are found to be congregating in such numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or a menace to health and property in the opinion of the city authorities, then the city authorities shall meet with representatives of the audubon society, bird club, garden club, humane society or any such clubs as are found to exist in the city, after having given at least three days' notice of the time and place of the meeting to the representatives of such clubs. If as a result of the meeting no satisfactory alternative is found to abate the nuisance, the birds may be destroyed in such numbers and in such manner as is deemed advisable by the city authorities under the supervision of the police chief.
(Code 1982, § 11-3-2)
Sec. 10-5. - Fowl or livestock prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any owner or any person in control of any domestic fowl or livestock to have or keep any domestic fowl or livestock within the corporate limits of the city except for those owners or persons keeping said fowl or livestock on properties specifically zoned for that use.
(Code 1982, § 11-3-3; Res. of 4-18-2005)
Sec. 10-6. - Keeping of hogs.
No person shall have or keep any hog or pig in the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1982, § 11-3-4)
Sec. 10-7. - Sales or permitting exposure of animals with, or having been exposed to infectious disease.
Whoever within the corporate limits of the city, being the owner, or having the charge of any animal, knowing such animal to have any contagious or infectious disease, or to have been recently exposed thereto, sells, barters or disposes of the animal without first disclosing to the person to whom the animal is sold, bartered or disposed of, that the animal is so diseased, has been exposed or knowingly permits the animal to run at large, or knowing the animal to be diseased, knowingly allows the animal to come into contact with any such animal of another person without his knowledge or permission, shall be punished as provided by section 1-12.
(Code 1982, § 11-3-5)
Sec. 10-8. - Setting out poison.
Whoever within the corporate limits of the city, leaves or deposits any poison or any substance containing poison, in any common street, lane or thoroughfare of any kind, or in any yard or enclosure other than the yard or enclosure occupied or owned by that person, shall be punished as provided by section 1-12.
(Code 1982, § 11-3-6)
Sec. 10-9. - Permitting vicious animals to run at large prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person owning or keeping any vicious or dangerous animal to allow or permit the animal to run at large in the city. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of an offense punishable as prescribed by section 1-12.
(Code 1982, § 11-3-7)
Sec. 10-10. - Animal control officer; animal control board.
The city council may appoint an animal control officer who shall serve at the pleasure of the council. The animal control officer's compensation shall be established from time to time by the council. Primary responsibility for enforcement of this chapter shall be vested in the animal control officer. The council shall be authorized to create an "animal control board" which shall consist of residents of the city to serve without compensation for terms concurrent with those of the city council. The members shall be selected so that each of the ward districts is represented on the board by a resident of that district and one member shall be elected to represent the county at-large. So long as the Oconee Regional Humane Society, by whatever name it may be known, exists, at least one of its officers may be a member of the animal control board and shall serve as the at-large member. The animal control board shall have the authority granted to it by this section, by the city council and by state law. The city council shall have the authority to remove any member of the animal control board for cause and following a public hearing. In no event shall any member of the animal control board serve more than two consecutive four-year terms.
(Res. of 8-16-1999, § 14-3; Res. of 11-21-2000, § 14-3)
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-66 et seq.
Sec. 10-11. - Rabies vaccination required.
(a)
No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog or cat within the county unless such dog or cat is vaccinated for rabies.
(b)
All dogs and cats shall have a current vaccination for rabies by a licensed veterinarian.
(c)
A certificate of vaccination for rabies shall be issued to the owner of each animal vaccinated, along with a vaccination tag indicating the year in which it was issued.
(d)
Proof of current vaccination shall rest with the owner. The rabies tag shall be secured to a collar on dogs in a manner that it cannot easily be removed or lost.
(Res. of 8-16-1999, § 14-4; Res. of 11-21-2000, § 14-4)
Sec. 10-12. - Animals at large.
A person owning or having animals in his custody and control shall at all times control such animals so as to prevent the animals from going at large to the injury, nuisance or endangerment to the safety of others. Failure to do so shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Res. of 8-16-1999, § 14-5; Res. of 11-21-2000, § 14-5)
Sec. 10-13. - Impoundment by animal control officer.
The animal control officer shall be authorized but not required to impound animals not on the owner's or custodian's property. In lieu of impoundment, the animal control officer may issue a citation for violation of this chapter.
(Res. of 8-16-1999, § 14-6; Res. of 11-21-2000, § 14-6)
Sec. 10-14. - Impoundment by property owner or injured party.
Any person finding any animal upon his property may contact the animal control officer to impound said animal.
(Res. of 8-16-1999, § 14-7; Res. of 11-21-2000, § 14-7)
Sec. 10-15. - Impoundment—Liability for costs.
The owner of an animal impounded pursuant to this chapter shall be liable for the cost of maintenance of such animal during such impoundment. Such costs shall be set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk and shall be payable upon redemption of such animal.
(Res. of 8-16-1999, § 14-8; Res. of 11-21-2000, § 14-8)
Sec. 10-16. - Same—Disposition of unredeemed animals.
Any animal impounded under this chapter or otherwise in the control of the animal control officer and not redeemed within seven days following the date of its impoundment, in the case of an animal without indicia of ownership, or within five days after the owner is notified, in the case of an animal with indicia of ownership, may be disposed of by adoption or by euthanasia. An exception may be made when:
(1)
An animal is injured or sick and in the judgment of a licensed veterinarian employed by or under the control of the city council, cannot recover;
(2)
An animal has a condition that is highly contagious; or
(3)
When the cost of treating such animal would be prohibitive.
In those events, the veterinarian may decide immediate euthanasia is necessary. The animal control officer shall make a prompt and reasonable effort to locate and notify an impounded animal's owner in person or by certified mail, return receipt requested. The animal control officer will make every reasonable effort to find an acceptable adoptive home for animals in his control before considering euthanasia. No impounded animal shall be adopted until it has been given all appropriate shots and has been neutered or spayed in the case of an adult animal. An impounded animal who is available for adoption and is too young to be neutered or spayed may be adopted once it has been given all appropriate shots and the adoptive owner has agreed in writing to have the animal neutered or spayed within six months. Veterinarian charges shall be paid by the adoptive owner and such charges shall be set out in the fee schedule on file in the office of the city clerk and shall be payable upon adoption of such animal.
(Res. of 8-16-1999, § 14-9; Res. of 11-21-2000, § 14-9)
Sec. 10-17. - Abandonment or abuse of animals.
It shall be unlawful for anyone knowingly to abandon, abuse or fail to keep any domesticated animal or domesticated fowl in a humane manner within the city. Each animal so abandoned or abused, and each day the violation of this chapter exists, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Res. of 8-16-1999, § 14-10; Res. of 11-21-2000, § 14-10)
Secs. 10-18—10-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DANGEROUS DOGS

Secs. 10-36. - State law incorporated by reference.
OCGA §§ 4-8-22 through 4-8-30 is incorporated herein by reference thereto, except as set out in this article.
(Res. of 8-16-1999, § 14-41; Res. of 11-21-2000, § 14-41)
Sec. 10-37. - Notice to public of dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs.
It shall be the duty of each owner, tenant, or custodian of an enclosure or building within which a guard or attack dog, a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog is located to conspicuously post a notice on the outside of the enclosure or building. Said notice shall have six inch red or black letters on a white background and shall contain the following information: "WARNING: GUARD DOG", "WARNING: ATTACK DOG", "WARNING: DANGEROUS DOG" or "WARNING: POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG". In the case of a building, such notices shall be posted conspicuously upon such enclosure at a distance not greater than 50 feet apart as well as upon each and every entrance and exit. In the case of apartments, condominiums or businesses located within a larger building where the guard or attack dog is located within the apartment or building solely, this notice shall be conspicuously posted on or about every doorway.
(Res. of 8-16-1999, § 14-42; Res. of 11-21-2000, § 14-42)
Sec. 10-38. - Financial responsibility.
In addition to the requirements of OCGA § 4-8-25, the owner of a dangerous dog, guard dog or attack dog shall register said animals with the county clerk and present to the county clerk evidence of:
(1)
A policy of insurance in the amount of at least $50,000.00 issued by an insurer authorized to transact business in the state and insuring the owner of the dangerous dog against liability for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog; or
(2)
A surety bond in the amount of $50,000.00 or more issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in this state and payable to any person or persons injured by the dangerous dog.
(3)
Dogs owned by or used by law enforcement agencies are exempted from the provisions of this article.
(Res. of 8-16-1999, § 14-43; Res. of 11-21-2000, § 14-43)
Sec. 10-39. - Effective date; jurisdiction.
This chapter shall be effective immediately upon its enactment and passage by the city council. This chapter shall only apply to the incorporated areas of the city.
(Res. of 11-21-2000, § 14-43)
