PART I - CHARTER[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this part are selected provisions of the city's Charter as set forth in 1908 Ga. Laws, page 620, relating to operation of the municipal government and authority of the board of council. The section numbers correspond with the original Charter section designations. Amendments to the sections are indicated by parenthetical history notes. Provisions rendered obsolete, inapplicable or archaic because of home rule powers derived from Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ II and the Municipal Home Rule Act as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq. as well as provisions which may have been preempted by Ga. Const. art. III, § VI, ¶ IV have been omitted. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Municipal corporations generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-3-1 et seq.; incorporation of municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-31-1 et seq.; powers of municipal corporations generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-1 et seq.; The Municipal Home Rule Act of 1965, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; home rule for municipalities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ II.

Section 1. - Incorporation.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same, that the name of the corporation shall be "City of Eatonton," and by such, its corporate name, it shall have perpetual existence, shall sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, and do all other acts relating to its corporate capacity. It shall have and use a common seal, and shall succeed to all the rights and liabilities of the mayor and city council of Eatonton.
Section 2. - Corporate limits.
The corporate limits of the City of Eatonton shall mean and include the territory described as follows:
All of that property located in Putnam County, Georgia consisting of twelve thousand five hundred sixty six and thirty six one hundreds (12,566.36) acres more or less and being a circle with a radius of two and one half (2.5) miles and with a center point being located in the center of the courthouse square in the City of Eatonton, Georgia. The center point of the courthouse square is to be found by drawing a line from each corner of said square to the opposite corner of said square.
Section 3. - Composition of governing authority.
The municipal government shall consist of a mayor and seven (7) aldermen, elected from the city at large, and such other officers, servants and agents hereinafter enumerated as said mayor and aldermen shall, from time to time, lawfully elect or employ, or as shall be elected as hereinafter provided.
(1977 Ga. Laws, page 3236)
Section 4. - Board of council.
The mayor and aldermen shall constitute the board of council and shall be the supreme governing body, exercising all the powers herein conferred upon the corporation and not otherwise specifically delegated. The mayor shall receive a salary of not less than $350.00 per month, and the members of council shall receive salaries of $250.00 each per month, payable monthly, and such other actual expenses as they may incur in the performance of their official duties upon authorization or approval by the mayor and council.
(1952 Ga. Laws, page 2625; 1968 Ga. Laws, page 3518; 1977 Ga. Laws, page 3236)
Section 5. - Mayor's authority.
The mayor shall be elected by popular vote, as hereinafter prescribed, and shall hold office for four (4) years and until his successor is elected and qualified. He shall have authority:
(1)
To preside over any and all meetings of all the board of council, but not to vote therein except in elections and impeachments;
(2)
To call special meetings of the board of council whenever he may deem same necessary, provided, he shall be required to call a meeting of said board of council whenever three (3) aldermen shall so request in writing;
(3)
To have general oversight over all executive officers, employees or servants of the city, and in case of misconduct, or neglect of duty on the part of any such officer, employee or servant, he shall have power to suspend him, pending investigation by the board of council;
(4)
To preside in the municipal court of the said city, and to exercise all of the rights, privileges and powers hereinafter conferred upon the presiding officer of the said court;
(5)
To pardon offenders against the city ordinances, and to suspend, revoke or vacate any sentence of the municipal court of said city, four of the seven (7) aldermen approving such veto, suspension or reduction, whether imposed by himself, the mayor pro tem, or municipal court judge presiding in said court under the provisions of this act;
(6)
To exercise all other powers conferred upon him by this act, or which may hereafter be conferred upon him by ordinance of the said board of council not in conflict with this act.
(1977 Ga. Laws, page 3236)
Section 6. - Wards.
(a)
(I)
For the purpose of electing the aldermen of the City of Eatonton, said City is divided into four wards as follows:
WARD NUMBER ONE: the boundary of Ward One shall be a line beginning at a point where Georgia Highway 16, which is also known as Sumter Street, crosses the city limits on the East side of Eatonton, Georgia, and running in a western direction along said Highway 16 to a point where Highway 16 intersects with North Jefferson Ave.; thence north along North Jefferson to Imperial Mill Road; thence Northwest on Imperial Mills Road to Imperial Avenue Northwest; thence West to Godfrey Road NW; thence Northwest on Old Godfrey Road to a point where it intersects the City Limits; then in an eastern and Southern direction along the City Limits to a point which is the point of beginning.
WARD NUMBER TWO: the boundary of Ward Two shall be a line beginning at a point where Georgia Highway 16, which is also known as Sumter Street, crosses the City Limits on the East side of Eatonton, Georgia; then along the City Limits in a Southerly direction to a point where the City Limits intersect with Martin Luther King, Jr. Avenue, which is also known as Gholston Road; then in a Northwestern direction along Martin Luther King, Jr. Avenue where it intersects with Hogan Boulevard: thence West along Hogan to Jefferson Street; thence North on Jefferson to Pond Street; thence southwest on West Pond Street to Rock Lane; thence north on Rock Lane to Jefferson Avenue; thence North on North Jefferson to Sumter Street; thence East on Sumter Street and Georgia Highway 16 to the point of beginning.
WARD NUMBER THREE: the boundary line of Ward Three begins at a point where State Highway 16 also known as Marion Street intersects the City Limits on the western side of the City of Eatonton then runs in an eastern direction along said highway to Washington Ave.; thence South on Washington Ave. through Jefferson Ave. and onto Rock Lane until it intersects with W. Pond St.; thence West on Pond Street to Jefferson Street; thence South on Jefferson Street to Hogan Boulevard; thence East on Hogan Boulevard to Martin Luther King Drive; thence Southeast on Martin Luther King Drive to the City Limits; thence West and North along said City Limits to the point of beginning.
WARD NUMBER FOUR: the boundary line of Ward Four shall begin at a point where State Highway 16 also known as Marion Street intersects the City Limits on the western side of the City of Eatonton then in a Northern and eastern direction along said City Limits to a point where the City Limits intersect the Godfrey Highway; thence South on the Godfrey Highway to Imperial Avenue; thence East along Imperial Avenue to Imperial Mills Road Northwest; thence Southeast to N. Jefferson Ave.; thence south to S. Washington Ave.; thence North on Washington Street to Georgia Highway 16; thence West on Georgia Highway 16 to the City Limits and the point of beginning.
(II)
For the purposes of this paragraph [subsection] (a), boundary lines shall be the centerlines of the various roads, streets and railways mentioned in the boundary descriptions of the various wards.
(b)
The mayor and three aldermen elected at the general city election in 1990 shall serve for terms of office which expire December 31, 1995. At the general municipal election in 1995, the following shall be elected:
(I)
The mayor shall be elected at large by a majority of the qualified voters of the city voting in the election to serve for a four-year term of office which commences on January 1, 1996. The mayor shall serve until his successor is elected and qualified;
(II)
One alderman shall be elected by a majority of the qualified voters voting in Ward No. 1 and Ward No. 4 to serve for a four-year term of office which commences January 1, 1996. Such alderman elected shall serve until his successor is elected and qualified;
(III)
One alderman shall be elected by a majority of the qualified voters voting in Ward No. 2 and Ward No. 3 to serve for a four-year term of office which commences January 1, 1996. Such alderman elected shall serve until his successor is elected and qualified; and
(IV)
One alderman shall be elected at large by a majority of the qualified voters of the city voting in the election to serve for a four-year term of office which commences January 1, 1996. Such aldermen elected shall serve until his successor is elected and qualified.
Successors to said mayor and aldermen shall be elected at the general municipal election preceding the expiration of their terms of office to serve for terms of four years and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
(c)
At the city election to be held on the first Tuesday in August, 1992, one alderman shall be elected from each of the four wards. Each such alderman elected shall be a resident of the ward from which elected and shall be elected by a majority vote of the qualified voters residing in the ward and voting in such election. Such aldermen shall serve for terms of office which expire December 31, 1997. Successors to said aldermen elected from wards shall be elected at the general municipal election preceding the expiration of their terms of office to serve for terms of four years and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
(d)
The mayor and aldermen shall be elected pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1] the Georgia Municipal Election Code.
(e)
All vacancies in the offices of mayor and aldermen shall be filled by special elections; and the person elected at such special election shall fill out the remainder of the unexpired term of the officer he succeeds.
(Ord. of 6-3-2003; Res. of 11-6-2012)
Editor's note— Section 5 of 1977 Ga. Laws, page 3236 amended the original act by striking in its entirety the first paragraph of section 6.
