Chapter 46 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 46-1. - Adoption of uniform rules of the road.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 40-6-370, O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-1—40-6-395, known as the uniform rules of the road, are adopted as and for the traffic regulations of the county with like effect as if recited in this chapter.
State Law reference— Adoption of uniform rules of the road by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-372.
Sec. 46-2. - Possession of open containers of alcoholic beverages in vehicles.
(a)
As used in this section, the term "open containers" means any container which is immediately capable of being consumed from, or the seal of which has been broken.
(b)
It is unlawful and punishable as provided in this section for any person to possess an open container of an alcoholic beverage while operating a vehicle in the county or while a passenger in or on a vehicle being operated in the county.
(c)
An open container shall be considered to be in the possession of the operator of a vehicle if the container is not in the possession of a passenger and is not located in a locked glove compartment, locked trunk, or other locked nonpassenger area of the vehicle.
(d)
An open container shall be considered to be in the possession of a passenger of a vehicle if the container is in the physical control of the passenger.
(e)
This section shall not apply to:
(1)
A passenger of a vehicle in which the driver is operating the vehicle pursuant to a contract to provide transportation for passengers and such driver holds a valid chauffeur's license pursuant to state law.
(2)
A passenger of a bus in which the driver holds a valid chauffeur's license pursuant to state law or any other state.
(3)
A passenger of a self-contained motor home which is in excess of 21 feet in length.
(f)
Any person, operator of a vehicle, or passenger who violates this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-19.
(Ord. of 8-7-1989)
Sec. 46-3. - Parental responsibility.
It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor under the age of 16 years to permit, whether knowingly or through ineffective control or supervision, such minor to violate any provision of this chapter or state law regarding the operation of vehicles.
Sec. 46-4. - Temporary traffic regulations.
In cases where traffic upon the roads of the county may become congested upon occasions of parades, at theaters and other public assemblages where large numbers of vehicles are assembled, the sheriff may make temporary rules directing and regulating the traffic in these congested districts, and any person, who, after being warned of the temporary traffic regulations, shall violate them, shall be liable therefore as for other violations of this chapter.
Secs. 46-5—46-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OPERATION OF VEHICLES

Sec. 46-31. - General speed limit.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on any street or portion of a street in the county at a rate of speed greater than 30 miles per hour unless another speed limit is posted or otherwise designated for such street or portion of a street.
Sec. 46-32. - Maximum speed limits on specific streets.
The board of commissioners may alter the maximum speed limits established by section 46-31 on any street or portion of any street within the county in accordance with the provisions of state law. Whenever signs are posted giving notice of the maximum legal speed limit so established for a particular street or portion of a street, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any vehicle at a rate of speed in excess of such limit.
Sec. 46-33. - Traffic, speed zones; signs and traffic control devices.
(a)
Upon approval of the board of commissioners, the sheriff is authorized to designate and maintain by appropriate traffic control signs, markings and devices the following:
(1)
Crosswalks at intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway.
(2)
Other safety zones for pedestrians.
(3)
Traffic lanes.
(4)
Speed, parking, truck or other traffic control zones.
(5)
Stop, yield, one-way and other directional devices.
(6)
Any other sign, marking, device or zone necessary for orderly and safe conditions on the roads and streets of the county.
(b)
All traffic control signs, signals, devices and markings shall conform to specifications in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the state transportation board. All signs and signals required under this section for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout the county. All traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this section shall be official traffic control devices of the county.
(c)
The county clerk shall keep and maintain an accurate official map setting out all traffic zones, markings, signs and other traffic control devices. The map and any amendments or changes thereto shall be adopted by the board of commissioners and the map shall be known as the official traffic control map of the county. An official copy thereof shall be kept in the office of the county clerk, shall be available to the public, and copies certified by the county clerk shall be admissible in court as proof of the location of any traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device.
(d)
No person shall be charged with violating a traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device unless appropriate signs, markings or devices are in fact operating or in existence on the streets involved.
(e)
Any violation of any traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device established under this section shall be a violation of this section.
Sec. 46-34. - Speed detection devices.
(a)
The county is authorized to use speed detection devices for the purpose of traffic control on the roads and streets in the county.
(b)
Such speed detection devices shall be used only for the purpose of public safety and traffic control, and shall not be used for the purpose of raising revenue.
Sec. 46-35. - Covering of loads.
No person shall operate or load any vehicle on the public streets and roads of this county unless the vehicle is constructed, loaded and securely covered so as to prevent any of its load from dropping, escaping or shifting in such a manner as to create a safety hazard or in such a manner so as to litter the streets and roads of the county.
Sec. 46-36. - Parking in deceleration or acceleration lanes prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to park any automobile, truck, bus, truck tractor, trailer, tractor, trailer combination, motorcycle, moped, or other motor vehicle within or upon the deceleration or acceleration lanes lying in the county.
(b)
Deceleration and acceleration lanes shall be defined for the purpose of this section as those strips of pavement lying adjacent to and to the east of the northbound lanes of traffic and adjacent to and to the west of the southbound lanes of traffic which are not part of the regular roadway but afford access into and out of the driveways and side roads along the highway.
(c)
Violation of the provisions of this section shall be a violation of a county ordinance and shall be prosecuted in the municipal court. A violation of this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-19.
