Chapter 38 - ROADS[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 38-1—38-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - HAULING AND LOGGING
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 38-31. - Scope.
This article shall cover any person who uses a county right-of-way in carrying out its business by loading, transporting, or unloading materials of any nature whether on the road surface or a county right-of-way or crossing the unpaved portion of the right-of-way, including ditches or embankments.
Sec. 38-32. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Access site means any temporary roadway, drive, structure, fill or device, existing or constructed, that is used or employed for the purpose of crossing, travel upon or use of county road rights-of-way.
County right-of-way means the shoulder, front slope, ditch, drain and back slope, facility or any appurtenance of any county road.
County road means any county-owned or county-maintained highway, road, street, avenue, drive, detour or other way open to the public and intended or used for the passage of motor vehicles.
Harvester means any person involved in loading and hauling pulpwood, stone, fill dirt, or construction material or logging and timber operations coming under the provisions of this article.
Heavy equipment machinery and vehicles means any and all devices in, upon or by which any person or property may be transported or drawn, including, but not limited to, semitrailers, trailers, tractors and truck tractors; provided, however, that vehicles in use immediately for the control or extinguishing of wild fire shall be exempt from this article.
Loading and unloading shall be defined by their everyday meaning but also shall include any activity known as harvesting or mining of any product or material.
Operations means those activities contemplated by this article, including the loading or transporting of raw materials such as stone, timber, pulpwood, fill dirt, sand and construction material.
Operator means any person, and the officer's agents, and employees thereof, carrying out the activities contemplated by this article.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-4.
Sec. 38-33. - Penalty for violations.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be liable to a fine and/or injunctive relief or any other legal procedure authorized by law. Any fine imposed shall be as provided in section 1-19.
Sec. 38-34. - Inspection of site.
Upon completion of operations under this article, the operator shall give written or oral notification to the commissioners' office. The site shall be inspected by a county official from the commissioners' office or road department. This official shall provide notice of release of liability to the operator within ten days of notification of completion.
Sec. 38-35. - Exemptions.
Small and limited operations of less than three tons in load less than 48 hours in duration and using existing driveways may be exempted from the bonding requirements of this article within the reasonable discretion of the designated county official.
Sec. 38-36. - Liability.
Any provisions of this article notwithstanding, an applicant or operator shall be liable to the county for the full amount of any damages caused by such operations, the amount of bond notwithstanding.
Sec. 38-37. - Arbitration.
If the parties cannot agree on the amount of damages, then the applicant shall have the right to request arbitration in writing. The county shall choose one arbitrator and the operator shall choose the second, both of whom shall be residents of the county. Together, the two designees shall choose a third arbitrator who shall be a registered forester residing in the county or a county contiguous thereto. Within 30 days of their designation, such arbitration panel shall review the damages and render a decision which shall be subject to appeal to the county superior court.
Secs. 38-38—38-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - OPERATION REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 38-61. - Loading sites.
All harvesting, grading or loading shall be conducted at a loading site off of county rights-of-way and behind the established ditch line of county roads.
Sec. 38-62. - Ditches.
All ditches shall be kept clear of all debris or residue at all times to allow for proper drainage. Culverts shall be installed at temporary entrances, as needed, to facilitate proper drainage flow. The designated county official shall notify the operator of the requirement for a culvert based on good engineering and driveway maintenance practices.
Sec. 38-63. - Warning signs.
Any person operating on county rights-of-way shall be required to post warning signs at least 500 feet on both sides of a temporary driveway adequately warning oncoming traffic of persons, vehicles, equipment or machinery entering the roadway.
Sec. 38-64. - Roadway.
County roads shall be kept serviceable and open at all times for school buses, emergency vehicles, mail carriers and traffic of the general public. No equipment shall be parked on county roads.
Sec. 38-65. - Adjacent properties.
The operations will not unreasonably interfere with vehicular and pedestrian traffic and the means of ingress and egress from the affected and adjacent properties.
Sec. 38-66. - Removal of debris.
(a)
All individual property owners are prohibited from depositing all logs, limbs and other clearing debris deposited by hired logging firms clearing their individual properties in all county ditches and rights-of-way.
(b)
Should such debris be identified and not removed by the property owner, the county will remove such debris with the owner being billed for the expense to remove such clearing debris.
Secs. 38-67—38-75. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - TIMBER HARVESTING

Sec. 38-76. - Notification required.
(a)
The timber harvesting contractor shall give one day telephone notice and three-day written notification, via e-mail, via mail, or via in person, to the county administrator of Echols County, or his/her designee, of moving in equipment or cutting any trees, which are to be removed from the land where said trees are standing.
(b)
If the timber harvesting operator should elect to harvest more acres than the original notification, an additional notification form must be transmitted to the county administrator pursuant to the timeframe set out in subsection (a).
(Ord. of 2-5-2007)
Sec. 38-77. - Procedure and issuance and use of permits.
(a)
Upon proper notification permits shall be issued by Echols County without cost or fee.
(b)
The county administrator or his/her designee shall have the authority to suspend timber harvesting operations should the said operations have detrimental affect on the county's infrastructure. Notwithstanding, any damage to the county's infrastructure shall be repaid to the county's satisfaction by the timber harvesting operator at no cost to the county as soon as practical, not to exceed ten days from notification.
(c)
The timber harvesting operator shall be responsible for ensuring no limbs, trucks, equipment or brush resulting from the harvesting operation shall encroach on the county's right-of-way.
(d)
The timber harvesting operator must notify the county administrator within 24 hours of when operator moves off of the tract temporarily, when the operator returns to the tract and when the harvesting operation is completed.
(Ord. of 2-5-2007)
Sec. 38-78. - Compliance and penalties.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate provisions of the division shall be subject to a civil penalty of $50.00 per day for each day of such violation for a first offense. If violation is willful then the civil penalty shall be $250.00 per day. A second or subsequent offense shall be subject to a civil penalty of $1,000.00 per day, until the violation is corrected.
(Ord. of 2-5-2007)
Sec. 38-79. - Enforcement.
This division shall be enforced by the county administrator or his/her designee. Citations for violations may be issued by the county administrator or his/her designee, including any certified county law enforcement officer acting under the authority of the Echols County Sheriff. Citations for violations shall require appearance before the magistrate court of Echols County.
(Ord. of 2-5-2007)
