Chapter 10 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND EMERGENCY SERVICES
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Disaster means any natural, technological, civil emergency or threat thereof that causes or has the potential to cause damage of sufficient severity and magnitude to result in a declaration of a state of emergency declared by a county, the governor or the President of the United States.
Emergency means any natural or manmade event requiring the activation of the local emergency operations plan.
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation:
(1)
Firefighting services;
(2)
Police services (public safety);
(3)
Medical and health services;
(4)
Rescue;
(5)
Engineering;
(6)
Warning services;
(7)
Communications;
(8)
Defense from radiological, chemical, and other special weapons;
(9)
Evacuation of persons from stricken areas;
(10)
Emergency welfare services;
(11)
Emergency transportation;
(12)
Nuclear power plant protection;
(13)
Temporary restoration of public service utility services; and
(14)
Other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
Local emergency management director means the person nominated by the local governments and appointed by the state emergency management director to implement the local emergency operations plan.
State emergency management director means the person appointed by the governor to head the state emergency management agency.
(Ord. of 1-3-2009, § I)
State law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3 et seq.
Sec. 10-20. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this article, rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. of 1-3-2009, § VI)
Secs. 10-21—10-43. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 10-44. - Local organization.
It is the desire and intent of the city's governing officials that the city be a part of the county emergency management agency. The chairperson of the county commissioners, with the concurrence of the city mayor, shall nominate, for appointment by the state emergency management director, a director of the county emergency management agency. Upon appointment, the local emergency management agency director shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and operations of the local organization for emergency management, subject to the direction and control of the chairperson or city council and shall serve at the pleasure of such chairperson or city council. When appointed, the local emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of the city on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assist city officials in organizing city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with city and county departments, the county emergency operations plan for emergency functions. Such plan will be in consonance with the state emergency operations plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities within the county for approval, and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
Maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
Submit reports as required by governmental officials in keeping with good management practices (e.g., financial, daily activities, etc.).
(6)
Obtain, with the authority of the governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operations center.
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating staff during periods of emergency, and under the supervision of the county governing officials.
(Ord. of 1-3-2009, § II)
State law reference— Local organizations for emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 10-45. - County emergency management agency.
The county emergency management agency shall be established around existing city and county departments. The emergency support functions (ESFs) and department/agency assignments are as follows: The department/agency assignments listed in the following table are examples only. It is the responsibility of local governments to make assignments based upon local capabilities.
EXPAND
Emergency Support Function (ESF) Department/Agency
Transportation (P) County road department
(S) City public works
Communications (P) County 911/Dispatch
(S) City police department
Public works and engineering (P) County road department
(S) City public works
Firefighting (P) County fire department
(S) City fire department
Emergency management (P) County emergency management agency
(S) County/city governments
Mass care, housing and human services (P) County department of family and children services (DFACS)
(S) Red Cross chapter
Resource support (P) County emergency management
(S) County/city government
Public health and medical services (P) County public health
(S) Local hospitals
Search and rescue (P) County fire/rescue
(S) City fire/rescue
Hazardous materials (P) County fire department
(S) City fire department
Agricultural and natural resources (P) County extension agent
(S) County emergency management agency
Energy (P) County emergency management agency
(S) Local utilities
Public safety and security services (P) County sheriff
(S) City police department
Long-term recovery and mitigation (P) County emergency management agency
(S) County government
External affairs (P) County government public information officer (PIO)
(S) City government public information officer (PIO)
  Note—(P) means primary; (S) means secondary.
Note—As appropriate to the local organization, these functions can be assigned to existing departments or may be separate. Functions should be assigned consistent with the local emergency operations plan.
Note—Heads of the county departments listed in the table contained in this section are responsible for developing appropriate annexes and standard operating procedures (SOPs) to the emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes and/or SOPs will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Ord. of 1-3-2009, § III)
Sec. 10-46. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. of 1-3-2009, § V)
State law reference— Immunity of emergency management personnel, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-35.
