Chapter 20 - TRAFFIC CONTROL[1]

Sec. 20-1. - Uniform Rules of the Road adopted.
(a)
Adoption by reference. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-372 through 40-6-376, the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-1 through 40-6-395, excluding O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-393 and 40-6-394, known as the Uniform Rules of the Road, are hereby adopted as and for the traffic regulations of this municipality, with like effect as if recited in full herein.
(b)
Penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section shall be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-9.
(Prior Code, § 11-101)
Sec. 20-2. - Temporary traffic regulations.
In cases where traffic upon the roads of the city may become congested upon occasions of parades, at theaters and other public assemblages where large numbers of vehicles are assembled, a law enforcement officer may make temporary rules directing and regulating the traffic in these congested districts, and any person who, after being warned of the temporary traffic regulations, shall violate regulations, shall be liable therefor as for other violations of this chapter.
Sec. 20-3. - Traffic, speed, zones; signs and traffic control devices.
(a)
The city council will designate a person who shall be authorized to erect and maintain by appropriate traffic control signs, markings and devices:
(1)
Crosswalks at intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway.
(2)
Other safety zones for pedestrians.
(3)
Traffic lanes.
(4)
Speed, parking, truck or other traffic control zones.
(5)
Stop, yield, one-way and other directional devices.
(6)
Any other sign, marking, device or zone necessary for orderly and safe conditions on the roads and streets of the city.
(b)
All traffic control signs, signals, devices and markings shall conform to specifications in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the state transportation board. All signs and signals required under this chapter for a particular purpose shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the city. All traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this article shall be official traffic control devices of the city.
(c)
The city clerk shall keep and maintain an accurate official list setting out all traffic zones, markings, signs and other traffic control devices. The list, and any changes thereto, shall be approved by the city council and the list shall be known as the official traffic control list of the city. An official copy of this list shall be kept in the office of the city clerk; shall be available to the public; and copies certified by the city clerk shall be admissible in court as proof of the location of any traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device.
