Chapter 22 - UTILITIES[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Municipal water works.
The municipal water works shall be under the immediate control and supervision of the director of public works, who shall perform all acts that may be necessary for the prudent, efficient and economical management and protection of said water works, subject to the approval and confirmation of the mayor and council.
(Prior Code, § 20-101)
Sec. 22-2. - Inspections.
The director of public works, or his designated assistant or consultant, may enter the premises of any water taker at any reasonable time to examine the condition of the water pipes, meters and fixtures.
(Prior Code, § 20-102)
Sec. 22-3. - Application for water.
Application for the use of water shall be made to the city clerk by the owner or agent of the property to be benefited, designating the location of the property and stating the purpose for which the water may be required.
(Prior Code, § 20-103)
Sec. 22-4. - Tapping charge.
(a)
Upon the application for a new tap and service connection by any consumers within the corporate limits of the municipality, the applicant shall pay to the city clerk a tapping charge to cover the cost of the fittings, installation of the tap of the municipality, and 50 feet of pipe. Any length of service pipe in excess of 50 feet will be charged at cost. Businesses will pay the cost for a large meter. The amount of the tapping charge shall be as established by the city council, from time to time.
(b)
The municipality shall own and maintain the water line from the main to the curb box to the premises served.
(c)
All work upon the service line shall be performed by a licensed plumber.
(Prior Code, § 20-104; Prior Ord., § 20-104)
Sec. 22-5. - Size of service tap.
No service tap shall be more than three-fourths inch in diameter, provided that the director of public works may grant special permission for larger taps where the water supply and service facilities are sufficient to permit such taps. Where a larger tap is permitted, the director shall fix the tapping charge therefor.
(Prior Code, § 20-105)
Sec. 22-6. - Water meters.
Each building or structure using city water shall have a water meter installed by the city, which will be installed in a curb box. All such meters are the property of the city.
(Prior Code, § 20-106)
Sec. 22-7. - Service line regulations.
No more than one residential structure shall be permitted to use a water service line. All service lines shall be installed at a depth at least 40 inches below the surface of the ground. Each service line shall contain a stop and waste cock where the water may be turned off.
(Prior Code, § 20-107)
Sec. 22-8. - Water waste prohibition.
Consumers shall prevent unnecessary waste of water and keep all water outlets closed when not in actual use. Hydrants, urinals, water closets, bathtubs and other fixtures must not be left running for any purpose other than the use for which they were intended. When any such waste occurs, the water service may be terminated.
(Prior Code, § 20-108)
Sec. 22-9. - Sprinkling restrictions.
In case of water shortage or scarcity, the mayor and council may by resolution place any restrictions upon the use of water for irrigation or sprinkling purposes which such body deems necessary.
(Prior Code, § 20-109)
Sec. 22-10. - Use during fire alarms.
During all fire alarms the use by persons other than municipal firefighters of hoses and other apparatuses maintaining a constant flow of water is absolutely forbidden.
(Prior Code, § 20-110)
Sec. 22-11. - Water and sewer rates.
The water and sewer rates shall be as established by the city council, from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 20-111)
Sec. 22-12. - Water bills.
Water meters shall be read at the end of each month, or as nearly as possible, and bills shall be mailed on the first day of each succeeding month. All water bills shall be due on or before the tenth day of the month following the reading of the meter, and if not paid by the end of the tenth, a penalty of ten percent will be charged. If the bill is not paid by the 15th of the same month, a cutoff fee shall be added thereto and paid by the water user. The amount of the cutoff fee shall be as established by the city council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 20-112)
Sec. 22-13. - Discontinuance of service.
If any bill for water as provided in section 22-12 is not paid by the 15th of the month, the water service shall be cut off and in no case shall it be re-instated to the same property until the delinquencies shall have been paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 20-113)
Sec. 22-14. - Charges for turning water on.
(a)
If the water supply to any premises is turned off for failure of payment of the bill, a charge shall be made for turning the water back on. The amount of the charge shall be as established by the city council, from time to time.
(b)
Before the water is turned back on, the original bill, plus all penalties, must be paid to the city.
(Prior Code, § 20-114; Prior Ord., § 20-114(intro. ¶), (A))
Sec. 22-15. - Illegal use of water.
After a water meter is placed in service, regardless of ownership or other conditions unless under emergencies such as water leaks, no one shall move, tamper with, or cut off or cut on same; neither shall anyone bypass water around any meter under any condition. All private lines must have an individual cutoff. Any violation of any of this rule shall be considered sufficient evidence and reason for discontinuing service to the violator and any person found guilty of the violation of said rule shall be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-9.
(Prior Code, § 20-114; Prior Ord., § 20-114(B))
Secs. 22-16—22-33. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WELLHEAD PROTECTION

Sec. 22-34. - Short title and purpose.
(a)
This article is known as the "Wellhead Protection Ordinance."
(b)
The purpose of this article is to ensure the provision of a safe and sanitary drinking water supply for the city by the establishment of wellhead protection zones surrounding the wellheads/springs for all wells/springs which are the supply sources for the city water system and by the designation and regulation of property uses and conditions which may be maintained within such zones.
(Ord. of 10-1-2001, § 1)
Sec. 22-35. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Hazardous waste or material means any waste or material which, because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics, may:
(1)
Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in the serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness;
(2)
Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or to the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
Sanitary landfill means a disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible wastes, or hazardous wastes are disposed of on land by placing earth cover thereon.
Wellhead means the upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals, valves and other attachments.
(Ord. of 10-1-2001, § 2)
Sec. 22-36. - Establishment of wellhead protection zone.
There is hereby established a use district known as a wellhead protection zone, identified and described as all the area within a circle the center of any city water supply wellhead, the radius of which is 100 feet.
(Ord. of 10-1-2001, § 3)
Sec. 22-37. - Permitted uses.
The following uses shall be permitted within wellhead protection zones:
(1)
Any use permitted within existing agricultural or single-family residential districts, except that the minimum residential lot size for a lot any portion of which lies within the wellhead protection zone shall not be less than one acre; and
(2)
Any other open land use where any building located on property is incidental and accessory to the primary open land use.
(Ord. of 10-1-2001, § 4)
Sec. 22-38. - Prohibited uses.
The following uses of conditions shall be and are hereby prohibited within wellhead protection zones, whether or not such use or condition may otherwise be ordinarily included as a part of a use permitted under section 22-37:
(1)
Surface use or storage of hazardous material, expressly including commercial use of agricultural pesticides;
(2)
Septic tanks or drain fields appurtenant thereto;
(3)
Impervious surfaces other than roofs or buildings and streets, and driveways and walks serving buildings permitted under section 22-37;
(4)
Sanitary landfills;
(5)
Hazardous waste disposal sites;
(6)
Storm water infiltration basins;
(7)
Underground storage tanks;
(8)
Sanitary sewer lines within 150 feet of a wellhead.
(Ord. of 10-1-2001, § 5)
Sec. 22-39. - Administration.
The policies and procedures for administration of any wellhead protection zone established under this article, including without limitation those applicable to nonconforming uses, exceptions, enforcement and penalties, shall be the same as provided in the existing zoning ordinance for the city, as the same is presently enacted or may from time to time be amended.
(Ord. of 10-1-2001, § 6)
Secs. 22-40—22-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OUTDOOR WATERING

Sec. 22-66. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Address means the house number (a numeric or alphanumeric designation) that, together with the street name, describes a physical location of a specific property.
Even-numbered address means a house number ending with the number 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, or no house number.
Odd-numbered address means a house number ending in 1, 3, 5, 7, or 9.
Declared drought response level means one of four levels of drought that can be declared, based on the severity of drought conditions, with one being the least severe and four being the most severe.
(Ord. of 10-4-2004, § 1)
Sec. 22-67. - Penalties and violations.
Any person found in violation of this article shall be fined as follows:
(1)
First offense: A written warning.
(2)
Second offense: $50.00 fine.
(3)
Third offense: $100.00 fine.
(4)
Each additional offense will result in a $100.00 fine.
(Ord. of 10-4-2004, § 4)
Sec. 22-68. - Applicability of rule.
These rules apply to all water customers of the city as permitted by the state environmental protection division for water withdrawal.
(1)
Permitted outdoor water use during non-drought periods. Outdoor water use during non-drought periods other than exempted activities.
a.
Odd-numbered address outdoor water use is allowed Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays.
b.
Even-numbered address outdoor water use is allowed Mondays, Wednesdays, and Saturdays.
(2)
Drought response levels; period and use limitations. Outdoor water use schedule during the declared drought response levels will be declared by the director of the environmental protection division. Periods other than exempted activities shall occur only as follows:
a.
Declared water drought response level one. Outdoor water use may occur only as follows:
1.
Scheduled days for odd-numbered address: Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays.
2.
Scheduled days for even-numbered address: Mondays, Wednesdays and Saturdays.
3.
Use of hydrants for any use other than firefighting, public health, safety, or flushing is prohibited.
b.
Declared drought response level two. Outdoor water use may occur on scheduled days within the hours of 12:00 midnight and 10:00 a.m.
1.
Scheduled days for odd-numbered address: Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays.
2.
Scheduled days for even-numbered address: Mondays, Wednesdays, and Saturdays.
3.
The following uses are prohibited:
(i)
Using hydrants for any purpose other than firefighting, public health, safety or flushing.
(ii)
Washing hard surfaces, such as: streets, gutters, sidewalks, and driveways except when necessary for public health and safety.
c.
Declared drought response level three. Outdoor water use may occur on the scheduled day between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 10:00 a.m.
1.
Scheduled day for odd-numbered address is Sunday.
2.
Scheduled day for even-numbered address is Saturday.
3.
The following uses are prohibited:
(i)
Using hydrants for any purpose other than firefighting, public health, safety or flushing.
(ii)
Washing hard surfaces, such as streets, gutters, sidewalks, driveways, except when necessary for public health and safety.
(iii)
Filling installed swimming pools except when necessary for health care or structure integrity.
(iv)
Washing vehicles, such as cars, boats, trailers, motorbikes, airplanes, golf carts.
(v)
Washing buildings or structures except for immediate for protection.
(vi)
Noncommercial fundraisers, such as car washes.
(vii)
Using water for ornamental purposes, such as fountains, reflecting pools, and waterfalls except when necessary to support aquatic life.
d.
Declared drought response level four. No outdoor water use is allowed, other than for activities or as the EPD director may order.
(Ord. of 10-4-2004, § 2)
Sec. 22-69. - Exemptions.
(a)
This rule shall not apply to the following outdoor water uses:
(1)
Capture and reuse of cooling system condensation or stormwater in compliance with applicable local ordinances.
(2)
Reuse of gray water in compliance with applicable local ordinances.
(b)
The following established landscape water uses are exempt from the outdoor water use schedules of this rule: Irrigation of personal food gardens.
(c)
Newly (in place less than 30 days) installed landscapes are subject to the following:
(1)
Irrigation of newly installed landscapes is allowed any day of the week, but during allowed hours for the drought response level in effect, for a period of 30 days following installation. No watering is allowed during drought response level four.
(2)
For new landscapes installed by certified or licensed professional, commercial exemptions apply.
(Ord. of 10-4-2004, § 3)
