ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1919 Ga. Laws, page 646, which provides for the governing body of Emanuel County. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - [Creation.]
(a)
There is created a Board of Commissioners for Emanuel County.
(b)
Commissioners holding office on the effective date of this Act shall continue in office until the expiration of the terms for which they were elected.
(c)
The Board of Commissioners of Emanuel County shall be composed of five members elected from single-member districts. Such districts shall be known as Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. Each member from a district shall be elected by a majority of the votes cast by voters residing within the district. A member shall hold office for a term of four years and until a successor is elected and qualified. To qualify for election from a district, a candidate must be a resident of the district.
(d)
Emanuel County shall be divided into single-member commissioner election districts as follows:
(1)
District 1 shall have the following boundaries:
BEGINNING at the intersection of Lamb's Bridge Road and Industrial Way; thence North on Industrial Way to East Main Street (Ga. Hwy. 26); thence West on East Main Street to Georgia Highway 56; thence North on Georgia Highway 56 to the City limits of Swainsboro; thence following the City limits East to Canoochee Road to County Road 444; thence Northeast on County Road 444 to Flat Creek; thence North following Flat Creek to County Road 54; thence Northeast on County Road 54 to County Road 48; thence North on County Road 48 to County Road 3; thence West on County Road 48 to County Road 50; thence North on County Road 50 to County Road 58; thence West on County Road 58 to Georgia Highway 56; thence South on Georgia Highway 56 to County Road 67; thence South on County Road 67 to County Road 59; thence West on County Road 59 to County Road 93; thence South on County Road 93 to County Road 98; thence Southwest on County Road 98 to Georgia Highway 4; thence South on Georgia Highway 4 to northern City limits of Swainsboro; thence following City limits South to Gumlog Road; thence East on Gumlog Road to West Street; thence South on West Street to Robin Road; thence South on Race Track Street to Project Street; thence Northeast on Project Street to Lewis Street; thence South on Lewis Street to Lee Street; thence Northeast on Lee Street to Green Street; thence South on Green Street to Church Street; thence East on Church Street to North Main Street (Ga. Hwy. 4); thence North on Georgia Highway 4 to Modoc Road; thence Northeast on Modoc Road to Central of Georgia Railway; thence south following said Railway to Rentz Street; thence South on Rentz Street to Gumlog Street; thence West on Gumlog Street to North Coleman Street; thence South on Coleman Street to Mill Street; thence East on Mill Street to Central of Georgia Railway; thence South following said Railway to Lamb's Bridge Road; thence East on Lamb's Bridge Road to Industrial Way, which is the point of beginning.
(2)
District 2 shall have the following boundaries:
BEGINNING at the intersection of Lamb's Bridge Road and Industrial Way; thence West on Lamb's Bridge road to Central of Georgia Railway; thence North on said Railway to Mill Street; thence East on Mill Street to Coleman Street; thence North on Coleman Street to Gumlog Street; thence East on Gumlog Street to Rentz Street; thence North on Rentz Street to Central of Georgia Railway; thence North on said Railway to Modoc Road; thence West on Modoc Road to Georgia Highway 4; thence South on Georgia Highway 4 to Church Street; thence West on Church Street to Bell Street; thence South on Bell Street to West Pine Street; thence West on Pine Street to Roberts Street; thence South on Roberts Street to Moring Street; thence West on Moring Street (Ga. Hwy. 56) to City limits of Swainsboro; thence Southeast following City limits to Old Nunez Road; thence Southeast following City limits to Meadowlake Parkway; thence East on Meadowlake Parkway to Central of Georgia Railway; thence South on said Railway to Empire Expressway; thence Southwest on Empire Expressway to County Road 461; thence South on County Road 461 to Georgia Highway 297; thence North on Georgia Highway 297 to Georgia Highway 4; thence South on Georgia Highway 4 to County Road 198; thence East on County Road 198 to County Road 275; thence South on County Road 275 to County Road 278; thence North on County Road 278 to Big Canoochee Creek; thence Northeast following Big Canoochee Creek to County Road 454; thence East on County Road 454 to County Road 360; thence East-Northeast on County Road 360 to County Road 361; thence North on County Road 361 to Georgia Highway 26; thence West on Georgia Highway 26 to Big Canoochee Creek; thence North following Big Canoochee Creek to Flat Creek; thence North following Flat Creek to County Road 444; thence West on County Road 444 (Canoochee Road) to City limits of Swainsboro; thence North following City limits to Georgia Highway 56; thence South on Georgia Highway 56 to Georgia Highway 26; thence East on Georgia Highway 26 to Industrial Way; thence South on Industrial Way to Lamb's Bridge Road, which is the point of beginning.
(3)
District 3 shall have the following boundaries:
BEGINNING at the intersection of Church Street and Green Street inside the City limits of Swainsboro; thence North on Green Street to Lee Street; thence West on Lee Street to Lewis Street; thence North on Lewis Street to Project Street; thence West on Project Street to Race Track Street; thence Northwest on Race Track Street to Gumlog Road, using a portion of Sherouse Street and West Street; thence Northwest on Gumlog Road to the City limits; thence North following the City limits to Georgia Highway 4; thence North on Georgia Highway 4 to County Road 98; thence East on County Road 98 to County Road 102; thence West on County Road 102 to County Road 111; thence Southwest following County Road 111 to County Road 110; thence South on County Road 110 to Georgia Highway 57; thence Southeast on Georgia Highway 57 to Rocky Creek; thence Southwest following Rocky Creek to Little Ohoopee River; thence North-Northwest following the Little Ohoopee River to County Road 136; thence West on County Road 136 to County Road 138; thence South on County Road 138 to County Road 139; thence West on County Road 139 to County Road 136; thence West on County Road 136 to the County line; thence following the County line Southwest-South-Southeast to the intersection of Georgia Highway 297 and the Ohoopee River; thence following the Ohoopee River to Georgia Highway 4; thence North on Georgia Highway 4 to Georgia Highway 297; thence South on Georgia Highway 297 to County Road 461; thence North on County Road 461 to Empire Expressway; thence Northeast on Empire Expressway to Central of Georgia Railway; thence North following said Railway to Meadowlake Parkway; thence West on Meadowlake Parkway to Old Nunez Road; thence South on Old Nunez Road to the City limits; thence Northwest following the City limits to Georgia Highway 56; thence Northeast on Georgia Highway 56 (Moring Street) to Roberts Street; thence Northwest on Roberts Street to Pine Street; thence Northeast on Pine Street to Bell Street; thence Northwest on Bell Street to Church Street; thence Northeast on Church Street to Green Street, which is the point of beginning.
(4)
District 4 shall have the following boundaries:
BEGINNING at the point where County Road 304 meets the Bulloch County line; thence Northwest along the Bulloch County line to the Jenkins County line; thence Northwest along the Jenkins County line to the Burke County line; thence West following the Burke County line (Ogeechee River) to the Jefferson County line; thence Southwest along the Jefferson County line to the Johnson County line; thence South along the Johnson County line to the northern boundary of District 3; thence following the northern boundary of District 3 to where it meets the northern boundary of District 1; thence along the northern boundary of District 1 to where it meets the northern boundary of District 5; thence along the northern boundary of District 5 to the Bulloch County line, which is the point of beginning.
(5)
District 5 shall have the following boundaries:
BEGINNING at the intersection of Georgia Highway 297 South and the Ohoopee River; thence South on Georgia Highway 297 to Pendleton Creek (County line); thence Southeast on County line (Pendleton Creek partway) to Georgia Highway 4; thence East-Northeast from Georgia Highway 4, following County line to the Ohoopee River; thence North-Northeast, following the County line to County Road 304; thence Northwest on County Road 304 to Georgia Highway 121; thence South on Georgia Highway 121 to County Road 303; thence West on County Road 303 to a creek; thence North following said creek to County Road 310; thence West on County Road 310 to County Road 459; thence West on County Road 459 to Nathan Creek; thence North following Nathan Creek to County Road 330; thence South on County Road 330 to County Road 332; thence West on County Road 332 to County Road 331; thence Northwest on County Road 331 to Georgia Highway 192; thence South on Georgia Highway 192 to County Road 344; thence Northwest on County Road 344 to County Road 336; South on County Road 336 to County Road 347; thence South on County Road 347 to County Road 345; thence West on County Road 345 to Little Canoochee Creek; thence South on Little Canoochee Creek to County Road 361; thence South on County Road 361 to County Road 362; thence Westerly and Southerly on County Road 362 to County Road 278; thence South on County Road 278 to County Road 360; thence West on County Road 360 to County Road 454; thence West on County Road 454 to Big Canoochee Creek; thence South on Big Canoochee Creek to County Road 278; thence South on County Road 278 to County Road 275; thence West on County Road 275 to County Road 198; thence West on County Road 198 to Georgia Highway 4; thence South on Georgia Highway 4 to the Ohoopee River; thence West following the Ohoopee River to Georgia Highway 297, which is the point of beginning.
(e)
(1)
At the general election in 1984, commissioners shall be elected from District 1 and District 3 for terms of four years and until successors are elected and qualified. Thereafter, successors shall be likewise elected quadrennially and until successors are elected and qualified.
(2)
At the general election in 1986, commissioners shall be elected from District 2, District 4, and District 5 for terms of four years and until successors are elected and qualified. Thereafter, successors shall be likewise elected quadrennially and until successors are elected and qualified.
(3)
Terms of commissioners shall begin on January 1 following their election.
(1960 Ga. Laws, page 2360, § 1; 1962 Ga. Laws, page 2359, § 1; 1969 Ga. Laws, page 3124, § 1; 1984 Ga. Laws, page 3822, § 1)
Sec. 2. - Organization.
Be it further enacted, That on the first Monday of January, 1920, on which date or as soon thereafter as practicable, said board shall organize, with full power to act as Board of Commissioners of said county, exercising jurisdiction over all county matters set forth by general enactment, as well as all matters specially mentioned in this Act.
Sec. 3. - Oath.
Be it further enacted, That each of the persons herein appointed, or any other persons who may hereafter be elected as commissioners, shall before entering upon the performance of their duties, take and subscribe before the judge of the Superior Court of said county, or the Ordinary of said county, an oath to faithfully perform the duties of a Commissioner of Roads and Revenues under this Act and the laws of this State.
Sec. 4. - [Meetings.]
The board shall hold its regular meeting on the second Tuesday in each month at 10:00 A.M. at the courthouse or other convenient place in the City of Swainsboro. The board may change the time or date of its regular meeting by resolution of the board published once in the legal organ of the county. Special or called meetings may be held, provided that each member shall receive at least 24 hours' prior notice.
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 3822, § 2)
Sec. 5. - [Quorum.]
Three members of the board shall constitute the minimum number necessary to transact business at any regular or special meeting.
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 3822, § 3)
Sec. 6. - [Chairman.]
At the first meeting of each year, the board shall elect from its membership a chairman to serve for the ensuing year. The chairman shall preside at all meetings and sign as chairman all orders and processes of the board. The chairman shall be entitled to make or second motions and to cast a vote on any matter.
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 3822, § 4)
Sec. 7. - Jurisdiction.
Be it further enacted, that said Board of Commissioners shall have exclusive jurisdiction when sitting for county purposes, over the following subject matter, to wit:
(1)
In building, maintaining and controlling all property of the county as they may deem expedient according to the law.
(2)
In levying a general tax for general purposes, and special taxes for particular or special purposes, according to the provisions of the Code and special enactments of the General Assembly.
(3)
In establishing, altering, building and abolishing all public roads, bridges, and ferries in the County of Emanuel, in conformity to the law.
(4)
In establishing and changing election precincts and lines of militia districts.
(5)
In examining, settling and allowing all claims against the County of Emanuel.
(6)
In examining and auditing the accounts of all county officers who receive or pay out moneys of the county of [or] state, and concurrent jurisdiction in examining or reviewing, either by themselves or their appointees, all records of all county officers as required to be kept by law.
(7)
In making such rules and regulations for the support and maintenance of the poor of the County of Emanuel, and for the promotion of health, as are permitted by law and to them may seem right and proper.
(8)
And to regulate peddling and fix the cost of license therefor, not in conflict with law.
Sec. 8. - [Additional powers and jurisdiction.]
Be it further enacted that said commissioners shall furthermore have power to exercise exclusive and original jurisdiction and control in Emanuel County over all county matters that are now vested by law in the ordinaries of the various counties of the State, so far as relating to public roads, bridges, public buildings, property, misdemeanor convicts, management of the county jail and its fees, the control and maintenance of its paupers, assessing and collecting taxes, disbursing public money for county purposes and the execution of all laws in reference thereto.
Sec. 9. - Orders on treasurer.
Be it further enacted, that the treasurer of said county shall not disburse or pay out any of the funds from the county treasurer or any order, unless the same shall have been signed by the chairman of said board and the clerk; provided this shall not apply to jury script, and such orders drawn by the judge of the Superior Court, in which he has exclusive jurisdiction.
Sec. 10. - Commissioners' clerk, superintendent of roads and bridges, and attorney; records open for inspection.
Be it further enacted, that the Board of Commissioners may elect their own clerk, superintendent of roads and bridges, and attorney with such compensation as the board may allow, and it shall be the duty of said clerk to attend all meetings of the commissioners, and keep in a well-bound book, to be provided at the expense of the county, full and accurate records and minutes of all their transactions, to file in order of their dates, all original orders, vouchers and other papers, and to arrange and keep in order of their filing all petitions and applications and other papers addressed to said commissioners, and to record all orders given or approved by said commissioners for the payment of money by the county treasurer, and all books, files and records by this Act required to be used or kept, shall always be open at the county site for the inspection of any taxpayer of the county on demand.
(1937 Ga. Laws, page 1324, § 1; 1945 Ga. Laws, page 741, § 1)
Sec. 11. - Election term, and duties of superintendent.
Be it further enacted that said Board of Commissioners shall at their first regular meeting in January, 1920, or as soon thereafter as practicable, and every two years thereafter, elect a superintendent of roads and bridges to be selected on account of his efficiency, knowledge and skill in practicable road building, preference to be given to a civil engineer when he fully measures up to the other requirements. The superintendent may also be convict warden, but aside from his duties as warden, if elected to that position by said board, he shall not engage in any other business, trade or calling during his term of service. The superintendent shall have charge of laying out, building, repairing, improving and maintaining the public roads and bridges of Emanuel County under orders of Board of Commissioners. Said superintendent shall make request upon the clerk of said commissioners for all supplies needed in his department, said request to be in writing and filed with the clerk of said board on or before the regular meeting of the board in any month, and for all supplies and material received by the superintendent from the clerk, he shall give his receipt therefor.
Sec. 12. - Oath and bond of clerk.
Be it further enacted, that said Board of Commissioners shall require said clerk, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, to take the same oath taken by them, and enter into bond with good security, payable to said commissioners and their successors in office, conditioned to well and truly do and perform the duties of said office, such bond to be in the sum of two thousand dollars, and to be approved by said board.
Sec. 13. - Sheriff to attend meetings, etc.; bailiff.
Be it further enacted, that it shall be the duty of the sheriff of said county to attend all meetings of said board, and to serve all processes, orders, writs of notices issued by said board, for which service said sheriff shall receive such compensation as may be agreed upon by him and such board; provided, however, that if such board and the sheriff cannot agree as to the compensation he is to receive in said court, then said board shall have the right to appoint a special bailiff to serve them, paying him such compensation as they may deem just and right.
Sec. 14. - [Compensation.]
Each member of the board shall be compensated in the amount of $200.00 per month, except that the chairman shall be compensated in the amount of $500.00 per month and except that each member of the board elected to a new term of office after January 1, 1990, shall thereafter be compensated in the amount of $400.00 per month and each member elected as chairman of the board on or after January 1, 1991, shall thereafter be compensated in the amount of $700.00 per month during such person's term as chairman. Each member shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred while on official business of the board. All amounts shall be payable from funds of the county and be paid by the treasurer of the county on an order of the board signed by the chairman and the clerk. The commissioners shall be exempt from road, jury, and military duty and shall be subject to prosecution for malpractice in office in the same manner as magistrates.
(1953 Ga. Laws, page 675, § 1; 1971 Ga. Laws, page 2514, § 1; 1975 Ga. Laws, page 3843, § 1; 1984 Ga. Laws, page 3822, § 5; 1990 Ga. Laws, page 4324, § 1)
Sec. 15. - [Election.]
Be it further enacted that the members of the Board of Commissioners of roads and revenues shall be elected by the voters of Emanuel County at the general election each four years.
(1960 Ga. Laws, page 2360, § 2; 1962 Ga. Laws, page 2359, § 2; 1969 Ga. Laws, page 3124, § 2; 1984 Ga. Laws, page 3822, § 6)
Sec. 16. - [Vacancies.]
(a)
If a vacancy on the Board of Commissioners of Emanuel County occurs at any time except during the last six months of the term of office, the election superintendent of Emanuel County shall call and conduct a special election at the next date at which a special election may be called and conducted following that vacancy as provided by general law. The person elected to fill such vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term and until a successor is elected and qualified.
(b)
When a vacancy on such board occurs during the last six months of a term of office or when a vacancy exists on such board during the interim period between the creation of the vacancy and the election and qualification of a successor to fill the vacancy, the remaining members of the Board of Commissioners of Emanuel County shall constitute the governing authority of the county until a successor is elected and qualified at the next general election or special election, respectively, and until such successor is qualified.
(1962 Ga. Laws, page 2359, § 3; 1997 Ga. Laws, page 3637, § 1)
Sec. 17. - Commission.
Be it further enacted, that said commissioners shall be commissioned in the same manner as the justice of the peace.
Sec. 18. - Accounts.
Be it further enacted that all the acts and doings of said board shall at all times be open for the inspection of the public, and they shall cause each county officer who handles the funds of the county, to make an itemized showing to the grand jury twice each year, showing the money received and from what source, and all money paid out and for what purpose.
Sec. 19. - Quarterly reports.
Be it further enacted, that it shall be the duty of said Board of Commissioners to publish once every three months in the official organ of Emanuel County, a full, complete, itemized statement of their acts and doings, showing all money taken in by them, its source and disbursements, to whom paid and for what purpose; the cost of publishing such statement shall be paid out of the county treasury.
Sec. 20. - Chairman pro tem.
Be it further enacted, that whenever the chairman of said board may be absent one of the other members of said board shall act as chairman pro tem, and have all powers and rights of the regular chairman of said board.
Sec. 21. - Road districts.
Be it further enacted, that all road districts as laid out in the Act approved August 16, 1912, is hereby abolished.
Sec. 22. - Effective Jan. 1, 1920.
Be it further enacted, that none of the provisions of this Act shall go into force and effect until the first day of January, 1920.
