ARTICLE VII. - TAX COMMISSIONER[9]

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1943 Ga. Laws, page 961, which creates the office of Tax Commissioner for Emanuel County. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Tax receiver, tax collector abolished.
The offices of Tax-Receiver and Tax-Collector of Emanuel County, Georgia, are hereby abolished, and the duties of the two offices aforesaid are hereby consolidated into one office.
Sec. 2. - Tax commissioner created.
Be it further enacted by authority aforesaid, that the office of Tax-Commissioner of Emanuel County, Georgia, is hereby created in lieu of said abolished office and the rights, duties, and liabilities of said office of county Tax-Commissioner of Emanuel County, Georgia, shall be the same as the rights, duties, and liabilities of the tax-receiver and tax-collector of said county, so far as the same are applicable.
Sec. 3. - Term.
Said tax-commissioner shall hold a term of office for four years, the first term beginning January 1st, after the expiration of the term of office of the present tax-receiver and tax-collector.
Sec. 4. - Elected.
Said tax-commissioner shall be elected at the general election held in the State of Georgia on Tuesday after the first Tuesday in November preceding the expiration of the present terms of tax-receiver and tax-collector of Emanuel County, Georgia; and shall take office upon the expiration of the term of the present Tax-Receiver and Tax-Collector; and said tax-commissioner shall be elected at the general election each four years thereafter in the same manner, time, and place as the Clerks of the superior courts are elected.
Sec. 5. - [Qualification.]
Said tax-commissioner shall be commissioned and qualified as the clerks of the Superior Court are.
Sec. 6. - Vacancy.
If a vacancy for any cause occurs in said office of tax-commissioner, it shall be filled in the following manner:
(a)
If said vacancy occurs within six months of the expiration of the existing term, the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Emanuel County, Georgia, shall appoint some qualified person to discharge the duties of said consolidated office for the remainder of said term, and the person so appointed shall be commissioned and qualified as clerks of the superior court, and shall receive the pro rata of the compensation accruing to said office for the time so appointed.
(b)
If said vacancy occurs more than six months prior to the expiration of the existing term, the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Emanuel County, Georgia, shall appoint some qualified person to discharge the duties of said consolidated office until a tax-commissioner is elected, and it shall be the duty of the Ordinary of Emanuel County to call a special election for the election of a Tax-Commissioner to serve the remainder of said term, which election shall be ordered not sooner than 20 days and not later than 40 days after said vacancy occurs; and the ordinary shall give notice of the date of said election by the publication thereof in the newspaper in said county in which sheriffs advertisement for sales of property appear, and before the courthouse door of said county at least ten days before the said election. The person elected on said day shall perform the duties of said consolidated office for the unexpired term of his predecessors. The term of said election shall be made to the Governor, who shall commission the person so elected. The person so temporarily appointed and the person so elected shall each receive his or her pro rata part of the compensation accruing to said office for the time he or she serves.
Sec. 7. - [Tied votes.]
Should any two or more candidates at an election to fill said vacancy, or at any regular election, have the highest and an equal number of votes, said ordinary shall call and advertise another election within twenty days, in the manner above provided, and so do until a choice is made.
Sec. 8. - [Due date of taxes.]
Be it further enacted by authority aforesaid, that all taxes that are due and payable at the time the provisions of this Act become effective, and all tax fi. fas. theretofore issued by the Tax-Collector of Emanuel County, Georgia, shall have full force and effect, and be collectible as issued.
Sec. 9. - Fees paid into treasury.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all fees, commission, and all other compensation allowed to the Tax-Collector and Tax-Receiver of Emanuel County, Georgia, at the time this Act becomes effective, or that might legally be allowed to such officers thereafterward were it not for the provision of the Act, shall be collected by said county tax-commissioner and paid into the Treasury of Emanuel County, Georgia.
Sec. 10. - [Compensation.]
The Tax Commissioner of Emanuel County shall be compensated by an annual salary in an amount not less than $25,000.00 per year. Such salary shall be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of Emanuel County. Such salary shall be in lieu of any and all fees, commissions, perquisites, or other form of compensation of any type formerly received.
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 4254, § 1)
Sec. 11. - [Oath.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that before entering upon the duties of his office the said county tax-commissioner shall take the oath now prescribed by law for the tax-collector, and shall give bond in double the amount of money reasonably estimated by the County Commissioners of Emanuel County to pass through his hands annually, which bond shall be signed as surety by a bonding company legally authorized to do business in the State of Georgia, and the fee or cost for the suretyship on said bond shall be paid out of the funds of Emanuel County, Georgia, as part of the expense of county government.
