ARTICLE VIII. - TREASURER[10]

Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1931 Ga. Laws, page 455, relating to the depository for Emanuel County. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Abolition of treasurer's office.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of the same, that on and after the 1st day of January, 1933, the office of County Treasurer of Emanuel County, Georgia, shall be abolished, and said office from and after that date shall cease to exist.
Sec. 2. - Selection of bank as depository.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the commissioners of roads and revenues of said Emanuel County, Georgia, shall, by a majority vote taken among themselves, select some duly incorporated bank or banks, or person, in said county, to act as depository or depositories, and Disbursing Agent or Disbursing Agents, of and for the public funds of said county.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 532, § 1)
Sec. 3. - Removal of depository.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the term of such depository and disbursing agent shall be for a period fixed by said commissioners; and said commissioners may remove said depository and disbursing agent for nonfeasance or malfeasance in the office, and appoint a successor thereto. Any person desiring to call attention of said commissioners to any nonfeasance, or malfeasance in office of said depository and disbursing agent shall do so in writing, and shall serve a copy on said depository five (5) days before the hearing set by said commissioners.
Sec. 4. - Designation of depository.
That the bank or banks, or person, selected by said county commissioners as provided in section 2 of this Act shall, when bond and security are given as hereinafter provided, become and be designated as County Depository and Disbursing Agent of Emanuel County, Georgia.
Sec. 5. - Failure of bank, relief of sureties.
In case any such depository or disbursing agent so selected, who or which shall have given a bond with corporate surety, shall, in the due course of transacting its or his duties as such, deposit the funds in its or his hands as such depository and disbursing agent in any bank open and transacting a general banking business, and such funds so deposited should be lost by the failure of such bank, then and in that event the sureties on the bond of such county depository and disbursing agent shall be relieved of liability as such sureties to the extent of the amount so lost by reason of the failure of such bank.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 532, § 2)
Sec. 6. - Bond.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that no bank or person shall be allowed to act as such depository and disbursing agent until it, or he, shall have given bond, signed by some good surety company, in a sum to be fixed by said commissioners, but not less than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00), payable to said commissioners and their successors in office, conditioned for the safe-keeping and accounting for all funds that may come into its or his custody by reason of its or his acting as such depository, and faithful performance of all the duties pertaining to said depository, which said bond shall be approved by and filed with said county commissioners, and be recorded in the office of the Ordinary of Emanuel County, Georgia. It shall be within the power of said commissioners to call upon said bank or person acting as such depository to increase the amount of, or to strengthen, said bond at any time they may deem necessary; and, in default of the same being done, to revoke the appointment of such bank or person as depository and disbursing agent.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 532, § 3)
Sec. 7. - Duties.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that it shall be the duty of any bank or person acting as such depository and disbursing agent:
(1)
To pay without delay, when in funds of the county, all orders or warrants issued by said county commissioners and signed by their chairman, when presented for payment.
(2)
To take a receipt on each order when paid, and carefully file it away.
(3)
To keep a well-bound book, in which shall be entered all receipts, stating when received, from whom, and on what account, and all amounts paid out, stating when paid, to whom, and on what account.
(4)
To keep a well-bound book in which shall be entered a full description of all county orders or warrants, or other forms of indebtedness, as they are presented, and to record a copy of the order of the county authorities levying county taxes.
(5)
To collect and receive from all officers and others all county funds, and to receive, hold, and disburse, according to law, all funds which a county treasurer might have heretofore received, held, or disbursed.
(6)
To render reports to, and to appear before, said county commissioners whenever notified; and to appear before any grand jury of said county, on request, to render an account of its actings and doings as such depository and disbursing agent, and to exhibit its books and vouchers as such depository and disbursing agent to said grand jury whenever notified.
(7)
To perform all other duties essential to the proper conduct of the county's affairs, which it has been necessary heretofore for the county treasurer to perform.
Sec. 8. - Other duties.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that, said commissioners shall have the power and authority to prescribe, from time to time, other reasonable duties and regulations for the government of said depositories and disbursing agents, and said depositories and disbursing agents shall be just as much bound to observe the same as they are bound to observe those prescribed in this Act.
Sec. 9. - Appointment of depository; transfer of funds, etc.; payment to depository.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said county commissioners shall appoint such depository and disbursing agent, who shall give bond as herein provided, on or before the day this Act shall go into effect; and the County Treasurer of Emanuel County then in office shall, on the day this Act shall go into effect, deliver to such depository or depositories, as he may be directed by said commissioners, all county funds then in his hands, and he shall at the same time deliver to said commissioners, or to the depository, or authority designated by them, all records, books, and papers that he may have pertaining to his office. After January 1st, 1933, all parties heretofore required by law to pay over to the county treasurer funds of said county, including the tax-collector of said county, shall pay over such funds to the depository so selected by said Board of Commissioners, and payment to said depository shall be as legal payment as when heretofore made to the county treasurer.
Sec. 10. - Compensation of depository.
The compensation, if any, of said person or bank so selected to act as County Depository and disbursing agent shall be fixed by said Board of Commissioners of roads and revenues of said county; but in no event shall it exceed the sum of fifty ($50.00) dollars per month; and said salary or compensation, if it should be necessary to pay any, shall be paid out of the funds of said county. All records necessary for the performance of the duties of the county depository and disbursing agent shall be provided by said commissioners out of the county funds. It shall be within the discretion of said commissioners as to whether they will pay all, or any part, of the premiums on the bond of said county depository and disbursing agent.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 532, § 4)
Sec. 11. - Liability.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said depository and disbursing agent, or depositories and disbursing agents, shall be liable, both civilly and criminally, just as county treasurers are now liable civilly and criminally, for any nonfeasance, misfeasance, or malfeasance of duties; and said commissioners shall have the same right to proceed against such depository and disbursing agent, or depositories and disbursing agents, and the security or securities on their bonds, in the same manner as they, or the ordinary of the county, may now proceed against a county treasurer and his securities in case of nonfeasance, misfeasance, or malfeasance in the conduct of his duties of his office.
Sec. 12. - Disbursements.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that on and after the 1st day of January 1933, all county funds of Emanuel County, Georgia, except such as may be specially otherwise provided by law, shall be disbursed by the county commissioners of said county upon orders or warrants drawn by them on the county depository, as above provided.
Sec. 13. - [Warrants, orders.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that no warrants or orders drawn on such county depository shall be honored or paid by it, except such as are now authorized to be paid by the treasurer of Emanuel County.
Sec. 14. - Receipts in duplicate.
Be it further enacted by authority aforesaid, that all Officers or other persons making deposits with said depositories shall take receipts for such deposits in duplicate, keeping one and delivering the other to said county commissioners.
