Chapter 62 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 38; roads, ch. 46.
State Law reference— Authority of county to regulate traffic in unincorporated areas, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; Uniform Rules of the Road, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-1 et seq.; power of local authorities generally, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371.

Sec. 62-1. - Uniform rules of the road adopted.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-372—40-6-376, O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-2—40-6-395, known as the uniform rules of the road, and the definitions contained in O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1, are hereby adopted as and for the traffic regulations of the county with like effect as if recited in this section.
(b)
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by state law, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section shall be punished in accordance with section 1-12.
(Code 1992, § 50-1)
State Law reference— Alteration of speed limits by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-183.
Sec. 62-2. - Temporary traffic regulations.
In cases where traffic upon the roads of the county may become congested upon occasions of parades, at theaters and other public assemblages where large numbers of vehicles are assembled, the county law enforcement officers may make temporary rules directing and regulating the traffic in these congested districts; and any person, who, after being warned of the temporary traffic regulations, shall violate them, shall be liable therefor as for other violations of this Code.
Sec. 62-3. - Traffic, speed, zones; signs and traffic control devices.
(a)
Upon approval by resolution of the board of commissioners, the public works director is authorized to designate and maintain by appropriate traffic control signs, markings and devices:
(1)
Crosswalks at intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway.
(2)
Other safety zones for pedestrians.
(3)
Traffic lanes.
(4)
Speed, parking, truck or other traffic control zones.
(5)
Stop, yield, one-way and other directional devices.
(6)
Any other sign, marking, device or zone necessary for orderly and safe conditions on the roads and streets of the county.
(b)
All traffic control signs, signals, devices and markings shall conform to specifications in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the state transportation board. All signs and signals required under this chapter for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout the county. All traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this Code shall be official traffic control devices of the county.
(c)
The county clerk shall keep and maintain an accurate official map setting out all traffic zones, markings, signs and other traffic control devices. The map and any amendments or changes thereto shall be adopted by resolution of the board of commissioners and the map shall be known as the official traffic control map of the county. An official copy of the map shall be kept in the office of the county clerk; shall be available to the public; and copies certified by the county clerk shall be admissible in court as proof of the location of any traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device.
(d)
No person shall be charged with violating a traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device unless appropriate signs, markings or devices are in fact operating or in existence on the streets involved.
(e)
Any violation of any traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device established pursuant to this chapter shall be a violation of this Code.
Sec. 62-4. - Speed detection devices.
The board of commissioners hereby approves the use of a speed detection device for its law enforcement officers in order to comply with state and federal speed law requirements.
Sec. 62-5. - Covering of loads.
No person shall operate or load any vehicle on the public streets and roads of this county unless the vehicle is constructed, loaded and securely covered so as to prevent any of its load from dropping, escaping or shifting in such a manner as to create a safety hazard or in such a manner so as to litter the streets and roads of the county.
Sec. 62-6. - Parking in deceleration or acceleration lanes prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to park any automobile, truck, bus, truck tractor, trailer, tractor, trailer combination, motorcycle, moped or other motor vehicle within or upon the deceleration or acceleration lanes lying in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(b)
Deceleration and acceleration lanes shall be defined for the purpose of this section as those strips of pavement lying adjacent to and to the east of the northbound lanes of traffic and adjacent to and to the west of the southbound lanes of traffic which are not part of the regular roadway but afford access into and out of the driveways and side roads along the highway.
(c)
Violation of the provisions of this section shall be a violation of a county ordinance and shall be prosecuted in the state court of the county under the authority of O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq. A violation of this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
