Chapter 58 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor saved from repeal, § 1-4(9); any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code saved from repeal, § 1-4(14); administration, ch. 2; finance, § 2-166 et seq.; excise tax on wine, § 6-2.
State Law reference— County ad valorem taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-220 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 58-1. - Use of county landfill prohibited by persons delinquent in payment of property tax.
No person more than 60 days delinquent in the payment of ad valorem property taxes shall be allowed to use the county landfill for any purpose. The tax commissioner of the county is instructed to furnish to the board of commissioners a list of all taxpayers more than 60 days delinquent on ad valorem property taxes and the amounts thereof so that, if necessary, these property owners can be notified of the forfeiture of their right to use the county landfill until such time as all ad valorem taxes due have been paid or suitable arrangements made with the board of commissioners for the payment of such taxes.
(Code 1992, § 46-1)
Secs. 58-2—58-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LEVY, SALE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY

Sec. 58-31. - Procedures for levy and sale of personal property.
(a)
Anyone wishing to levy on personal property to collect a valid judgment must present the original fi. fa. or an appropriately certified copy.
(b)
Prior to any seizure of property by representatives of the sheriff's department, the holder of the fi. fa. must make arrangements for personnel and transportation to meet the sheriff's deputy at the location at the property to be seized. If it is a vehicle which will require towing, the holder of the fi. fa. must make prior arrangements with an approved wrecker service.
(c)
Before any property will be seized, evidence that the fi. fa. holder has an acceptable storage facility must be presented. The deputy will accompany them to the storage facility and insure that it is adequate and appropriately secured.
(d)
All seized property must, by law, be advertised for sale in the legal organ for four weeks preceding the first Tuesday in the next month. Therefore, within 48 hours after seizure the judgment creditor must present a copy of the legal ad to the sheriff, or his duly appointed representative, along with proof that arrangements for publication have been made with the legal organ. Otherwise the seized property will be released to the judgment debtor.
(e)
It is the responsibility of the fi. fa. holder to contact the sheriff's department, prior to the day of sale, and make arrangements for a representative of the department to conduct the sale.
(f)
The statutory fee for executing a levy is $25.00 which must be paid in advance.
(g)
Anyone seeking to execute a writ of possession shall be exempt from these procedures except those concerning pick up, transportation and/or towing.
(h)
A copy of these procedures shall be given to anyone requesting a levy upon personal property.
Secs. 58-32—58-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OCCUPATION TAX[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Business and occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-2 et seq.

Sec. 58-66. - Required for business dealings with the county.
Effective January 1, 1998, and during all succeeding years thereafter, each person engaged in any business, trade, profession or occupation in the county, whether with a location in the county, or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state but exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for such business, trade, profession or occupation; which tax and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the county. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the county, such business tax registration shall be shown to the county clerk or his deputies or to any police officer of the county upon his request.
Sec. 58-67. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of an occupation tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Dominant line means the type of business within a multiple line business that the greatest amount of income is derived from.
Gross receipts means the total revenue of the business or practitioner for the period including, without limitation, the following:
(1)
Total income without deduction for the cost of goods or expenses incurred;
(2)
Gain from trading in stocks, bonds, capital assets or instruments of indebtedness;
(3)
Proceeds from commissions on the sale of property, goods or services;
(4)
Proceeds from fees for services rendered; and
(5)
Proceeds from rent, interest, royalty or dividend income.
Gross receipts shall not include the following:
(1)
Sales, use or excise tax;
(2)
Sales returns, allowances and discounts;
(3)
Interorganizational sales or transfers between or among the units of a parent-subsidiary controlled group of corporations as defined by 26 USC 1563(a)(1), or between or among the units of a brother-sister controlled group of corporations as defined by 26 USC 1563(a)(2);
(4)
Payments made to a subcontractor or an independent agent; and
(5)
Governmental and foundation grants, charitable contributions or the interest income derived from such funds received by a nonprofit organization which employs salaried practitioners otherwise covered by this chapter if such funds constitute 80 percent or more of the organization's receipts.
Location of office means a temporary work site which serves a single customer or project.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession or business for revenue raising purposes.
Person means sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, nonprofit or any other form of business organization, but specifically excludes charitable nonprofit organizations which utilize 50 percent of their proceeds for charitable purposes.
Practitioner of profession or occupation means one who by state law requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation.
Practitioners of professions and occupations shall not exclude a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or as an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the entity. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee. Development impact fees as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2(8) or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 58-68. - Administrative and regulatory fee structure; occupation tax structure.
(a)
A nonprorated, nonrefundable administrative fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk shall be required on all business occupation tax accounts for the initial start-up, renewal or reopening of those accounts.
(b)
A regulatory fee will be imposed as provided under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9 on those applicable businesses. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee.
(c)
The regulatory fee schedule for persons in occupations are set forth in section 58-69.
Sec. 58-69. - Levied; restrictions.
(a)
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the unincorporated part of the county or upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, based upon the following criteria regarding the number of employees of the business or practitioner:
EXPAND
Number of
Employees Tax Rate
1—10 ..... $100.00
11—20 .....  200.00
21—30 .....  300.00
31—40 .....  400.00
41—50 .....  500.00
More than 50 .....  600.00
  (b)
The county shall require an occupation tax from those real estate brokers, agents or companies whose offices are located both inside and outside the county and sell property inside the limits of the county.
(c)
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
Sec. 58-70. - Professionals as classified in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18).
Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18) shall be charged as follows: A fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service, such tax to be paid at the practitioner's office or location; provided, however, that a practitioner paying according to this section shall not be required to provide information to the local government relating to the gross receipts of the business or practitioner. The per practitioner fee applies to each person in the business who qualifies as a practitioner under the state's regulatory guidelines and framework.
Sec. 58-71. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for the government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, municipality or county of the state, instrumentalities of the United States, the state or a municipality or county of the state, shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
Sec. 58-72. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The occupation tax levied in this article is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5—48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinance.
Sec. 58-73. - When tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such occupation tax shall be for the current calendar year and succeeding calendar years thereafter unless otherwise specifically provided. Such registration and occupation tax shall be payable January 1 of each year and shall be delinquent if not paid by February 1 of each year, and shall be subject to a ten percent penalty for delinquency for each 30-day period late. On any new profession, trade or calling begun in the county in 1997 or succeeding years thereafter, the registration and tax shall be delinquent if not paid immediately upon beginning a business and a ten percent penalty imposed.
(b)
In addition to the remedies of subsection (a) of this section, the county may proceed to collect in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
Sec. 58-74. - Exemption on grounds that business operated for charitable purpose.
No business on which a business registration or occupation tax is levied by this article shall be exempt from such registration or tax on the ground that such business is operated for a charitable purpose, unless 50 percent or more of the entire proceeds from the business are devoted to such purpose.
Sec. 58-75. - Evidence of state registration required if applicable; state registration to be displayed.
(a)
Each person who is licensed by the secretary of state pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 43 shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the county registration may be issued.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
Sec. 58-76. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a county business registration, show evidence of such qualification.
Sec. 58-77. - Liability of officers and agents; registration required; failure to obtain.
All persons subject to the occupation tax levy pursuant to this article shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for such business as described in this article, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a registration. Every person commencing business in the county after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration provided for in this section before commencing the business; and any person transacting, or offering to transact in the county, any of the kinds of business, trade, profession or occupation without first having so obtained such registration, shall be subject to penalties provided therefor.
Sec. 58-78. - County clerk charged with collecting, subpoena and arresting powers.
The county clerk and/or his duly designated employees shall be classified as deputy marshal-business inspector with full subpoena and arresting powers in conjunction with any violation pertaining to this article.
Sec. 58-79. - Businesses not covered by article.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this article, but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by act of local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355.
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state, governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
Sec. 58-80. - When occupation tax due and payable; payment options.
The amount of occupation tax shall be payable to the county, at the office of the clerk, on January 1 of each year and is delinquent if not paid on or before February 1 of each year. However, the taxpayer may have the following options as to payment of the tax if requested in writing and approved by the board of commissioners: Instead of electing to pay on January 1 the entire amount of the occupational tax, the taxpayer elects to pay the tax in deferred payments. Such tax shall be paid in equal installments as follows: March 15, July 15 and October 15. Where a taxpayer fails to make any such agreed upon payment on or before the due date for such payment, a ten percent penalty will be imposed and an additional five percent will be imposed for each additional month of delinquency thereof.
Sec. 58-81. - Amendment or repeal of article provision.
This article shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no such amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the board of commissioners to assess and collect any of the taxes or other charges prescribed. Such amendment may increase or lower the amounts and tax rates of any occupation and may change the classification thereof. The payment of any occupation tax provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the levy or collection by the county of additional occupation taxes upon the same person, property or business.
Sec. 58-82. - Applications of article provisions to prior ordinances.
This article does not repeal or affect the force of any part of any ordinance passed as provided for the issuing and enforcing of execution for any tax or assessment required by such ordinances, or that imposed fines or penalties for the nonpayment of such tax, or for failure to pay regulatory fees provided for in such ordinances, or failure to comply with any other provisions hereof, shall continue and remain in force until such tax, regulatory fee or assessment shall be fully paid.
Sec. 58-83. - Enforcement of article provisions.
It is the duty of the county clerk to see that the provisions of this article relating to occupation taxes are observed and to summon all violators of such provisions to appear before the court. It is further the duty of the sheriff's department and his deputies to inspect all registrations issued by the county, as often as in their judgment it may seem necessary to determine whether the registration held is the proper one for the business sought to be transacted.
Sec. 58-84. - Public hearing before tax increase required.
Prior to January 1 of each year, the county shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance which will increase the rate of occupation tax as set forth in this article.
Sec. 58-85. - Option to establish exemption or reduction.
The board of commissioners may by subsequent ordinance provide for an exemption or reduction in the occupation tax for one or more types of businesses or practitioners of occupations or professions as part of a plan for economic development of attracting or encouraging selected types of businesses or practitioners of selected occupations or professions. Such exemptions or reductions in occupation tax shall not be arbitrary or capricious, and the reasons shall be set forth in the minutes of the board of commissioners.
Secs. 58-86—58-120. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS BUSINESS LICENSE TAX[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Local depository financial institutions business license tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.

Sec. 58-121. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Depository financial institutions means state and national banks, state building and loan associations, and federal savings and loan associations.
Gross receipts means gross receipts as defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(Code 1993, § 46-26)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 58-122. - Imposed; rate.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, there is levied for the year 1984, and for each year thereafter, an annual business license tax upon all depository financial institutions located within the county at a rate of 0.25 percent of the gross receipts of such depository financial institutions.
(Code 1993, § 46-26)
Sec. 58-123. - Minimum tax.
The minimum annual amount of business license tax due from any depository financial institution pursuant to section 58-122 shall be $1,000.00.
(Code 1993, § 46-27)
Sec. 58-124. - Filing of return.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(c), each depository financial institution subject to this tax shall file a return of its gross receipts with the board of commissioners on March 1 of the year following the year in which such gross receipts are measured. Such return shall be in the manner and in the form prescribed by the commissioner of the state department of revenue based on the allocation method set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(d). The board of commissioners shall assess and collect the tax levied pursuant to this article based upon the information provided in such return.
(Code 1993, § 46-28)
Sec. 58-125. - Due date of taxes.
Taxes levied pursuant to this article shall be due no later than 30 days after filing of the return prescribed by section 58-124 unless extended by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1993, § 46-29)
Secs. 58-126—58-160. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - INSURERS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— General assembly authorized to provide for taxation of insurance companies based on gross direct premiums received from insurance policies within the unincorporated areas of counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ I; local tax on other than life insurance companies, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2.

Sec. 58-161. - License fee; license fee for additional locations generally.
There is levied an annual license fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk upon every insurance company engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits of the county, and there is levied an additional annual license fee in such amount for each separate business location in excess of one operated and maintained by any such company within the corporate limits.
State Law reference— Local tax on life insurance companies, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1.
Sec. 58-162. - License fee for businesses lending money or offering term financing of sales; taking insurance applications.
There is levied an additional license fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk on each insurance company for each separate business location not otherwise subject to a license fee under section 58-161, which company is operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and which, in connection with the loans or sales involving term financing, offers, solicits or takes applications for insurance through a licensed agent of the insurance company for insurance.
State Law reference— Local tax on other than life insurance companies, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2.
Sec. 58-163. - License fee for additional locations of independent agencies and brokers.
There is levied an annual license fee upon independent agencies and brokers for each separate business location from which a life insurance business is conducted and which is not subject to the company license fee imposed by either section 58-161 or 58-162, in the amount set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk for each such location within the county.
Sec. 58-164. - Gross direct premiums tax.
There is levied an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer writing life, accident and sickness insurance within the county in an amount equal to one percent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1. The expression "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by sections 58-161 and 58-162.
Sec. 58-165. - Gross direct premiums tax on classes of insurance other than life, accident and sickness.
There is levied an annual tax upon each insurer, other than an insurer transacting business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(1) doing business as provided in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2 in an amount equal to 2½ percent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2. The expression "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2(a).
Sec. 58-166. - Due date for license fees.
License fees imposed in this article shall be due and payable April 1 of each year.
Secs. 58-167—58-180. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - ENERGY EXCISE TAX[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of 12-17-2012, §§ 1—8, effective Jan. 1, 2013, did not specifically amend the Code; hence, inclusion herein as Art. VI, §§ 58-181—58-188, was at the editor's discretion.

Sec. 58-181. - Energy excise tax definitions.
As used in this article, the terms: "dealer," "energy," "local sales and use tax," and "purchaser" shall have the same meanings as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-110.
(Ord. of 12-17-2012, § 1)
Sec. 58-182. - Imposition; rate; remitting; recovery; liabilities.
(a)
In accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-13-110 et seq., there is imposed within the territorial limits of the special district created pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-111, an excise tax on the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy when such sale, use, storage, or consumption would have constituted a taxable event for purposes of sales and use tax under O.C.G.A. § 48-8-1 et seq. but for the exemption in O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2.
(Ord. of 12-17-2012, § 2)
Sec. 58-183. - Excise tax rate; phase-in.
(a)
Such excise tax shall be levied and collected by the governing authority of Emanuel County pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-112 and 48-13-114 and as provided in this section.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided in this section, the rate of such excise tax shall be phased in over a four-year period as follows:
(1)
For the period commencing January 1, 2013, and concluding at the last moment of December 31, 2013, such excise tax shall be at a rate equivalent to 25 percent of the total amount of local sales and use tax in such special district that would be collected on the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy but for the exemption in O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2;
(2)
For the period commencing January 1, 2014, and concluding at the last moment of December 31, 2014, such excise tax shall be at a rate equivalent to 50 percent of the total amount of local sales and use tax in effect in such special district that would be collected on the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy but for the exemption in O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2;
(3)
For the period commencing January 1, 2015, and concluding at the last moment of December 31, 2015, such excise tax shall be at a rate equivalent to 75 percent of the total amount of local sales and use tax in effect in such special district that would be collected on the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy but for the exemption in O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2; and
(4)
On or after January 1, 2016, such excise tax shall be at a rate equivalent to 100 percent of the total amount of local sales and use tax in effect in such special district that would be collected on the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy but for the exemption in O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2.
(c)
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2(c)(4), if a project of regional significance under O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3(92) is started in the special district, it shall not be subject to the phase-in period contained in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (b) of this section, and the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy in connection therewith shall be subject to the rate specified in paragraph (4) of subsection (b) of this section notwithstanding the January 1, 2016, limitation in that paragraph (4).
(d)
(1)
Following such initial imposition during the phase-in time period, on or after January 1, 2016, the rate of the excise tax levied and collected by the governing authority of Emanuel County shall be directed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-112(d). Such rate shall be controlled by the maximum amount of local sales and use tax in effect in the special district, but in no event more than two percent (except in the case where the municipal option water and sewer tax is levied where that rate will be three percent).
(2)
In the event the total rate of local sales and use taxes in effect in the special district decreases from two percent to one percent, the rate of the excise tax under this article shall likewise be reduced at the same time such local sales and use tax rate reduction becomes effective.
(3)
In the event the total rate of local sales and use taxes in effect in the special district increases from one percent to two percent, the rate of the excise tax under this article shall likewise be increased at the same time such local sales and use tax rate increase becomes effective.
(Ord. of 12-17-2012, § 3)
Sec. 58-184. - Imposition; remittance; recovery.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-112(c), such excise tax shall be:
(1)
Imposed only at the time sales and use tax on the sale or use of such energy would have been due and payable under O.C.G.A. § 48-8-30 but for the exemption under O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2;
(2)
Due and payable in the same manner as would be required under O.C.G.A. § 48-8-1 et seq., except as other[wise] provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-8-110 et seq.;
(3)
A debt of the purchaser of energy until it is paid and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as authorized for the recovery of other debts;
(4)
Remitted to the governing authority of Emanuel County by the dealer collecting such excise tax; and
(5)
A liability of the dealer at the applicable rate on the charges actually collected or the amount of excise taxes collected from purchasers, whichever is greater.
(Ord. of 12-17-2012, § 4)
Sec. 58-185. - Exemption certificates.
(a)
The governing authority of Emanuel County, or the collecting officer appointed under section 58-188 of this article, shall make diligent efforts to identify all energy providers and purchasers in the special district and to ascertain whether such a purchaser has completed a uniform exemption certificate provided from the website of the Georgia Department of Revenue seeking to qualify such purchaser for the exemption under O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2. Such certificate shall be utilized by such governing authority or collecting officer for the purpose of determining the applicability of the excise tax under this article.
(b)
An energy provider shall be authorized to rely upon such uniform exemption certificates. No penalty shall attach to such provider for failure to collect the excise tax under this article when it has properly collected and remitted local sales and use taxes on such energy where the purchaser would have qualified for the uniform exemption certificate but failed to apply for such certificate or where the purchaser received such certificate but failed to file it with the energy provider.
(Ord. of 12-17-2012, § 5)
Sec. 58-186. - Commencement of collections.
The excise tax imposed pursuant to this article shall become effective on January 1, 2013, and shall be due and payable to the governing authority of Emanuel County monthly on or before the 20th day of every month and each respective month in which such taxes are collected, and payment shall be accompanied by a return for the preceding monthly period showing the gross sales and purchases arising from all sales and purchases taxable under this article during the preceding calendar month.
(Ord. of 12-17-2012, § 6)
Sec. 58-187. - Allocation, distribution, and expenditure of proceeds.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-114(b), the excise tax proceeds shall be allocated and distributed by the governing authority of Emanuel County at the end of each calendar month. An amount equal to one percent of such proceeds collected by Emanuel County shall be paid into the general fund of Emanuel County to defray the costs of collection and administration.
(b)
The remainder shall be distributed in accordance with the intergovernmental agreement as required under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-114(b) and (c). Within 30 days following the end of each calendar month, the remainder shall be distributed to the general fund of Emanuel County and the general fund of each participating municipality in accordance with the applicable provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-13-114(c)(1) or (2) as follows:
(1)
If two local sales and use taxes are in effect in the special district, an amount equal to one-half of the proceeds shall be distributed to the general fund of Emanuel County and the general fund of each participating municipality located in the county according to the same proportionate share as specified under the distribution provisions of the first local sales and use tax, and an amount equal to one-half of the proceeds of the excise tax shall be distributed to the general fund of Emanuel County and the general fund of each participating municipality located in such county according to the same proportionate share as specified under the distribution provisions of the second local sales and use tax; or
(2)
If only one such local sales and use tax is in effect in the special district, then the proceeds of the excise tax shall be distributed to the general fund of Emanuel County and the general fund of each participating municipality located in the county according to the same proportionate share as specified under the distribution provisions of the local sales and use tax.
(c)
Except as provided in subsection (a) of this section, proceeds of the excise tax deposited in the general fund of Emanuel County may be expended for any lawful purpose as determined by the governing authority of Emanuel County.
(Ord. of 12-17-2012, § 7)
Sec. 58-188. - Administrative provisions; audits; examinations; collecting officer.
(a)
The governing authority of Emanuel County shall be authorized to designate a collecting officer for collection and administration of the excise tax under this article.
(b)
The collecting officer shall be authorized to provide for procedures necessary to the proper implementation of this article, including, but not limited to, periodic auditing of dealers collecting and remitting the excise tax. The collecting officer, or the designee of the collecting officer, is specifically authorized to examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment, or other facilities of any purchaser which is required to remit the excise tax under this article.
(c)
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-118, as part of the audit report required under O.C.G.A. § 36-81-7, the auditor shall include, in a separate schedule, a report of the revenues pertaining to the excise tax under this article.
(Ord. of 12-17-2012, § 8)
