Chapter 101 - PLANNING
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 101-1. - Application of chapter 1.
The provisions of chapter 1 apply to this subpart.
Sec. 101-2. - Legal status.
While this subpart B of this Code is a codification of ordinances pertaining to land use and land development, and subpart A of this Code is a codification of general ordinances:
(1)
The inclusion of a provision in subpart A that relates to land use or land development does not excuse noncompliance with such provision.
(2)
The inclusion of a provision in subpart B that does not relate to land use or land development does not excuse noncompliance with such provision.
Secs. 101-3—101-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION

Sec. 101-23. - City planning and zoning commission; created and established.
There is hereby created and established a city planning and zoning commission.
(Ord. No. 2015-015, § 18.1, 9-14-2015)
Sec. 101-24. - Membership; terms of office; officers; vacancies.
(a)
The planning and zoning commission shall consist of five members, appointed by the city council to serve five-year terms. Initial appointments beginning on June 10, 1985, shall be as follows: one appointed for one year, one appointed for two years, one appointed for three years, one appointed for four years, and one appointed for five years.
(b)
All planning and zoning commission members must be residents of the city and shall have resided in Emerson for a minimum of one year prior to selection of the planning and zoning commission.
(c)
The planning and zoning commission shall elect one of its members as a chairperson and one of its members as a vice-chairperson, who will serve for one year, or until the chairperson or vice-chairperson is re-elected, or a successor is elected. The city clerk shall serve as the secretary to take minutes of the planning and zoning commission's meetings, recording all motions and votes thereon as well as any other business of the planning and zoning commission conducted in a public forum. The planning and zoning commission shall maintain rules of procedure in accordance with state law. The city council shall approve the planning and zoning commission's rules of procedure or any amendment before they become effective.
(d)
Resignations shall be in writing and delivered to the chairperson of the planning and zoning commission. Any member who is absent more than 50 percent of the regularly scheduled meetings or accumulates three consecutive absences shall be deemed to have resigned.
(e)
Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the initial appointment. Members shall be compensated as determined by the city council.
(Ord. No. 2015-015, § 18.2, 9-14-2015)
Sec. 101-25. - Duties and function of the planning and zoning commission.
The duty and function of the city planning and zoning commission is to promulgate plans for the orderly development of the city and for recommendation of such plans and programs as the planning and zoning commission deems advisable for the progress and development of the city; said plans and recommendations shall be submitted to the city council for acceptance or rejection, at its discretion. It shall be the responsibility of the planning and zoning commission to:
(1)
Review and recommend to the city council its approval, disapproval or approval with conditions on all requests.
(2)
Review and make a recommendation to the city council in regard to all requests for conditional uses.
(3)
Review and make a recommendation to the city council in regard to all requests for a variance.
(4)
Review and make a recommendation to the city council in regard to the adoption of a comprehensive plan or an amendment thereto.
(Ord. No. 2015-015, § 18.3, 9-14-2015)
Sec. 101-26. - Powers and authority of the planning and zoning commission officers.
(a)
The city planning and zoning commission shall be vested with all power and authority as provided by the laws of the state and such laws and ordinances as are now in force or hereinafter enacted.
(b)
The chairperson shall preside over meetings and shall be responsible for conduct and decorum of the meeting. The chairperson shall have the responsibility to ensure that all parties receive a full and fair hearing before the planning and zoning commission, enforcement of the rules herein and applicable state laws.
(c)
The chairperson shall be responsible for calling special called meetings and notifying the secretary of the planning and zoning commission so notice can be provided in accordance with state law.
(d)
The vice-chairperson shall preside over meetings and assume the duties of the chairperson in the absence of the chairperson. In the absence of both the chairperson and the vice-chairperson, the first order of business shall be for the members present to elect a chairperson pro tem until the chairperson or vice-chairperson returns.
(e)
The chairperson shall have the power to appoint subcommittees of the planning and zoning commission if he finds such committee necessary to carry out the functions of the planning and zoning commission.
(f)
The secretary shall be responsible to maintain the minutes and records of the planning and zoning commission, and shall notify each commissioner 90 days prior to his term expiration.
(Ord. No. 2015-015, § 18.4, 9-14-2015)
Sec. 101-27. - Meetings.
(a)
A quorum of three members shall be required to conduct business; an affirmative vote of three members voting on a question shall be sufficient for the adoption of the question. Members abstaining shall not be considered members voting in determining whether a question has been adopted.
(b)
The regularly scheduled meeting of the planning and zoning commission shall be held on the date and time as set unless there is no cause to hold such meeting, in which case, the secretary shall inform the members of the planning and zoning commission at least 24 hours in advance of the regularly scheduled meeting time.
(c)
Special called meetings may be called by the chairperson, provided at least 24 hours' notice of such meeting is given.
(d)
Conduct of meetings.
(1)
All meetings shall be open to the public. Meetings shall be closed only under specific circumstances in accordance with state law.
(2)
Order of business shall be as follows:
a.
Roll call.
b.
Approval of minutes.
c.
Hearing on text amendments, conditional uses and variances.
d.
Committee reports.
e.
Old business.
f.
New business.
(Ord. No. 2015-015, § 18.5, 9-14-2015)
Sec. 101-28. - Standards of conduct.
(a)
Conflicts of interest. A planning and zoning commissioner shall have a conflict of interest if said planning and zoning commissioner, or his family, has a property interest in any real property affected by action on an application before the planning and zoning commission, or has a financial interest in any business entity that has a property interest in any real property affected by action on an application before the planning and zoning commission. Any planning and zoning commissioner having a conflict of interest shall immediately disclose the nature and extent of such interest in writing to the city council. These disclosures shall be made a public record. No planning and zoning commissioner shall vote or participate on a matter in which he has a conflict of interest.
(b)
No planning and zoning commissioner shall represent an applicant before the planning and zoning commission.
(c)
No planning and zoning commissioner shall discuss any matter pending before the planning and zoning commission with anyone outside a public hearing. All letters or other material personally received by a planning and zoning commissioner shall be provided to each planning and zoning commissioner at the public hearing on the item in question.
(Ord. No. 2015-015, § 18.6, 9-14-2015)
