ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 105-1. - Requirements for land development.
No owner or developer shall perform any land development activities without first meeting the requirements of this chapter prior to commencing the proposed activity.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 100, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-2. - Title.
This chapter shall be known as the "City of Emerson Development Regulations," and may be referred to generally as "the development regulations," or as used herein, "these regulations" or "this chapter."
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 101.1, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-3. - Purpose.
These regulations are intended to serve the following purposes:
(1)
To protect and promote the public health, safety, and general welfare.
(2)
To provide a system for the subdividing of land and the accurate recording of land titles.
(3)
To encourage economically sound and orderly land development in accordance with the policies and objectives of the comprehensive plan of the city.
(4)
To ensure the provision of required streets, utilities, and other facilities and services to new land developments in the city.
(5)
To ensure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in new land developments in the city.
(6)
To ensure the provision of needed public open spaces and building sites in new land developments in the city through the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational, and other public purposes.
(7)
To ensure protection of streams, waterways, and wetlands within the city.
(8)
To ensure equitable review and approval of all subdivision and site plans by providing uniform procedures and standards for the developer.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 101.2, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-4. - Intent.
The intent and purpose of this chapter is to provide for the harmonious development of the city and to ensure a coordinated layout with adequate provisions for traffic, recreation, drainage, water, sewers, and other technical elements of land development. This control is necessary to ensure the maximum return on the local and government investments and at the same time to assure the homeowner protection and the developer full consideration of his interests and responsibilities.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 101.3, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-5. - Use of this document.
(a)
This document is subject to periodic revision to meet changing requirements for materials, state and federal regulations, etc. At the beginning of a project the user should verify that he has the latest edition.
(b)
This document is intended to convey the general design and construction requirements for a typical project. It also lists the specific city requirements relating to plan review, inspection, testing and acceptance of facilities. It is not intended as a substitute for site-specific engineering and construction techniques.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 101.4, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-6. - Administration.
This chapter shall be administered, interpreted, and enforced by the city manager or his designee.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 101.5, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-7. - Applicability.
The provisions of this chapter shall apply throughout the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 101.6, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-8. - Compatibility with other regulations.
This chapter is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule, regulation, other provision of law. The requirements of this chapter are in addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of law, and where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive or imposes higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall control.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 101.7, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-9. - Severability.
If the provisions of any section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this chapter shall be adjudged invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall not affect or invalidate the remainder of any section, subsection, paragraph, subdivision or clause of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 101.8, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-10. - Use of words and interpretation.
(a)
For the purpose of this chapter, the following shall apply to the use of all words:
(1)
When appropriate to the context, words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural the singular; words used in the present tense shall include the future tense, and vice versa.
(2)
Words in the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
(3)
The term "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
(4)
The term "may" is permissive.
(5)
Use of the term "and" is inclusive and requires that all of the component phrases so connected must be present or fulfilled for sufficiency.
(6)
Use of the term "or" is not exclusive, and requires that at least one of the component phrases so connected must be present or fulfilled for sufficiency.
(b)
The term "or" may allow more than one component phrase to be present or fulfilled, as is implied by the common term "and/or." The following shall control the interpretation of words and phrases as used in these regulations:
(1)
Words and phrases defined in this chapter shall be interpreted as defined herein.
(2)
Words or phrases not defined herein shall be interpreted as defined in other ordinances and codes of the city. Words or phrases not defined in the above-mentioned documents shall have their customary dictionary definitions where not inconsistent with the context.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 101.9, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-11. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Accidental discharge means a discharge prohibited by this chapter, which occurs by chance and without planning or thought prior to occurrence.
Addition (to an existing building) means any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load-bearing wall other than a fire wall. Any walled and roofed addition which is connected by a fire wall or is separated by an independent perimeter load-bearing wall shall be considered new construction.
Appeal means a request for a review of the city's interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
Applicant means a person submitting an application (i.e., post-development stormwater management application and plan) for approval.
Area of shallow flooding means a designated AO or AH zone on a community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet, and/or where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
Area of special flood hazard means the land subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. This includes all floodplain and floodprone areas at or below the base flood elevation (including A, A1-30, A-99, AE, AO, AH, and AR on the FHBM or the FIRM), all floodplain and floodprone areas at or below the future-conditions flood elevation, and all other floodprone areas. All streams with a drainage area of 100 acres or greater shall have the area of special flood hazard delineated.
As-built drawing means a survey or other drawing based on a field survey, which shows existing features or components and horizontal or vertical information (grades or location of improvements). All as-built information submitted to the city in the form of electronic files must be in AutoCAD format and be drawn using state plane coordinates.
Base flood means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year, also known as the 100-year flood.
Base flood elevation means the highest water surface elevation anticipated at any given point during the base flood.
Basement means that portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all sides.
Best management practices (BMPs) means sound conservation and engineering practices utilized to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia published by the commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land disturbing activity was permitted.
Block means a piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways or streets other than alleys. In cases where the plotting is incomplete or disconnected, the subdivider may determine the outline of the block.
Board means the board of natural resources of the state.
Buffer or buffer zone means, with respect to a stream, a natural or enhanced vegetated area lying adjacent to the stream; the area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of state waters in its natural state of vegetation, which facilitates the protection of water quality and aquatic habitat.
Building means any structure built for support, shelter, or enclosure for any occupancy or storage.
Building line means the zoning ordinance for the city.
Building sewers (a.k.a. service laterals) means those pipes used to convey wastewater from the building or portions of a building to a main sewer. The minimum diameter for a service lateral is four inches. These sewers are privately funded and owned.
CPESC means a certified professional in erosion and sediment control with current certification by EnviroCert Inc. which is also referred to as CPESC or CPESC, Inc.
Certified personnel means a person who has successfully completed the appropriate certification course approved by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
Channel means a natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conducts continuously or periodically flowing water.
City means the City of Emerson, Georgia or officials thereof.
City of Emerson separate storm sewer system (MS4) means any facility designed or used for collecting and/or conveying stormwater, including, but not limited to, any roads with drainage systems, highways, city streets, curbs, gutters, inlets, catch basins, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, structural stormwater controls, ditches, swales, natural and manmade or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures, and which is:
(1)
Owned or maintained by the city;
(2)
Not a combined sewer; and
(3)
Not part of a publicly-owned treatment works.
Clean Water Act means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
Clearing means the removal of trees or other vegetation, but not including grubbing activities.
Coastal marshlands shall have the same meaning as in O.C.G.A. § 12-5-82.
Commission means the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission (GSWCC).
Comprehensive plan means the Bartow County, Georgia Comprehensive Plan 1991-2011, Adairsville, Emerson, Euharlee, Cartersville, Kingston, Taylorsville, White, dated December 1991 as amended.
Conservation easement means an agreement between a land owner and the city or other government agency or land trust that permanently protects open space or greenspace on the owner's land by limiting the amount and type of development that can take place, but continues to leave the remainder of the fee interest in private ownership.
Construction activity means activities subject to the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act or NPDES general construction permits. These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance. Such activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
Construction plans means a set of engineering drawings of the proposed streets, drainage, and utilities.
Contractor means a person, firm, or corporation with whom the owner of a property has employed or contracted to perform construction activity associated with the development. For the purpose of this chapter, the term "contractor" shall include all subcontractors who are under separate contract or agreement with the contractor for performance of a part of the work at the site.
Cul-de-sac street means a street having one end open to traffic and being permanently terminated within the development by a vehicular turnaround. For the purpose of designation, a cul-de-sac street shall be interpreted to begin at the intersection of two or more streets nearest to the vehicular turnaround.
Cut means a portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to the excavated surface; also known as excavation.
Department means the state department of natural resources (DNR).
Design professional means a professional licensed by the state in the field of engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, forestry, geology, or land surveying; or a person that is a certified professional in erosion and sediment control (CPESC) with a current certification by EnviroCert, Inc. Design professionals shall practice in a manner that complies with applicable state law governing professional licensure.
Detention means the temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a stormwater management facility for the purpose of controlling the peak discharge.
Detention facility means a detention basin or structure designed for the detention of stormwater runoff and gradual release of stored water at controlled rates.
Developer means any person, individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, or any other group or combination acting as a unit who directs the undertaking or proposes to undertake development activities whether the development involves the subdivision of the land for sale to individual users, the construction of buildings or other improvements on a single land ownership, or both.
Development means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, clearing, grubbing, grading, paving, any other installation of impervious cover, excavation or drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.
Director means the director of the environmental protection division or an authorized representative.
District means the Coosa River Soil and Water Conservation District.
Division means the environmental protection division (EPD) of the department of natural resources.
Drainage easement means an easement appurtenant or attached to a tract or parcel of land allowing the owner of adjacent tracts or other persons to discharge stormwater runoff onto the tract or parcel of land subject to the drainage easement.
Drainage structure means a device composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for stormwater management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
Drainageway means an area designated for the conveyance of stormwater runoff through real property, including both natural and manmade areas.
Easement means a recorded authorization for a specified purpose by a property owner for the use of any designated part of the real property by another entity.
Elevated building means a non-basement building built to have the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls, pilings, columns, piers, or shear walls adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a base flood event.
Encroachments means any building, structure, or vehicle, or other object or thing (including, but not limited to, mailboxes, signs, cars, gates, walls, sprinkler systems, trees, posts, etc.) which is located in the right-of-way. The term "encroach" means to be within the right-of-way.
Erosion means the process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
Erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan means a plan required by the Erosion and Sedimentation Act, O.C.G.A. ch. 12-7, that includes as a minimum, protections at least as stringent as the state general permit, best management practices, and the requirements set forth in this chapter (a.k.a. the "plan") that is designed to minimize the accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a site during land disturbance activities.
Existing construction means any structure for which the start of construction commenced before the City of Emerson Floodplain Ordinance dated October 8, 1982.
Existing manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the City of Emerson Floodplain Ordinance dated October 8, 1982.
Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
Extended detention means the detention of stormwater runoff for an extended period, typically 24 hours or greater.
Extreme flood protection means measures taken to prevent adverse impacts from large low-frequency storm events with a return frequency of 100 years or more.
FEMA means the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Fill means a portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground surface or an excavation.
Final plat means a plat of a tract of land which meets the requirements of the city for permanent recording in the office of the clerk of the superior court of Bartow County.
Final stabilization means all soil disturbing activities at the site have been completed, and that for unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures and areas located outside the waste disposal limits of a landfill cell that has been certified by EPD for waste disposal, 100 percent of the soil surface is uniformly covered in permanent vegetation with a density of 70 percent or greater, or landscaped according to the plan (uniformly covered with landscaping materials in planned landscaped areas), or equivalent permanent stabilization measures as defined in the manual (excluding a crop of annual vegetation and seeding of target crop perennials appropriate for the region). Final stabilization applies to each phase of construction.
Finished grade means the final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Flood means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
(1)
The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
(2)
The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
Flood hazard boundary map or FHBM means an official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administration, where the boundaries of areas of special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
Flood insurance rate map or FIRM means an official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administration, delineating the areas of special flood hazard and/or risk premium zones applicable to the community.
Flood insurance study or FIS means the official report by the Federal Insurance Administration evaluating flood hazards and containing flood profiles and water surface elevations of the base flood.
Flooding means a volume of surface water that is too great to be confined within the banks or walls of a conveyance or stream channel and that overflows onto adjacent lands.
Floodplain means any land area susceptible to flooding, which would have at least a one percent probability of flooding occurrence in any calendar year based on the basin being fully developed as shown on the current land use plan; i.e., the regulatory flood.
Floodplain ordinance means a component of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
Floodproofing means any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
Floodway or regulatory floodway means the channel of a stream or other watercourse and the adjacent areas of the floodplain which is necessary to contain and discharge the base flood flow without cumulatively increasing the base flood elevation more than one foot.
Force main sewers means pressure piping systems which convey sewage from a pump station to a main sewer. These sewers are constructed of ductile iron pipe and have a minimum diameter of four inches. Funding of force mains is by the developer.
Frontage is as defined in the zoning ordinance for the city.
Functionally dependent use means a use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water.
Future-conditions flood means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year based on future-conditions hydrology. Also known as the 100-year future-conditions flood.
Future-conditions flood elevation means the flood standard equal to or higher than the base flood elevation. The future-conditions flood elevation is defined as the highest water surface anticipated at any given point during the future-conditions flood.
Future-conditions floodplain means any land area susceptible to flooding by the future-conditions flood.
Future-conditions hydrology means the flood discharges associated with projected land-use conditions based on a community's zoning map, comprehensive land-use plans, and/or watershed study projections, and without consideration of projected future construction of flood detention structures or projected future hydraulic modifications within a stream or other waterway, such as bridge and culvert construction, fill, and excavation.
Georgia DOT means the state department of transportation.
Grading means altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Greenspace oropen space means permanently protected areas of the site that are preserved in a natural state.
Ground elevation means the original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Grubbing means the removal of stumps or roots from a property.
Health department means the county health department.
Heavy industrial development means any development that will contain a loading dock or will be subject to frequent truck traffic.
Highest adjacent grade means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface, prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed foundation of a building.
Historic structure means any structure that is:
(1)
Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of the Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
(2)
Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
(3)
Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
(4)
Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
a.
By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior; or
b.
Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
Hotspot means an area where the use of the land has the potential to generate highly contaminated runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in stormwater.
Hydrologic soil group (HSG) means a Natural Resource Conservation Service Classification System in which soils are categorized into four runoff potential groups. The groups range from group A soils, with high permeability and little runoff produced, to group D soils, which have low permeability rates and produce much more runoff.
Illegal connection means either of the following:
(1)
Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drain system including, but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system, regardless of whether such pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance has been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
(2)
Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance connected to the city's separate storm sewer system, which has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
Illicit discharge means any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the city's separate storm sewer system, except as exempted in this chapter.
Impervious cover means a surface composed of any material that significantly impedes or prevents the natural infiltration of water into soil. Impervious surfaces include, but are not limited to, rooftops, buildings, streets and roads, and any concrete or asphalt surface.
Industrial activity means activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as defined in 40 CFR 122.26(b)(14).
Industrial stormwater permit means a national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit issued to an industry or group of industries which regulates the pollutant levels associated with industrial stormwater discharges or specifies on-site pollution control strategies.
Infiltration means the process of percolating stormwater runoff into the subsoil.
Inspection and maintenance agreement means a written agreement providing for the long-term inspection and maintenance of stormwater management facilities and practices on a site or with respect to a land development project, which, when properly recorded in the deed records, constitutes a restriction on the title to a site or other land involved in a land development project.
Jurisdictional wetland means an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation.
Land development means any land change, including, but not limited to, clearing, digging, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, construction, paving, and any other installation of impervious cover.
Land development activities means those actions or activities, which comprise, facilitate or result in land development.
Land development project means a discrete land development undertaking.
Land disturbance means any land or vegetation change, including, but not limited to, clearing, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, that does not involve construction, paving or any other installation of impervious cover.
Land disturbing activity means those actions or activities which comprise, facilitate or result in land disturbance; any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land but not including agricultural practices.
Larger common plan of development or sale means a contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct construction activities are occurring under one plan of development or sale. For the purposes of this definition, the term "plan" means an announcement; piece of documentation such as a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request, or computer design; or physical demarcation such as boundary signs, lot stakes, or surveyor markings, indicating that construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
Local issuing authority means the governing authority of any county or municipality, which is certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a).
Lot means a lot of record, or any combination of lots of record, held in a single ownership by one person, or in common ownership by more than one, which has both lot area and lot dimensions equal to or greater than the lot width and lot area requirements established by the city zoning ordinance for the zoning district in which such tract of land is located and for the use proposed for the tract of land.
Lot width means the horizontal distance between the side lines of a lot measured at right angles to its depth along a straight line parallel to the front lot line at the minimum required building setback line.
Lowest floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a basement, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of other provisions of this chapter.
MS4. See City of Emerson separate storm sewer system.
Main sewers are located in streets or dedicated easements. They are gravity piping systems used to collect sewage from one or more service laterals to other main sewers. Main sewers are a minimum of eight inches in diameter and may extend beyond the property boundaries of a development. Funding of main sewers is by the developer.
Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia means the manual published by the commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land disturbing activity was permitted, which is incorporated herein by reference (a.k.a. the "Green Book").
Manufactured home means a building, transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term "manufactured home" includes any structure commonly referred to as a "mobile home" regardless of the date of manufacture. The term "manufactured home" also includes parked trailers, travel trailers and similar transportable structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to be improved property.
Materially injure means damaging the pavement or right-of-way to the extent that a repair is or will be required by the city in order to bring the pavement or right-of-way back to city standards. It shall also mean causing more than $50.00 damage to the right-of-way or pavement, considering the labor cost and materials to repair the injury, whether or not such repair is undertaken by the city.
Mean sea level means the average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain. For purposes of this chapter the term "mean sea level" is synonymous with National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) and/or the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988. All topographic information submitted to the city as part of a proposed development must be reduced to mean sea level; temporary benchmark data will not be accepted.
Metropolitan River Protection Act (MRPA) means a state law, referenced as O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq., which addresses environmental and developmental matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
NOI means a notice of intent form provided by EPD for coverage under the NPDES state general permit.
NOT means a notice of termination form provided by the EPD to terminate coverage under the NPDES state general permit.
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD), as corrected in 1929, means a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
National pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) stormwater discharge permit means a permit issued by the state EPD under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC § 1342(b) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
Natural ground surface means the ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation or filling.
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTUs) means numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed or suspended particles are present.
New construction means any structure (see definition) for which the start of construction commenced after the City of Emerson Floodplain Ordinance dated October 8, 1982, and includes any subsequent improvements to the structure.
New development means a land development activity on a previously undeveloped site.
New manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the City of Emerson Floodplain Ordinance dated October 8, 1982.
Nonpoint source pollution means a form of water pollution that does not originate from a discrete point such as a sewage treatment plant or industrial discharge, but involves the transport of pollutants such as sediment, fertilizers, pesticides, heavy metals, oil, grease, bacteria, organic materials and other contaminants from land to surface water and groundwater via mechanisms such as precipitation, stormwater runoff, and leaching. Nonpoint source pollution is a by-product of land use practices such as agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
Non-stormwater discharge means any discharge to the storm drain system that is not composed entirely of stormwater.
Nonstructural stormwater management practice or nonstructural practice means any natural or planted vegetation or other nonstructural component of the stormwater management plan that provides for or enhances stormwater quantity and/or quality control or other stormwater management benefits, and includes, but is not limited to, riparian buffers, open and greenspace areas, overland flow filtration areas, natural depressions, and vegetated channels.
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 means a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
Obstruct includes, without limitation, the causing of any buildup of rock, gravel, mud, dirt, chemicals, or other materials by continued ingress or egress of vehicles or of any natural waters dammed or redirected by diversion to an extent which presents a hazard to the traveling public. It shall also include negligently or intentionally dropping objects onto the road that present a hazard to the traveling public, including ladders, trash, debris, branches, cement, etc.
Off-site facility means a stormwater management facility located outside the boundaries of the site.
On-site facility means a stormwater management facility located within the boundaries of the site.
Operator means the parties that have:
(1)
Operational control of construction project plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications; or
(2)
Day-to-day operational control of those activities that are necessary to ensure compliance with an erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan for the site or other permit conditions, such as a person authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out activities required by the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan or to comply with other permit conditions.
Outfall means the location where stormwater in a discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, leaves a facility or site or, if there is a receiving water on-site, becomes a point source discharging into that receiving water.
Overbank flood protection means measures taken to prevent an increase in the frequency and magnitude of out-of-bank flooding (i.e., flow events that exceed the capacity of the channel and enter the floodplain), and that are intended to protect downstream properties from flooding for the two-year through 25-year frequency storm events.
Owner means the legal or beneficial owner of a site, including, but not limited to, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm or corporation in control of the site.
Parcel means any plot, lot or acreage shown as a unit on the latest county tax assessment records.
Permit means the permit issued by the city to the applicant which is required for undertaking any land development or development activity; the authorization necessary to conduct land disturbing activity under the provisions of this chapter.
Person means, except to the extent exempted from this chapter, any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, city, county or other political subdivision of the state, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Phase orphased means subparts or segments of construction projects where the subpart or segment is constructed and stabilized prior to completing construction activities on the entire construction site.
Plat means a property boundary map for the entire tract of land for a project prepared by a land surveyor registered by the state.
Pollutant means anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may include, but are not limited to, paints, varnishes, and solvents; petroleum hydrocarbons; automotive fluids; cooking grease; detergents (biodegradable or otherwise); degreasers; cleaning chemicals; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; liquid and solid wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or structure; concrete and cement; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
Pollution means the contamination or other alteration of any water's physical, chemical or biological properties by the addition of any constituent and includes, but is not limited to, a change in temperature, taste, color, turbidity, or odor of such waters, or the discharge of any liquid, gaseous, solid, radioactive, or other substance into any such waters as will or is likely to create a nuisance or render such waters harmful, detrimental or injurious to the public health, safety, welfare, or environment, or to domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational, or other legitimate beneficial uses, or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or other aquatic life.
Post-development means the time period, or the conditions that may reasonably be expected or anticipated to exist, after completion of the land development activity on a site as the context may require.
Pre-development means the time period, or the conditions that exist, on a site prior to the commencement of a land development project and at the time that plans for the land development of a site are approved by the plan approving authority. Where phased development or plan approval occurs (preliminary grading, roads and utilities, etc.), the existing conditions at the time prior to the first item being approved or permitted shall establish pre-development conditions.
Preliminary plat means an overall layout of the proposed development usually shown on one sheet which meets the minimum standards of the city.
Premises means any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
Project, for the purposes of this article, means:
(1)
A principal building or structure, or group of buildings or structures, planned and designed as an interdependent unit together with all accessory uses or structures, utilities, drainage, access, and circulation facilities, whether built in whole or in phases. Examples include, but are not limited to, a principal building on a lot, a residential subdivision, a multifamily development, a shopping center, or an office park.
(2)
The entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed. The project includes all related off-site construction including driveways, access roads, utility extensions, etc.
Properly designed means designed in accordance with the design requirements and specifications contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia published by the commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land disturbing activity was permitted and amendments to the manual as approved by the commission up until the date of NOI submittal.
Protection area or stream protection area means, with respect to a stream, the combined areas of all required buffers and setbacks applicable to such stream.
Recreational vehicle means a vehicle which is:
(1)
Built on a single chassis;
(2)
400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
(3)
Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by light duty truck; and
(4)
Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
Redevelopment means a land development project on a previously developed site, but excludes ordinary maintenance activities, remodeling of existing buildings, resurfacing of paved areas, and exterior changes or improvements which do not materially increase or concentrate stormwater runoff, or cause additional nonpoint source pollution.
Regional stormwater management facility orregional facility means stormwater management facilities designed to control stormwater runoff from multiple properties, where the owners or developers of the individual properties may assist in the financing of the facility, and the requirement for on-site controls is either eliminated or reduced.
Responsible party means, in the context of enforcement procedures, a person who is alleged to have committed, causes, continued or created a violation of the terms, requirements, regulations, or provisions of these regulations whether as a direct act, through lack of action, through neglect, or at the direction of or on behalf of others. A responsible party may be the owner of a premises where a violation has occurred; an occupant whether through ownership, lease or other tenancy; a contractor, builder or developer; an agent of or person otherwise acting on behalf of the aforementioned parties; or other person acting in violation of this chapter.
Right-of-way means any right-of-way that has been accepted by the city into the city roads, and such term includes the full width of the right-of-way, and not just width of the pavement. Such term also includes rights-of-way acquired by prescriptive easement, or pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 44-5-163 or 32-3-3, or any other means.
Riparian means belonging or related to the bank of a river, stream, lake, pond or impoundment.
Roadway drainage structure means a device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled roadway consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Runoff means stormwater runoff.
Sedimentation means the process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
Sediment solid means material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by wind, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
Service laterals (a.k.a. building sewers) means those pipes used to convey wastewater from the building or portions of a building to a main sewer. The minimum diameter for a service lateral is four inches. These sewers are privately funded and owned.
Site means the parcel of land being developed, or the portion thereof on which the land development project is located.
Site work means development activity to prepare a property for construction of buildings or finished structures, including clearing, grubbing, grading, and installation of soil sedimentation and erosion control facilities.
Soil and water conservation district approved plan means an erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan approved in writing by the Coosa River Soil and Water Conservation District.
Stabilization means the process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
Start of construction means the date the permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of the structure such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation, and includes the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include initial land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of buildings appurtenant to the permitted structure, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or part of the main structure. (Note: Accessory structures are not exempt from any ordinance requirements.) For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
State general permit means the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) general permit or permits for stormwater runoff from construction activities as is now in effect or as may be amended or reissued in the future pursuant to the state's authority to implement the same through federal delegation under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq., and O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f).
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
Stormwater better site design means nonstructural site design approaches and techniques that can reduce a site's impact on the watershed and can provide for nonstructural stormwater management. Stormwater better site design includes conserving and protecting natural areas and greenspace, reducing impervious cover and using natural features for stormwater management.
Stormwater management means the collection, conveyance, storage, treatment and disposal of stormwater runoff in a manner intended to prevent increased flood damage, streambank channel erosion, habitat degradation and water quality degradation, and to enhance and promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
Stormwater management facility means any infrastructure that controls or conveys stormwater runoff.
Stormwater management measure means any stormwater management facility or nonstructural stormwater practice.
Stormwater management plan means a document describing how existing runoff characteristics will be affected by a land development project and containing measures for complying with the provisions of this chapter.
Stormwater management system means the entire set of structural and nonstructural stormwater management facilities and practices that are used to capture, convey and control the quantity and quality of the stormwater runoff from a site.
Stormwater retrofit means a stormwater management practice designed for a currently developed site that previously had either no stormwater management practice in place or a practice inadequate to meet the stormwater management requirements of the site.
Stormwater runoff means the flow of surface water resulting from precipitation; any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
Stream means any stream, beginning at:
(1)
The location of a spring, seep, or groundwater outflow that sustains stream flow; or
(2)
A point in the stream channel with a drainage area of 25 acres or more; or
where evidence indicates the presence of a stream in a drainage area of other than 25 acres, the city may require field studies to verify the existence of a stream.
Stream bank means the sloping land that contains the stream channel and the normal flows of the stream.
Stream channel means the portion of a watercourse that contains the base flow of the stream.
Street classification will be defined in general as follows:
Arterial means a street having a minimum right-of-way of 100 feet and which is used primarily for fast and heavy traffic flow, is of considerable continuity, and is used as a traffic artery for inter-transportation between large areas.
Local means a street having a minimum right-of-way of 50 feet and which is used primarily in residential subdivisions for access to abutting properties as opposed to the collection and disbursement of traffic.
Major collector means a street having a minimum right-of-way of 80 feet and which carries traffic from activity centers and minor collector streets to arterial streets.
Minor collector means a street having a minimum right-of-way of 60 feet and which is primarily used as a link between local streets and major collectors or arterial streets.
Street classification map means a comprehensive plan of arterial, major collector, minor collector, and local streets and roads for all or a portion of the city.
Structural erosion, sedimentation and pollution control practices means practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures and sediment traps, etc. Such practices can be found in the publication, Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Structural stormwater control means a structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow of such runoff.
Structure means a walled and roofed building that is principally aboveground, a manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank.
Subdivider means any person, corporation or duly authorized agent, planner, designer, land surveyor, (landscape) architect or engineer, who undertakes the subdivision of land as defined herein.
Subdivision.
(1)
For purposes of this chapter, the term "subdivision" means:
a.
The division of a tract or parcel of land resulting in one or more new lots or building sites for the purpose, whether immediately or in the future, of sale, other transfer of ownership or land development, and includes divisions of land resulting from or made in connection with the layout or development of a new street or roadway or a change in an existing street or roadway.
b.
Any division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other parts for the purpose of immediate or future sale, legacy, or building development.
(2)
The term "subdivision" includes re-subdivision and any division of land involving a new street, existing street, or a change in existing streets, and, as appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided.
(3)
The term "subdivision" does not include the combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots, where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots meet the standards of the city, or the division of land into parcels of five acres or more, where no new streets or new utility services are involved.
Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Substantial improvement.
(1)
The term "substantial improvement" means any combination of repairs, reconstruction, alteration, or improvements to a building, taking place during a ten-year period, in which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure prior to the improvement. The market value of the building means:
a.
The appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement; or
b.
In the case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the damage occurring. The term "substantial improvement" includes structures, which have incurred substantial damage regardless of the actual amount of repair work performed.
(2)
For the purposes of this definition, substantial improvement is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
(3)
The term "substantial improvement" does not, however, include those improvements of a building required to comply with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications, which are solely necessary to ensure safe living conditions, which have been pre-identified by the city, and not solely triggered by an improvement or repair project.
Substantially improved existing manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision in which the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50 percent of the value of the streets, utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
Trout streams means all streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the wildlife resources division of the state department of natural resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20, in the rules and regulations for Water Quality Control, Chapter 391-3-6 at www.gaepd.org.
(1)
Streams designated as primary trout waters are defined as water supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout.
(2)
Streams designated as secondary trout waters are those in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction, but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year.
(3)
First order trout waters are streams into which no other streams flow except springs.
Vegetative erosion and sedimentation control measures means measures for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by covering the soil with:
(1)
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting which produces long-term vegetative cover; or
(2)
Temporary seeding which produces short-term vegetative cover; or
(3)
Sodding which covers areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
Such measures can be found in the publication, Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Violation means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure or other development without the elevation certificate, other certificates, or other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
Waiver means a grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter but which shall in no way make null the development regulations or the city zoning ordinance.
Water and sewer system. The city water department provides water and sewer in portions of the city. Portions of the city are provided with water and sewer by the county and/or the City of Cartersville.
Watercourse means any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Watershed means the land area that drains into a particular stream.
Wetlands means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
Zoning ordinance means the ordinance adopted by the mayor and council and known as the City of Emerson Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 101.10, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-12. - Violations, enforcement and penalties.
No person shall perform any activities regulated by this chapter without first meeting the requirements of this chapter prior to commencing the proposed activity. In any case in which activities are undertaken in violation of this chapter, not in compliance with the provisions of a permit issued, or without authorization of a permit which would otherwise be required, the city manager or his designee is hereby authorized to suspend or invalidate such permits, order that all unauthorized or improper work be stopped, direct correction of deficiencies, issue summonses to any court of competent jurisdiction, or take any other legal or administrative action appropriate to the severity of the violation. Any such action or inaction, which is continuous with respect to time is deemed to be a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of any of the penalties described below shall not prevent such equitable relief. The following are the enforcement procedures authorized by this chapter:
(1)
Notice of violation. If the city determines that an applicant, developer, contractor, owner or other responsible person has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a permit or the provisions of this chapter, it shall issue a written notice of violation. Where a person is engaged in activity covered by this chapter without having first secured a permit therefor, the notice of violation shall be served on the owner or the responsible person in charge of the activity being conducted on the site. The notice may be delivered personally or sent by first class mail. The notice of violation shall contain at least the following information:
a.
The name and address of the owner or the applicant or the responsible person;
b.
The address or other description of the site upon which the violation is occurring;
c.
A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
d.
A description of the remedial measures necessary to bring the action or inaction into compliance with the permit, an approved plan or this chapter and the date for the completion of such remedial action;
e.
A statement of the penalties that may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed.
(2)
Penalties. In the event the remedial measures described in the notice of violation have not been completed by the date set forth for such completion in the notice of violation, for continued violations or for violations that the severity is such that it justifies immediate action, any one or more of the following actions or penalties may be taken or assessed against the applicant, developer, contractor, owner or other responsible person:
a.
Stop-work order. The city may issue a stop-work order which shall be served on the applicant or other responsible person. The stop-work order shall remain in effect until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violation described therein, provided the stop-work order may be withdrawn or modified to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violation.
b.
Notice to comply, forfeiture of surety. If, through inspection it is determined that a person engaged in land disturbing activities has failed to comply with the approved plan, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance with the plan and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. The amount of time allowed to cure shall vary with the circumstances, from immediately in the case of an emergency, to 14 days maximum. No permits (building or otherwise) related to the project shall be issued while the permit holder is out of compliance. If the person engaged in the activity fails to comply within the time specified, he shall be deemed in violation of this chapter and, in addition to other penalties and remedies described herein, he shall be deemed to have forfeited his surety as required under the provisions of this chapter. The city may call the surety or any part thereof to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to stabilize the site of the land disturbing activity and/or bring the site into compliance.
c.
Withhold certificate of occupancy or completion. The city may refuse to issue a certificate of occupancy or completion for the building or other improvements constructed or being constructed on the site until the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein.
d.
Suspension, revocation or modification of permit. The city may suspend, revoke or modify the permit authorizing the land development project. A suspended, revoked or modified permit may be reinstated after the applicant or other responsible person has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured the violations described therein, provided such permit may be reinstated upon such conditions as the city may deem necessary to enable the applicant or other responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such violations.
e.
Refusal to approve final subdivision plats. The city is authorized to refuse to approve final plats until the owner or responsible person has taken the remedial actions or measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise corrected the violations described therein.
f.
Civil penalties. In the event the applicant or other responsible person fails to take the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or otherwise fails to cure the violations described therein within ten days, or such greater period as the city shall deem appropriate (except, that in the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, 24 hours' notice shall be sufficient) after the city has taken one or more of the actions described above, the city may impose a penalty not to exceed $2,500.00 (depending on the severity of the violation) for each day the violation remains un-remedied after receipt of the notice of violation. Civil administrative fines shall be issued by the completing, signing and service of a civil violation notice from the city manager or his designee. A stop-work order may be issued in conjunction with a civil violation form. No permits shall issue or inspections shall occur until the civil administrative fine is paid. Each day during which violation or failure or refusal to comply continues shall be a separate violation. If said penalty is not paid within the time presented by the city, the city has the right to enforce said claim in a court of competent jurisdiction and/or in the alternative to pursue the criminal penalties detailed in subsection (2)g. of this section. Additionally, the penalty shall become a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property in the amount of the assessment.
g.
Criminal penalties. For intentional and flagrant violations of this chapter, the city may issue a citation to the applicant or other responsible person, requiring such person to appear in municipal court to answer charges for such violation. Citations for violations of this chapter may be adjudicated in municipal court and the municipal court judge may issue, in addition to monetary penalties of up to $2,500.00 per day per violation, any other remedy or punishment within the court's power and jurisdiction, including jail time, community service and restitution. For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, notwithstanding any provisions in any city charter to the contrary, pursuant to the authority of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-15, municipal courts shall be authorized to impose penalty not to exceed $2,500.00 for each violation, per day.
h.
Costs of abatement of the violation. Within ten days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the assessment or to the amount of the assessment within five days of such notice. If the amount due is not paid within 30 days after receipt of the notice, or if an appeal is taken, within 30 days after a decision on said appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment. Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become liable to the city by reason of such violation.
i.
Violations deemed a public nuisance. In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is a threat to public health, safety, welfare, and environment and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief as provided by law.
j.
Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law and the city may seek cumulative remedies. The city may recover attorney's fees, court costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
k.
Other legal remedies. In any case in which a violation of this chapter has occurred, the city, in addition to other remedies provided by law, may petition for a restraining order, injunction, abatement, or take any other appropriate legal action or proceeding through a court of competent jurisdiction to prevent, restrain, or abate such unlawful use or activity. The city may institute actions in the superior court for injunctive or other relief to enforce this chapter, prevent further violations, or seek other relief, and may simultaneously seek civil penalties in that court, or any other lawful remedy.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 101.11, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-13. - Appeals.
(a)
The suspension, revocation, denial, modification or grant with condition of a permit by the city upon finding that the holder is not in compliance with the plan; or that the holder is in violation of permit conditions; or that the holder is in violation of any ordinance; shall entitle the person submitting the plan or holding the permit to a hearing before the city council within 45 days after receipt by the city of written notice of appeal, which must be received by the city within 30 days of the complained-of action.
(b)
The city manager or his designee shall present the reasons for the action and the applicant may speak in opposition. An appeal does not stay the action being appealed. If the appeal is regarding the denial of a permit, no permit shall be issued during the pendency of an appeal. If the appeal is regarding a revocation, suspension or modification of a permit, the revocation, suspension or modification of the permit shall be effective during the pendency of the appeal.
(c)
If a permit has been suspended or revoked, no work shall proceed during the pendency of the appeal.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 101.12, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-14. - Liability.
(a)
Neither the approval of a plan under the provisions of this chapter, nor the compliance with provisions of this chapter, nor the issuance of a development permit nor compliance with the conditions thereof, shall relieve any person from the responsibility for damage to any person or property otherwise imposed by law nor impose any liability upon the city, city employees or officers, the district or department for injury or damage to persons or property.
(b)
The fact that a land disturbing activity or stormwater for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof of nor create a presumption of a violation of the standards provided for in this chapter or the terms of the permit.
(c)
No provision of this chapter shall permit any persons to violate the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, the Georgia Water Quality Control Act or the rules and regulations promulgated and approved thereunder or pollute any waters of the state as defined thereby.
(d)
Approval of a permit is not a guaranty or warranty that sedimentation or soil erosion will not occur, and is not intended to provide any right or cause of action to any adjacent property owner who suffers damages as a result of sedimentation or soil erosion.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 101.13, 4-24-2017)
Secs. 105-15—105-31. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PRELIMINARY REQUIREMENTS AND MEETING

Sec. 105-32. - Procedure; minimum.
At a minimum any person wishing to develop land in the jurisdictional boundaries of the city shall:
(1)
Review the general development plans and detailed plans of the city that affect the tract to be developed and the area surrounding it and review the zoning ordinance, subdivision ordinance, flood damage prevention ordinance, this chapter, and other ordinances which regulate the development of land within the jurisdictional boundaries of the city; and
(2)
Attend an informal conceptual meeting with the city manager, and/or his designated representative, to present a general description and, if available, a preliminary plan of the proposed development project to evaluate the applicability of this and other ordinances.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 102, 4-24-2017)
Secs. 105-33—105-52. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PLAN SUBMITTAL AND REVIEW

Sec. 105-53. - Types of development.
Plan review procedures are dependent on the type of the proposed development. There are three types of developments as follows:
(1)
Subdivision developments (residential, commercial, and industrial) involving the subdividing of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or building sites.
(2)
Non-subdivision residential developments.
(3)
Non-subdivision commercial/industrial developments.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 103, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-54. - Types of plans and required contents.
The following is a general description of the various types of plans involved in land development in the city. This list does not constitute all of the types of plans that may be required but rather a general synopsis of the most utilized plan types. The city may require more information than what is listed under a specific plan type at its discretion. These listings are provided as a general guide. All plans must be submitted in English.
(1)
Preliminary plat. Conceptual street and lot layout of a subdivision with topography of not more than two-foot intervals. A plat review fee shall be required. Approval of a preliminary plat shall expire and be null and void after a period of 12 months from the date of approval unless an extension of time is approved by the city. Subdivision plats shall contain the following information:
a.
Subdivision name.
b.
Name, address and 24-hour telephone number of developer.
c.
Date including most recent revision date.
d.
Graphic scale (not to exceed one foot equals 100 feet).
e.
Location index map (approximate scale one inch equals 6,000 feet).
f.
North arrow.
g.
Land lot, district and section.
h.
Maximum sheet size 24 inches by 36 inches unless otherwise approved.
i.
Exact boundary lines of the entire tract indicated by a heavy line giving lengths and bearings.
j.
Present zoning and zoning of abutting land.
k.
Proposed street and lot layout.
l.
Proposed street names.
m.
Lot lines with approximate dimensions.
n.
Location of bold lines for phased developments.
o.
Lots numbered consecutively disregarding phasing.
p.
General notes on the plat stating total project acreage, total number of lots and lot density, minimum size of lots, minimum lot width and frontage, and required setbacks for present zoning.
q.
Existing streets, utilities, and easements on and adjacent to the tract.
r.
Provisions for water supply, sewerage, and drainage.
s.
Location of 100-year floodplain or statement that no part of the property lies within the 100-year floodplain.
t.
Minimum building front yard setback line shown graphically on the plat.
u.
Surveyors and/or engineer's stamp.
v.
Any and all other information as may be required by the city.
w.
Names of owners of record of adjoining properties.
x.
Signature statement. Statement shall read as follows:
PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL CERTIFICATE
All requirements of the City of Emerson Development Regulations relative to the preparation and submission of a preliminary plat having been fulfilled, approval of this plat is hereby granted subject to further provisions of said regulations. This certificate is effective for 12 months from the date of signing. This preliminary plat approval does not constitute approval of final plat.
EXPAND
___________ ________
Mayor Date
___________ ________
Chair, Planning Commission Date
  (2)
Final plat.
a.
Plan of subdivision, which conforms to the approved preliminary plat and the specifications required herein for recording at the clerk of the superior court. Final plats shall be required to meet the State Plat Act and the current city zoning ordinance. Prior to the submittal of the final plat for review, the following shall apply:
1.
All street and utility construction must be completed, inspected and approved;
2.
All property corner pins must be installed;
3.
As-built drawings must be submitted; and
4.
Bonding requirements, if applicable, satisfied.
b.
Once the approval from the designated city departments have been obtained and the chairperson of the planning commission and mayor have approved and signed the final plat, the developer shall submit the plat to the clerk of the superior court of Bartow County for recording. Upon recording of the final plat, the developer shall provide four hard copies of the plat and an electronic version of the plat in AutoCAD (2004 or newer) format to the city.
c.
The final plat shall contain the following information:
1.
Sheet size no larger than 18 inches by 24 inches.
2.
Exact boundary lines of the tract by bearings and distances determined by a field survey.
3.
Field survey error of closure not to exceed one to 10,000.
4.
Equipment used in field survey.
5.
Calculated error of closure of plat.
6.
Present zoning and zoning of abutting land.
7.
Exact locations, R/W widths, and names of all streets that immediately adjoin the subdivision.
8.
Appropriate data for all streets, lot lines, and centerlines as required by the city and according to the requirements of the state for professional surveyors and engineers.
9.
General notes on the plat stating total project acreage, total number of lots and lot density, minimum size of lots, minimum lot width and frontage, and required setbacks for present zoning.
10.
Lots shall be numbered consecutively; divisions shall be made by units or phases.
11.
Each lot's area in square feet or acres.
12.
Deed book and page number of protective covenants if any.
13.
Accurate location, material, and description of all monuments and markers.
14.
Location of sidewalks.
15.
Location of all easements.
16.
Required buffers and recreational areas (if any).
17.
Land lot lines accurately tied to the lines of the subdivision by distance and angles when such lines traverse or are reasonably close to the subdivision.
18.
All surveys and plats must be prepared by a state certified engineer and/or surveyor.
19.
Location of 100-year floodplain or statement that no part of the property lies within the 100-year floodplain.
20.
Any and all other information as required by the city.
21.
The following certificate statements shall be shown on the plat:
Owner's Certificate
The owner of the land shown on this plat and whose name is subscribed hereto, in person or through a duly authorized agent, certifies that this plat was made from an actual survey, that all state, city and county taxes or other assessments now due on this land have been paid, that all streets, water systems drains and drainage easements, and public places are dedicated to the use of the public forever.
EXPAND
___________ ________
Owner Date
  Surveyor's Certificate
It is hereby certified that this plat is true and correct and was prepared from an actual survey of the property by me or under my supervision, that all monuments shown hereon actually exist or are marked "future" and their location, size, type and material are correctly shown, and that all requirements of the development and zoning regulations, including engineering requirements have been fully complied with.
EXPAND
___________ ________
Surveyor Date
___________
Registered Georgia Land Surveyor No.
  City of Emerson Certificate:
In accordance to the City of Emerson Development Regulations and the city's Zoning Ordinance, all requirements of approval have been fulfilled; this plat was given final approval by the following city officials and personnel and on behalf of the City of Emerson:
EXPAND
___________ ________
Mayor Date
___________ ________
Chair, Planning Commission Date
  Covenants, if separately recorded:
This plat is subject to the covenants set forth in the separate document attached hereto dated _____, which hereby become a part of this plat, and which were recorded in plat book _____, page ___.
(3)
Conceptual plan. Conceptual layout of proposed construction where no subdivision of land is to occur. A review fee shall be required. Approval of a conceptual plan shall expire and be null and void after a period of 12 months from the date of approval unless an extension of time is approved by the city. Conceptual plans shall contain the following information:
a.
Subdivision name (if applicable).
b.
Name, address and 24-hour telephone number of developer.
c.
Date including most recent revision date.
d.
Graphic scale (not to exceed one inch equals 100 feet).
e.
Location index map (approximate scale one foot equals 6,000 feet).
f.
North arrow.
g.
Land lot, district and section.
h.
Exact boundary lines of the entire tract indicated by a heavy line giving lengths and bearings.
i.
Present zoning and zoning of abutting land.
j.
Proposed layout.
k.
Topography of not more than two-foot intervals.
l.
Location of bold lines for phased developments.
m.
Existing streets, utilities, and easements on and adjacent to the tract.
n.
Provisions for water supply, sewerage, and drainage.
o.
Location of 100-year floodplain or statement that no part of the property lies within the 100-year floodplain.
p.
Minimum building setback line shown graphically on the plan.
q.
Any and all other information as may be required by the city.
r.
Names of owners of record of adjoining properties.
s.
Signature statement. Statement shall read as follows:
Conceptual Plan Approval Certificate
All requirements of the City of Emerson Development Regulations relative to the preparation and submission of a conceptual plan having been fulfilled, approval of this plan is hereby granted subject to further provisions of said regulations. This certificate is effective for 12 months from the date of signing. This conceptual plan approval does not constitute approval of construction plans.
EXPAND
___________ ________
Mayor Date
___________ ________
Chair, Planning Commission Date
  (4)
Construction plans. Detailed design plans of proposed infrastructure improvements. A review fee shall be required. Approval of construction plans shall expire and be null and void after a period of 12 months from the date of approval unless an extension is granted by the city. Construction plans shall contain the following information:
a.
The project surveyor shall provide a signed statement indicating records of the property have been researched and no abandoned landfills or waste disposal sites are located in the proximity of proposed water line extension.
b.
Site plan with streets, street names, topography with contour lines at two-foot intervals, location map, lot layout (if subdivision) or building location (if multifamily, commercial or industrial), proposed location of future sidewalks, land lots, district, and North arrow showing the water layout only.
c.
Proposed pipe size and service lateral locations.
d.
Location and size of gate valves and air release valves.
e.
Thrust blocks at all bends, tees, and plugs.
f.
Fire hydrant locations.
g.
Water system materials.
h.
Location and sizes of existing water mains surrounding the project, with nearest line valve in each direction of proposed tie in.
i.
Detail of connection to existing lines.
j.
Proposed meter sizes and locations.
k.
Residential developments shall have the electric transformer locations indicated. (This is necessary to verify no conflicts exist with water meter and fire hydrant locations.)
l.
Plan of fire line meters or detector meters, if applicable.
m.
Any proposed off-site cross-county water mains or mains on existing right-of-way should be shown at a scale no smaller than 1:100.
n.
Any other items incidental to the proposed system.
o.
All plans must display the "Utilities Protection Center" logo and "Call Before You Dig" notice.
p.
Preliminary plat or conceptual plan submitted with construction plans.
q.
Sidewalks.
r.
Show location of all wells within 100 feet of property or certify that there are no wells, if lots are served by septic tank.
s.
Names of all utility companies.
t.
Show location of any landfills or debris or garbage disposal sites on the property.
u.
All plans for public sewer facilities shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements of article IV of this chapter and as required in regulations promulgated by the state environmental protection division. The developer shall be responsible for submitting plans and other data to the state EPD for required approvals as described elsewhere in this chapter. The following requirements will apply to preparation of sewer construction plans:
1.
The site plan shall show land lots, district and North arrow, lot layout, and existing and proposed building locations. The site plan shall also show all existing and proposed streets and their names, all streams, water courses, existing and proposed storm drains, and the discharge points for all drainage structures. The site plan shall accurately show the topography with contour lines at two-foot intervals. Elevations shall be referenced to mean sea level and plans shall note the location of the specific USGS Vertical Elevation Marker used for deriving site elevations. The site plan shall show the sewer layout with existing and proposed lines, manhole numbers, line designation and direction of flow, and proposed sewer easements and other utility easements. It shall also show the location of proposed services.
2.
The design of cross country sewer lines and force mains shall be based on field run surveys. The site plan for cross country sewer lines and force mains need not show contour intervals on the plan view, but the profile views shall accurately depict ground level elevations and elevations of all relevant structures. Site plans for lift stations shall show existing and proposed contours. In the event the subdivision is developed in phases, the final construction plans for sewers may be submitted in phases or units. However, at the time the first phase is submitted, the engineer will submit one copy of the preliminary layout of the entire sewer system. This layout will show all lines required to serve any lots to be developed and any surrounding property that may be served through the property. The site plans for each phase or unit shall contain a location drawing showing the relationship of the phase or unit to the total project and to the surrounding streets and sewers.
3.
Profiles should have a horizontal scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch for cross country lines and 50 feet to the inch for congested areas, and a vertical scale of not more than ten feet to the inch. The plan view should be drawn to a corresponding horizontal scale. The plan view should normally be shown on the same sheet as the profile. In any case both the plan and profile view should have line designations, station numbers, manhole numbers and any other indexing necessary to easily correlate the plan and profile view.
4.
Plans and profiles shall show:
(i)
Location of streets, sewers and utility easements.
(ii)
Profile of ground surface, the grade of the sewer between each two adjacent manholes, size and material of pipe, length between manholes, invert of sewer in and out of each manhole, and ground surface elevation at each manhole. All manholes shall be numbered on the plan and correspondingly numbered on the profile and station numbers will be shown for each manhole. The profile of adjacent parallel stream beds and of adjacent lake surfaces, low buildings, and lots shall be shown on the profile.
(iii)
Locations of all special features such as connection to existing sewers, concrete encasements, collar walls, ductile iron pipe sections, elevated sewers, piers, special manhole covers such as vented outfall covers or sealed covers, etc.
(iv)
All known existing structures both above and below ground which might interfere with the proposed construction, particularly water mains, gas mains, storm drains, utility conduits, etc.
(v)
The vertical datum used shall be the elevation above mean sea level with benchmarks shown on the plans.
5.
Detail drawings/sewer details. Special detail drawings made to a scale to clearly show the nature of the design shall be furnished to show the following particulars:
(i)
All stream crossings and storm drain outlets with elevations of the stream bed and of normal and extreme high and low water levels.
(ii)
Details of special sewer joints and cross-sections.
(iii)
Details of special sewer appurtenances such as manholes, service connections, elevated sewers, piers, pipe bedding, special highway crossings, railroad crossings, etc.
(iv)
Additional notes below:
A.
It is the developer's responsibility to address any wetland issues to the satisfaction of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
B.
It is the developer's responsibility to abide by all the rules and regulations pertaining to the state national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit requirements.
C.
It is the developer's responsibility to abide by all the rules and regulations pertaining to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service if applicable.
Construction Plan Approval Certificate
All requirements of the City of Emerson Development Regulations relative to the preparation and submission of construction plans having been fulfilled, approval of the plans is hereby granted subject to further provisions of said regulations. This certificate is effective for 12 months from the date of signing. This construction plan approval does not constitute approval of final plat.
EXPAND
___________ ________
City Manager Date
  (Ord. No. 2017-005, § 103.1, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-55. - Outside agency approval.
(a)
The developer is required to obtain approval of any outside regulatory agencies as required for the project. The developer shall notify the city before submittal to any outside regulatory agency. Upon approval from an outside regulatory agency the developer shall submit an original copy of the approved plans to the city. No permit shall be issued until copies of outside agency approvals have been received.
(b)
Approval of a plan set by an outside regulatory agency does not constitute approval of a plan by the city. When a plan set requires modifications by the city extensive enough to warrant resubmittal the developer shall resubmit to that outside regulatory agency and obtain approval for the modifications. Examples of outside regulatory agencies include, but are not limited to, state soil and water conservation (NRCS), state environmental protection division (GAEPD water and sewer) fire marshal, state department of transportation, etc.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 103.2, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-56. - Submittal packages.
When a developer is prepared to submit plans for review to the city, a submittal package must be composed. A submittal package consists of, but is not limited to:
(1)
Plan application. Applications for the varying plans may be obtained from the city. The developer shall complete the application in its entirety.
(2)
Plan review fees. Fees should be submitted as outlined in the city fee schedule. If payment for the fees is not submitted at this time the city should not accept the plans nor should a review of the plans be made. Should the fees submitted not be sufficient to cover the cost, the city should not provide review comments or approval until such time as fees have been submitted.
(3)
Permit application. Applications for the varying permits may be obtained from the city. The developer shall complete the application in its entirety.
(4)
Plan sets. The developer shall submit a sufficient number of plans as dictated by the city. The number of plans required will be dependent on the type of plan submitted. A .pdf version of each plan submitted must be provided on CD.
(5)
Outside agency approval. Any outside regulatory agency approval should be presented with the submittal package. No permit shall be issued without original copies of all outside regulatory agency approvals submitted to the city.
(6)
Waivers. Any waivers required should be included for review by the city.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 103.3, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-57. - Waivers.
If the developer wishes to vary any of the requirements of the development regulations as a part of the plan approval procedure, those requested changes shall be set forth on a form as provided by the city. The city manager shall be authorized to grant waivers to the provisions of the development regulations. However, if a waiver is not specifically approved by the city manager, it shall not be considered to have been granted. For example, approval of the site plan shall not constitute approval of waivers depicted graphically but not approved by the city manager. The city manager may utilize the assistance of outside experts in the specific field of the requested waiver to assist with the decision. At the discretion of the city manager, a decision on a waiver may be placed on the city council agenda for a decision. A waiver is not transferable from one plan set to the next, excluding revisions to plan sets, even if a waiver was previously granted for the same tract of land, parcel, area or development. Each plan set, excluding revisions to plan sets, must establish the justification for a waiver. The application fee for a waiver will be as shown on the approved fee schedule as set by the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 103.4, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-58. - Plan review.
The city may utilize any resources deemed necessary to review plans to ensure conformance with this chapter. Unless required under law the time required to review plans shall be as deemed necessary by the city.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 103.5, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-59. - Review fees.
The city utilizes outside contractors to perform plan reviews for most types of plan sets. Plan review fees will be based upon the actual cost of plan reviews plus administrative costs associated with each review. The city maintains a fee schedule with average costs of plan review fees which are due at time of submittal. Actual costs may vary and any amount due will be required to be paid before any permits, approvals, etc., will be issued.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 103.6, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-60. - Plan approval.
(a)
Approved plans shall be valid for a period not to exceed 12 months from the date of approval unless an extension in writing is granted.
(b)
Approval of construction plans shall expire 12 months from the date of approval without the issuance of a building permit from the city.
(c)
If a discrepancy occurs between the approved plans and the city's development standards, unless a waiver has been obtained, the development standards shall be the superseding document.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 103.7, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-61. - Changes from approved plans.
Any changes from the approved plans will require that the engineer submit revised drawings along with a request explaining the reason for the change prior to construction of the change. Any deviation from city standards will be considered a major change as will any change that will affect capacity, longevity, operation or maintenance of the facility. Any deviation from approved materials will not be accepted without prior approval.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 103.8, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-62. - Pre-construction conference.
The developer is required to schedule a meeting with the city and all public and/or private utilities for the purpose of discussing the construction and inspection of the proposed development. The pre-construction conference is required before the issuance of any permits unless waived by all affected city departments.
(1)
Schedule a pre-construction meeting with the city manager or his representative and other city and regulatory agency representatives prior to start of any construction. The contractor's superintendent shall attend the meeting. The date and time of the meeting shall be as scheduled by the city manager. Such pre-construction meeting shall not relieve the contractor from cooperating should the city or other regulatory agencies desire additional meetings or visits.
(2)
Submit a proposed construction schedule to the city at the pre-construction meeting.
(3)
Perform work in a sequence to be agreed to at the pre-construction meeting, unless otherwise directed.
(4)
Coordinate with related construction projects of the city or by others, if any.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 103.9, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-63. - Insurance.
(a)
Prior to the issuance of any permit which includes the construction or installation of infrastructure to be dedicated to the city within rights-of-way, easements, or other property either owned by, to be dedicated, conveyed, or used by the city said contractor, property owner, or entity working on said property for himself and for all subcontractors must provide the city a liability insurance certificate of $1,000,000.00 in general liability insurance listing the city as a co-insured or indicating that coverage under said policy is provided for the city.
(b)
Said certificate shall be presented to the city manager prior to the issuance of any construction related permits, and must be approved by him prior to the issuance of any construction related permits.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 103.10, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-64. - Performance bonds.
The city shall require the submittal of a performance bond or irrevocable letter of credit prior to issuance of a permit in order to ensure that the infrastructure is installed by the developer or his contractor as required by the approved plan. The performance security shall contain forfeiture provisions for failure to function and perform as intended and for failure to complete such work as specified in the approved plan. The amount of the installation performance security shall be for 125 percent of the total estimated construction cost. Construction costs shall be determined by cost tabulation sheets provided by the developer. The city reserves the right to verify the costs provided through utilization of outside sources.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 103.11, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-65. - Permits.
(a)
No construction shall be allowed until a construction permit has been issued by the city. The contractor shall submit one copy of the approved construction plans which have been stamped approved. The contractor shall furnish his name, address, and telephone number. He shall also furnish the name of the person in charge of the project and any subcontractors and the name and telephone number of a responsible person who can be contacted in case of emergencies during nonworking hours.
(b)
The contractor shall notify the city 24 hours prior to doing any work. Once the contractor begins work, he shall proceed in a workmanlike manner and shall complete the work in a reasonable time without undue off days and periods of inactivity which make it hard for the city to keep up with his activity.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 103.12, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-66. - Working hours.
Developers and contractors shall limit work to the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. The city may allow work outside of these hours on a case-by-case basis. Should the developer desire to work outside of these hours, a request should be submitted in writing to the city manager. If the request is approved, a written approval will be provided and must be displayed within the permit board.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 103.13, 4-24-2017)
Secs. 105-67—105-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - CONSTRUCTION SITE

Sec. 105-91. - Safety and security.
(a)
Contractors are solely and fully responsible for the protection and safety of the site of the work, including the public, the workmen, the city's employees and representatives, and other regulatory personnel.
(b)
Contractors shall provide all construction aids and equipment required for job safety, for protection of the public, to facilitate execution of the work and to facilitate access by the city representatives and regulatory personnel.
(c)
Contractors shall provide fences, barriers, lights, signs, ladders, sheeting, shoring, railings, hoists, and other such facilities and equipment and maintain all such facilities and equipment in like new condition.
(d)
Contractors shall comply with traffic control and safety requirements of local authorities and any state DOT permits applicable to the work.
(e)
Contractors shall provide and operate traffic control and directional signals, barricades, warning signs, etc., to direct and maintain an orderly safe flow of traffic in all areas affected by the contractor's operations.
(f)
All traffic control signs, barricades, etc., shall be clean, in a like new condition, and easily seen and read. Old, faded, and/or dirty signs will not be allowed at the site and shall be replaced.
(g)
Contractors shall provide qualified and suitably equipped flaggers whenever and wherever construction operations encroach on traffic lanes, as required for regulation of traffic, and/or as required by applicable DOT permits, and/or the city representatives.
(h)
Contractors shall provide lights at night and during periods of low visibility to clearly delineate traffic lanes and to alert traffic to construction operations underway.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 104.1, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-92. - Site conditions.
(a)
Access to the existing facilities and private property shall be maintained at all times; provide crushed stone, cover plates, or temporary pavement as necessary to maintain roadways in a safe and passable condition at all times until the permanent roadway surface is repaired.
(b)
All existing benchmarks, monuments, and other reference points shall be carefully protected. Replacement, if required, shall be by a licensed land surveyor at the contractor's cost.
(c)
All work required on public rights-of-way will be conducted in strict conformance with rules, regulations, and permit conditions of governing bodies having jurisdiction.
(d)
If articles of historical or archaeological value, including coins, fossils, and articles of antiquity are uncovered, all construction activities in the vicinity shall be stopped and the city shall be notified immediately. All such articles of historical or archaeological value found in the public rights-of-way shall remain the property of the city.
(e)
Blasting operations for rock removal shall not be conducted within six feet of the edge of any public roadway pavement. All blasting operations will require approval of the city.
(f)
Existing grades on the site must be checked prior to starting. Beginning of any grading shall constitute acceptance of the existing site conditions.
(g)
Prior to starting any excavation, the Utilities Protection Center "Call Before You Dig" must be contacted; telephone number is 811.
(h)
Allowable borrow or waste areas, unless designated on the drawings, shall be approved by the city prior to start of construction.
(i)
All unsuitable excavated material must be properly disposed of in a manner acceptable to the city and in a manner that will not adversely impact the environment.
(j)
The bypassing of raw wastewater onto the ground or into a receiving stream is prohibited.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 104.2, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-93. - Temporary utilities.
The following must be provided:
(1)
Temporary electric power service to the site for the duration of construction activities as required.
(2)
Temporary lighting for the site as necessary for safety, for construction operations, and for the contractor's and city's quality control inspections.
(3)
Temporary telephone service to the site. The contractor's personnel shall have a functional cell telephone activated at the site at all times that construction activities are taking place.
(4)
Trash containers for the site to properly dispose of all trash, debris and garbage as necessary to keep the site clean and sanitary at all times, including storage and parking area, along access roads, and haul routes.
(5)
Temporary water as needed for construction activities on the site.
(6)
Required toilet facilities and enclosures and maintained in clean and sanitary condition for workmen's use.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 104.3, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-94. - Environmental controls.
The following environmental controls are required:
(1)
Compliance with all local, state, and federal (OSHA) noise control requirements. Limit all operations, except during emergencies, to daylight periods when noise from operations will not disturb residential neighborhoods.
(2)
Positive dust control methods at the site and all off-site borrow areas. Apply water or other dust control materials as required to minimize dust emissions from construction operations, and provide positive means to prevent air-borne dust from dispersing into the atmosphere at all times. Prevent dust being a nuisance to the public, the neighbors, and a detriment to the performance of work at the site.
(3)
Methods to control surface water to prevent damage to the stored materials, installed work, the site, and adjoining properties. Control all earthwork filling, grading and ditching to direct surface drainage away from excavations, pits, tunnels and other construction areas; and to direct drainage to proper runoff.
(4)
Maintenance of the site and all areas under the contractor's control free of extraneous debris and prevent accumulation of debris at construction site, storage and parking areas, or along access roads.
(5)
Methods, means and facilities required to prevent contamination of soil, water or atmosphere by the discharge or spills of noxious substances from construction operations. Take special measures to prevent harmful substances from entering public waters. Prevent disposal of wastes, effluent, chemicals, or other such substances adjacent to streams, or in sanitary or storm sewers.
(6)
No clearing or grading operations are to begin until a land disturbance permit has been issued. Periodically inspect excavated or disturbed areas to detect any evidence of the start of erosion, apply corrective measures as required to control erosion. Provide supplementary erosion and runoff control measures when it becomes apparent that additional problems exist.
(7)
Removal of all temporary facilities and controls from the site promptly upon completion of the work.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 104.4, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-95. - Access to project.
Authorized representatives of the city, which may include city employees, the city engineer or his representative, state or federal agencies, shall have access to the site for inspection at any time.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 104.5, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-96. - City inspection.
(a)
The developer's contractor will be responsible for the quality, accuracy and workmanship of his completed work.
(b)
City personnel will visit the job site on a periodic basis and will make spot checks as they deem appropriate. The city shall have the right to review and inspect all construction and may reject any work that does not meet quality control standards. The city maintains the right to refuse performing inspections at unsafe worksites.
(c)
The city inspector may direct that the contractor notify the city and receive inspection approval prior to concealing certain work such as manhole foundations, pipe bedding, tees, bends, service laterals, or other appurtenances. At the city's discretion, the city may require work to be uncovered which was not inspected prior to backfilling.
(d)
Cost for all inspections and testing shall be paid for by the developer.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 104.6, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-97. - Other testing requirements.
The city reserves the right to require further testing or more stringent inspections for any reason to ensure quality workmanship and materials.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 104.7, 4-24-2017)
Secs. 105-98—105-122. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - CLOSE OUT

Sec. 105-123. - Final inspection and conditional acceptance.
(a)
The contractor shall request in writing a final inspection. This final inspection will generally include spot checks and a complete overview of the project.
(b)
After any discrepancies are corrected and all other requirements of this chapter are satisfied, the city will issue a letter certifying conditional acceptance of any infrastructure intended to be dedicated to the city for non-subdivision developments. This letter shall commence the start of the 18-month warranty period which is required of the contractor. On projects having phased development, this letter will allow the developer to apply for a permit for the next phase of development.
(c)
For subdivision developments the acceptance by the city council of the final plat shall begin the warranty period.
(d)
The performance bond or letter of credit will be released by the city upon conditional acceptance.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 105.1, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-124. - Eighteen-month maintenance.
(a)
The developer shall maintain the improvements in his development for a period of 18 months from the date the city issues approval of the final plat for subdivisions or a conditional acceptance letter for non-subdivision developments. At the end of the 18-month maintenance period, the city shall perform an inspection of the development and all improvements. The developer shall be notified by the city of the inspection results in writing within 30 days from the date of the inspection. The maintenance bond shall be released upon the issuance of a letter stating approval of the development by the city. (The final plat shall note said maintenance period and note the date that street dedication to the city shall occur.)
(b)
If repairs are needed at the end of the 18-month maintenance period in order for the improvements to meet city specifications, the developer shall be required to make such repairs within 60 days, after written notification by the city. If the repairs are not completed within said time, and the developer fails to show a legitimate hardship, as determined by the city, which inhibits the completion of the repairs, the maintenance bond shall be called in to pay for the repairs. Should the amount of the maintenance bond be inadequate to pay for the repairs, the developer shall pay the remaining amount. The following procedures shall apply in this situation:
(1)
The city shall notify the developer in writing of such action.
(2)
Upon completion of necessary maintenance repairs, the developer shall request in writing to the city for inspection of the maintenance repairs. The city shall make said inspection and in turn notify the developer of the inspection results.
(3)
If the work is free from defects, and the improvements are in compliance with city specifications, the city shall provide written approval to the developer of said compliance and the maintenance bond shall be released.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 105.2, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-125. - Maintenance bonds.
(a)
The maintenance bond or letter of credit shall be for a period of 24 months. This covers the cost of maintaining the project for a period of 18 months from the date the city issues approval of the final plat or project plus six months, if needed, to complete necessary deficiencies.
(b)
The maintenance bond or letter of credit shall be for a minimum of 50 percent of the total cost of the project. In its discretion the city may utilize an engineer to determine the amount of the bond or letter of credit. The bond or letter of credit shall be payable to the City of Emerson.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 105.3, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-126. - Certificate of dedication/deed of dedication and maintenance agreement.
(a)
Upon issuance of the maintenance bond as provided above, the developer shall execute a certificate of dedication and maintenance agreement as provided by the city. All streets and rights-of-way shown upon the final plat, together with all other public improvements shall be dedicated to the city either in fee simple or by perpetual easement, as appropriate. The certificate of dedication shall be recorded by the developer in the office of the clerk of the superior court of Bartow County. The developer shall also furnish to the city an opinion by an attorney acceptable to the city that title records have been examined and that marketable fee simple title was vested in the developer at time of recording of the certificate. The city reserves the right to refuse said dedication for reasons related to construction or maintenance.
(b)
The maintenance agreement shall obligate the developer, his successors and assigns to maintain the streets and improvements for a period of 18 months from date of written acceptance by the city and to correct or repair the same as required by the city. Furthermore, the developer, his successors and assigns, shall agree to hold the city harmless and indemnify the city from liabilities arising from defects in design, installation and/or maintenance during the maintenance period.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 105.4, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-127. - Easements.
(a)
All areas containing infrastructure to be dedicated to the city or where access is required per this chapter a recordable executed easement shall be dedicated to the city. All easements shall include a plat. Easements required for a development that are off-site shall be obtained, approved and recorded before any plan approvals are issued.
(b)
The city shall be provided a minimum 20-foot perpetual easement with the right to erect, construct, install, lay and thereafter use, operate, inspect, repair, maintain, replace and remove utility components and any other required equipment, together with the right of ingress and egress over the adjacent land of the development. Easements shall be a minimum of 20 feet wide, ten feet on each side of the line; except that when the depth of the utility exceeds ten feet, the required easement width shall increase such that the easement width is at least twice the depth from the ground surface to bottom of the pipe.
(c)
During the period of construction, required future maintenance or reconstruction, said easement shall be enlarged to such reasonable width as to facilitate the operation, repair, or installation of equipment, after which installation, repair or reconstruction, the width of said easement shall be reduced, and the city shall, as soon as practicable, restore the condition in which said land was before construction or repair, insofar as reasonably possible, without expense to the undersigned; provided, however, the city shall not be responsible for any shrubbery, trees or other ornamentals planted or buildings, fences, sidewalks or other structures within said easement but shall only be responsible for reseeding the grass cover.
(d)
The developer agrees that the easement is an exclusive agreement to the city and no other use whatsoever may be made of said easement nor shall any shrubbery, trees, plants, buildings, fences, sidewalks or other structures be placed upon said easement without the express written consent of the city. In the event any such shrubbery, trees, plants, buildings, fences, sidewalks or other structures are placed within said easement without written approval, the developer will remove the same at the developer's sole expense.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 105.5, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-128. - As-built.
(a)
Approved as-built drawings shall be required before the final plat is recorded for subdivisions or before a certificate of occupancy is issued for commercial and industrial sites and must be the same format as the original construction plans.
(b)
All as-built drawings must be on standard 24-inch by 36-inch sheets with a maximum scale of one inch equals 50 feet.
(c)
"As-Built" or "Record Drawing" is to be indicated in large clear print on the plans.
(d)
All plans must be in English.
(e)
Electronic files must also be submitted in AutoCAD (2004 or newer), Portable Document Format (PDF) and ESRI format. Files must be geo-referenced and include all construction and project details, which truly reflect the final project as it was constructed.
(f)
All datum shall be Georgia West State Plane and NAVD88 respectively.
(g)
The water system as-builts shall show locations of fire hydrants, lines, valves, valve elevation, fittings, water main sizes, and types of materials.
(h)
Sanitary sewer system as-builts shall show locations of manholes, lines, services, line sizes, types of materials, profiles, manhole inverts, and line grades.
(i)
Street as-builts shall show street layout, profiles, and grades.
(j)
Storm sewer system as-builts shall show impervious surface, locations of drainage structures and lines, line sizes and types of material, profiles and detention ponds.
(k)
Commercial site layout as-builts in addition to water, sanitary sewer, and storm sewer, as-builts shall include, but not be limited to, the following final locations of buildings, entrances, parking, and grading.
(l)
Casing location, material and elevation at end of pipe is required.
(m)
Contour lines at two-foot intervals are required.
(n)
Sprinkler system as-builts with head count are required.
(o)
Road names and street/lot numbers are required.
(p)
Lateral line ends must show distance from downstream manhole, depth and offset distance from the main line.
(q)
Show elevations of manhole inverts and top.
(r)
Show field-measured distance between manholes.
(s)
For any sewer or storm lines, which are outside of paved streets, show the field-measured azimuth or bearing of the line from manhole to manhole.
(t)
Show actual slope of all sewer and storm piping.
(u)
Location sketch.
(v)
Maximum error of as-built measurements shall be:
(1)
Manhole inverts. Measure to 0.10 foot with maximum vertical error of 0.15 foot per 1,000 feet of horizontal traverse.
(2)
Manhole tops. Measure to 0.10 foot with maximum vertical error of 0.50 foot per 1,000 feet of horizontal traverse.
(3)
Horizontal locations. Measure to nearest one foot with allowable error of one foot per 1,000 feet of traverse.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 105.6, 4-24-2017)
Sec. 105-129. - Engineer/developer certifications.
Before acceptance of a final plat or issuance of a conditional acceptance, the city may require various types of engineer and/or developer certifications depending on the type of development. The developer should ensure that these forms are obtained and completed prior to close out.
(Ord. No. 2017-005, § 105.7, 4-24-2017)
Secs. 105-130—105-156. - Reserved.
