Chapter 47 - SOLID WASTE
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 47-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Approved container means the receptacle provided by the city or its authorized agent for placement of garbage and rubbish.
Bins means receptacles made of plastic with a capacity of 18 gallons or less, and used for the purpose of curbside collection of certain recyclable materials.
Bulky waste means stoves, refrigerators, water heaters, automobile parts, washing machines, furniture, and other waste materials other than construction debris, dead animals or hazardous waste with weights or volumes greater than those allowed for approved containers.
Cart means a receptacle, not to exceed 95 gallons, with wheels and lid, designed for the purpose of curbside collection of refuse which shall be provided by the city or its authorized agent.
Commercial establishment means any hotel, motel, apartment house, roominghouse, business, industrial, public or semipublic establishment of any nature or kind whatsoever, including a condominium and multifamily residential unit and excluding a residential unit.
Commercial solid waste means refuse from a commercial establishment, including but not limited to waste material from industrial processes, manufacturing processes, slaughterhouses, packing plants, poultry processing plants, or similar industries, and large quantities of waste foods. The term "commercial solid waste" also includes waste material from the construction, remodeling and repair operations on houses, commercial buildings, multiple dwelling and other structures, such as concrete, bricks, plaster, stone, earth, lumber, roofing materials, gutters, shavings and sawdust. The term "commercial solid waste" shall not include any hazardous wastes.
Condominium means individual ownership units in a multifamily structure with a front and back entrance to each unit on the ground level.
Construction debris means waste building materials resulting from construction, remodeling, repair or demolition operations.
Dead animals means animals or portions thereof equal to or greater than ten pounds in weight that have expired from any cause, except those slaughtered or killed for human use.
Dumpster means a metal receptacle designed to be lifted and emptied mechanically for use primarily at commercial establishments which receptacle shall be provided by the city or its authorized agent.
Garbage means putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food, including waste from markets, storage facilities, handling and sale of produce and other food products, except such materials that may be serviced by garbage grinders and any or all dead animals less than ten pounds in weight. The term "garbage" shall not include any hazardous wastes as defined herein.
Hazardous waste means any chemical, compound, mixture, substance or article which is designated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or appropriate agency of the state to be hazardous as that term is defined by or pursuant to federal or state law or regulations. The term "hazardous waste" includes but is not limited to batteries, tires, paint and paint cans and bulky waste containing chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and freon gas.
Landfill means an area of land on which or an excavation in which solid waste is placed for permanent disposal and which is not a land application unit, surface impoundment, injection well or compost pile.
Multifamily residential unit means individual units in a multifamily structure which units are not separately owned but are owned by one common entity.
Open dump means a disposal facility of which solid waste from one or more sources is consolidated and left to decompose, burn, or to otherwise create a threat to human health or the environment.
Owner means any person owning, leasing, renting, occupying or managing any premises in the jurisdiction of the city council.
Putrescible waste means wastes that are capable of being decomposed by microorganisms. Examples of putrescible waste include but are not necessarily limited to kitchen wastes, animal manure, offal, hatchery and poultry processing plant wastes, and garbage.
Reclamation means a controlled method for sorting and storing material from solid wastes for future uses.
Recyclable materials means materials which have a known use, reuse, or recycling potential; which can be feasibly used, reused, or recycled; and have been diverted or taken from the waste stream for reclamation by sale, use, reuse or recycling, whether or not they require subsequent separation and processing. Such materials are not considered solid waste upon removal from the waste stream.
Recycling means any process by which reclaimed materials or other materials that could otherwise become solid waste are collected, separated or processed and reused or returned to use in the form of raw materials or products.
Refuse refers to all garbage and rubbish generated at a residential unit, condominium, multifamily residential unit or commercial establishment unless the context otherwise requires. The term "refuse" shall not include any hazardous wastes.
Residential unit means any freestanding structure containing one to four separate units, each of which is used or constructed for use as a residence and each of which is provided a cart.
Rubbish means nonputrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and noncombustible wastes. The term "rubbish" includes discarded waste paper, cartons, boxes, wood, metals, cans, glass, crockery, used and discarded clothing, dunnage and/or similar materials.
Sanitary landfill means a disposal site where putrescible solid wastes are disposed of by means of placing an earth cover thereon and which is approved by the state department of natural resources for such purpose.
Solid waste means discarded putrescible and nonputrescible waste, except water-carried body waste and recyclable materials and includes garbage, rubbish, cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture and appliances, metal, tin cans, glass, crockery, or dunnage, ashes, street refuse, dead animals, sewage sludges, animal manures, industrial waste, such as waste materials generated in industrial operations, residue from incineration, food processing waste, demolition waste, abandoned vehicles, dredging waste, construction waste and any other waste material in a solid, semisolid or liquid state not otherwise defined in this chapter. The term "solid waste" shall not include any hazardous wastes as defined herein.
Special waste means any solid, liquid, semisolid, gaseous material and associated containers generated as a direct or indirect result of a manufacturing process or from the removal of contaminant from the air, water or land.
Waste stream means the total flow of solid waste from residential units, commercial establishments, condominiums, apartments, institutions and the like to its ultimate disposal site or facility.
Yard waste means grass clippings, leaves, trimmings, tree trunks, limbs, sticks, and other organic matter discarded from yards and gardens.
(Code 1966, § 19B-1; Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-2. - Relationship between city and its authorized agent.
This chapter shall not govern the relationship between the city and its authorized agent for solid waste and recyclables collection. That relationship will be governed solely by the terms and conditions of a contract to be entered into by the city and the authorized agent, which may not be modified, altered or nullified by this chapter or any amendments thereto.
(Code 1966, § 19B-19; Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Secs. 47-3—47-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION PRACTICES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 47-23. - Collection by city.
All refuse accumulated in the city shall be collected, conveyed and disposed of by the city or its authorized agent. All refuse accumulated in the city shall be collected, conveyed and disposed of by the city under the supervision of the city administrator or by the authorized agent of the city. The city administrator shall have the authority to make regulations concerning the administration of this article as he finds necessary, and to change and modify the same after notice as required by law, provided that such regulations are not contrary to the provisions hereof.
(Code 1966, § 19B-2; Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-24. - Accumulation.
No owner shall allow the accumulation on his premises of solid waste where such solid waste creates or may create a health hazard to neighbors or other citizens, or is unsightly, or emits foul or obnoxious odors that constitute either a public or private nuisance.
(Code 1966, § 19B-8; Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Secs. 47-25—47-51. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - RESIDENTIAL WASTE

Sec. 47-52. - Residential collection.
(a)
The city or its authorized agent for refuse collection and removal shall provide minimum weekly curb service collection of refuse at residential units except as otherwise set out herein.
(b)
The city or its authorized agent for refuse collection and removal shall provide collection of refuse for disabled persons.
(c)
Owners of residential units shall place the refuse in the carts and the carts shall be placed, on assigned collection days, at front curbside locations in such manner as not to obstruct passage. Owners shall place the carts at the appropriate curbside location at or before 7:00 a.m. or prior to the arrival of the collection vehicles. This placement shall not be made before dusk on the day prior to collection day. Any refuse placed on the curb after departure of the pickup crew of the city or its authorized agent shall subject the owner to prosecution for violation of this chapter should the street become littered from refuse.
(d)
Owners shall remove the carts from the curbside location to a storage location, which storage location shall be nearer to the residential unit located on the premises than to any street abutting the premises; removal of the cart should be accomplished within a reasonable time following collection on the day the contents are emptied and collected.
(e)
Owners shall prevent the continued, excessive and unsightly accumulation of refuse upon their property or the public thoroughfares bounding upon the owner's property.
(f)
It shall be a violation of this division to place or cause to be placed for collection any acid, explosive material, inflammable liquids or dangerous or corrosive material of any kind.
(g)
Bulky waste may be collected at the curb after notice is given to the city or its authorized agent. An additional tax may be assessed for collection of bulky waste and the amount of such tax will be determined prior to the collection based upon the number and weight of the items of bulky waste to be collected. Owners shall be responsible for the removal of any CFCs and freon from any items of bulky waste prior to its collection.
(h)
Refuse generated from the conduct of customary home occupations carried on from residential units will be collected on a residential fee basis.
(i)
All refuse will be collected by the city or its authorized agent if placed in the cart. No open containers shall be permitted.
(j)
Yard waste shall be collected by the city or its authorized agent once every month. Grass and clippings shall be placed in securely tied plastic bags not exceeding 32-gallon capacity and placed at curbside for collection. Limbs not exceeding four inches in diameter nor more than three feet in length must be placed at curbside for collection. Collection of limbs in excess of the size required herein may be collected on a special fee basis as requested.
(k)
Owners of a residential unit shall be responsible for the proper disposition of any dead animals.
(l)
During any week in which there is an observed holiday or extremely harsh weather conditions, such as snow or ice, the city or its authorized agent may collect refuse in accordance with an altered collection schedule as needed.
(m)
Nothing in this chapter shall prevent owners from contracting with the city or its authorized agent for additional services at additional costs.
(n)
The city at all times reserves the right to direct and control all relevant aspects of the time, place and manner of residential refuse service. Nothing in this division is intended to abridge the city's right to ownership and control of the waste stream.
(Code 1966, § 19B-3; Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-53. - Other residential disposal methods.
Owners of record of all residential units shall obtain service for each such unit from the city or its authorized agent unless any such owner disposes of refuse by self-hauling of refuse to a state-approved landfill. Failure to provide evidence of proper disposal of refuse upon request by city officials (receipts, canceled checks, etc.) shall be a violation of this division. Refuse may not be disposed of by any person in an open dump nor may any person cause, suffer, allow or permit open dumping on his property.
(Code 1966, § 19B-4; Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-54. - Disabled.
Any person who is a full-time resident of a residential unit and who is disabled to the extent that he is incapable of moving his refuse shall obtain a physician's certificate which states with particularity the nature and extent of such disability. Disabled persons shall not be required to place the refuse at curbside. This section shall not apply unless all of the adult persons in a residential unit are disabled and obtain such physician's certificate. Certificates will be mailed to the city administrator. This section also applies to temporary disability not to exceed 90 days. The city or its authorized agent may make reasonable rules for non-curbside collection for disabled persons. The city or its authorized agent shall provide recycling services to disabled persons to the same extent such services may be provided under section 47-108.
(Code 1966, § 19B-5; Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Secs. 47-55—47-81. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - COMMERCIAL WASTE

Sec. 47-82. - Commercial collection.
(a)
The owner of any commercial establishment shall be responsible for the collection and transportation of all refuse accumulated at such establishment to a refuse handling facility operating in compliance with state regulations and must arrange for service with the city or its authorized agent. No business license or renewal thereof shall be issued until the owner or occupant of such premises has arranged with the city or its authorized agent to provide refuse collection for that commercial establishment.
(b)
The frequency of refuse collection from any commercial establishment shall be determined in accordance with its need and convenience as determined by the city administrator. If necessary to protect public health, the city administrator shall have the authority to require more frequent collections than originally determined.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided for herein, no other person shall collect or convey over any of the streets or alleys of the city or dispose of any refuse accumulated in the city other than the city or its authorized agent. To the extent there exists, as of the date of the enactment of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, a validly enforceable contract for refuse collection by and between any commercial establishment within the city and a third party company, not the authorized agent of the city, such contract will, upon application made by the commercial establishment who is a party to the contract, be allowed to expire, excluding any provisions for renewal, before the city shall require the commercial establishment to exclusively use the city or its authorized agent for refuse collection services.
(d)
All commercial establishments or other entities producing hazardous waste or special waste shall be responsible for and provide for the disposal of the hazardous waste or special waste in accordance with all federal and state laws and regulations.
(e)
The owner of any commercial establishment serviced by dumpsters which property is adjacent to a residential area shall cause to be built, around the area in which the dumpster is located, a screened fence of durable quality and construction at least six feet in height which conceals and blocks the container from the view of any public property. The owner of any commercial establishment shall provide to the city or its authorized agent unimpeded access to each dumpster by the collection vehicles on collection days at collection times. No parking or other obstructions shall be permitted in the access area for dumpsters.
(f)
Concrete pads of appropriate size and construction shall be provided for dumpsters or groups of dumpsters. Adequate drainage shall be provided in and around the pad areas.
(g)
As a condition to the issuance of a permit for the construction of a commercial establishment, arrangements for the storage of refuse and location of dumpsters must be approved by the city administrator or his designee.
(h)
Owners of commercial establishments shall be responsible for maintaining the area surrounding dumpsters clean and free of accumulation of refuse.
(i)
The city reserves the right at all times to direct and control all relevant aspects of the time, place and manner of commercial refuse service. Nothing in this division is intended to abridge the city's right to ownership and control of the waste stream.
(Code 1966, § 19B-6; Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Secs. 47-83—47-104. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - RECYCLING

Sec. 47-105. - Mandatory program.
Owners of all residential units, condominiums, multifamily residential units and commercial establishments shall participate in the city's recycling program.
(Code 1966, § 19B-7(a); Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-106. - Collection.
The city or its authorized agent shall collect at least once every week, pursuant to a city-provided list of guidelines, certain recyclable materials which may include glass, newspaper, magazines, plastic (PET and HDPE), aluminum and bi-metal cans.
(Code 1966, § 19B-7(b); Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-107. - Materials.
The city council reserves the right to change the type and number of recyclable materials, and to redetermine collection and disposal of recyclable materials as viable alternatives are developed.
(Code 1966, § 19B-7(c); Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-108. - Bins.
The city or its authorized agent may provide one bin to each unit of a residential unit in which the residents shall deposit their recyclable materials. The cost of the bin shall be incorporated into the monthly charge for refuse collection services. The city or its authorized agent may provide carts to condominiums or multifamily residential units to be placed in a common location where all residents of the condominium or multifamily residential unit shall deposit their recyclable materials. The city or its authorized agent may provide other appropriate recycling containers to customers as the need arises.
(Code 1966, § 19B-7(d); Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-109. - City property.
Upon recyclable materials, which are placed in designated recycling containers for regular curbside collection, being collected by the city or its authorized agent, such recyclable materials shall become the property of the city or its authorized agent collecting refuse for that address.
(Code 1966, § 19B-7(e); Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-110. - Placement for collection.
Owners of residential units shall place the recyclable materials in the bin and the bin shall be placed, on assigned collection days, at front curbside locations in such a manner as not to obstruct passage. Owners shall place the bins at appropriate curbside location at or before 7:00 a.m. or prior to the arrival of the collection vehicles. This placement shall not be made before dusk on the day prior to collection day. Any recyclable materials placed on the curb after departure of the collection crew of the city or its authorized agent shall subject the owner to prosecution for violation of this article should the street become littered from such recyclable materials.
(Code 1966, § 19B-7(f); Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-111. - Removal following collection.
Owners of residential units shall remove bins from the curbside location to the storage location, which storage location shall be nearer to the residential unit located on the premises than to any street abutting the premises; removal of the bin should be accomplished within a reasonable time following collection on the day the contents are emptied and collected.
(Code 1966, § 19B-7(g); Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-112. - Unauthorized collection.
During the 24-hour period commencing at 6:00 p.m. on any day preceding a day designated by the city or its authorized agent for collection of recyclable materials, no person other than an authorized employee or agent of the city shall remove recyclable materials from the designated recycling container which has been properly placed for collection. Each collection in violation of this section during that period shall constitute a violation of this article and shall be punishable as provided in section 1-15.
(Code 1966, § 19B-7(h); Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-113. - Donation of materials.
Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the right of any individual, organization or other entity to donate any recyclable materials for disposal, if such disposal does not violate any applicable statute, regulation or chapter.
(Code 1966, § 19B-7(i); Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-114. - Commingling refuse prohibited.
It shall be a violation of this article to commingle refuse with recyclable materials.
(Code 1966, § 19B-7(j); Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Secs. 47-115—47-129. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - SCRAP TIRES

Sec. 47-130. - Stacking or storing unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for any person to stack or store new or used automobile, truck or tractor tires in an outdoor area within the city. The storage of all such tires shall be in an enclosed and covered area. Nothing in this section shall prohibit or prevent an orderly outdoor display of tires for sale during normal business hours, provided that such tires are stored in an enclosed and covered area after normal business hours.
(Code 1966, § 13-15; Ord. No. 96-04, § 1, 3-12-1996)
Secs. 47-131—47-158. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - REFUSE REMOVAL TAX

Sec. 47-159. - Refuse removal tax.
(a)
A monthly refuse removal tax is hereby levied and assessed against all of the different classes of persons, and against all of the various classes, kinds and sizes of improved building lots of land and improvements thereon to be served or benefited by the city's removal of refuse therefrom, and against the owner or owners thereof, and against each and all of the occupiers and tenants thereof, and against each water customer of the city, and against each electric customer of the city, and against the head of each family within the city; provided, however, that the maximum monthly refuse removal tax per residential unit, condominium or multifamily residential unit on any improved building lot shall be as specified in section 47-160; provided, further, that a building lot shall consist of any lot of land with a building thereon, and no building lot shall be considered improved unless there is a building thereon.
(b)
For such refuse removal tax, the city shall have a lien against such building lot and the improvements thereon and the owner thereof, which lien shall be prior and superior to any and all other liens except state and county tax liens, and except that it shall be equal to any liens the city may have against such building lot for city taxes. The amount of the lien shall include the refuse removal tax plus all costs in connection therewith.
(c)
In case of a lot with a business, commercial, professional, institutional building or factory thereon, the tax shall be in an amount equal to the value of the refuse removal service required in accordance with the fees established herein.
(d)
If all owners of any residential unit, condominium, multifamily residential unit or commercial establishment or any other premises, for which such refuse removal service charge is made, give written notice to the city administrator or his designee for discontinuance of electrical or water services and no refuse removal service for such premises or dwelling unit is necessary or rendered subsequent to the discontinuance of water or electrical service, then no such charge shall be made for refuse removal service for such premises or dwelling unit during such vacancy. However, in the event refuse removal services are necessary or rendered subsequent to the discontinuance of water or electrical service, the city shall assess a tax for such service in accordance with the appropriate schedule of rates.
(Code 1966, § 19B-9; Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-160. - Fees for collection from residential units.
The amount of tax or charge for removal of refuse from each residence or residential unit shall be as established by the city council from time to time.
(Code 1966, § 19B-10; Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-161. - Fees for collection from commercial establishments.
(a)
The charge for removal of refuse or other solid waste from commercial establishments shall be in the amount established by the city council. The council shall establish separate rates for collection from commercial establishments that have dumpsters and commercial establishments that have garbage carts. The council shall also establish a minimum monthly fee.
(b)
Additional charges may be charged for nonscheduled collections and collection of excessive refuse. These additional charges shall be set forth in a rate schedule approved by the council, as amended from time to time, and a copy of the rate schedule shall be available to the public in the office of the city clerk.
(c)
These refuse removal taxes may be amended by the city council from time to time.
(Code 1966, § 19B-11; Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-162. - Waiver.
The city is hereby authorized to waive the imposition of refuse collection fees throughout the period during which temporary electrical service is in use. Upon connection of permanent electrical services or occupancy, the applicable fee shall be imposed thereafter.
(Code 1966, § 19B-12; Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-163. - Billing.
(a)
The refuse removal tax shall be due and payable by each person liable therefor at the same time that water and electric bills are due and payable.
(b)
Each person liable for such monthly refuse removal tax shall be billed for it by the city at the same time that water and electric bills are rendered each month. The city shall impose and collect a late charge if any portion of the water, electric and refuse removal bill is unpaid by the tenth of each month.
(c)
All bills for refuse removal charges are due and payable upon receipt. Failure of the consumer to pay all amounts owing by the 15th of the month following service shall subject the consumer to discontinuance of service.
(Code 1966, § 19B-13; Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-164. - Duty to pay regardless of service.
No owner of a residential unit, condominium, multifamily residential unit or commercial establishment shall be exempt from or relieved of the duty to pay the city's regular monthly refuse removal tax by reason of his failure or refusal to accept the refuse collection service when such service is available.
(Code 1966, § 19B-14; Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-165. - Failure to pay.
It shall be unlawful for any person liable to the city for any refuse removal tax to fail or refuse to pay the same when due.
(Code 1966, § 19B-15; Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Secs. 47-166—47-183. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 47-184. - Enforcing provisions.
(a)
The provisions of this chapter regarding collection and removal of refuse shall be enforced by the city administrator. All such provisions regarding collection and removal of refuse may also be enforced by the city code enforcement officer if so requested by the city administrator.
(b)
Violations of any provisions of this chapter shall be reported initially to the city administrator whose office is charged with administration and interpretation of all sections herein. Designees of the city administrator's office shall be authorized to issue citations and prosecute violations of this chapter.
(Code 1966, § 19B-17; Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
Sec. 47-185. - Lien for sanitation services charge.
For sanitation services, including garbage pickup and disposal, rendered by or on behalf of the city, including penalties, the city shall have a lien against the property served thereby, including real property; said lien to be enforceable in the same manner and with the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes. This lien shall automatically be created and perfected against the property when the above services are provided to the property and upon the filing of a notice of lien in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county, without further action by the city, and this section shall be notice to all persons of the lien created hereby, and this lien shall not be extinguished by the transfer of the liened property by sale, foreclosure or other method.
(Ord. No. 2005-11, § 3, 5-16-2005)
Sec. 47-186. - Appeals.
Any person aggrieved by a requirement of, or a fee charged by, the city shall have the right to appeal to the mayor and council, which body may, upon a hearing, confirm, modify or revoke such requirement or fee.
(Code 1966, § 19B-18; Ord. No. 92-09, § 1, 9-28-1992)
