Chapter 18 - LAND DEVELOPMENT
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 18-1. - Official map.
In accordance with the city Charter and the laws of the state, the map entitled, "Official Map of the City of Fairmount" and dated February 3, 2003, indicating the existing city limits and all official streets of the city, is hereby adopted.
(Ord. No. 020303-A, 2-3-2003)
Secs. 18-2—18-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 18-21. - Administration, appeals, enforcement, and penalties.
(a)
Administration and interpretation. It shall be the duty of the duly appointed city official to administer and interpret this article. To this end, the city official is authorized to prepare administrative procedures, guidelines, and application forms, and tend to other administrative details not inconsistent with the provisions of this article and implement the provisions of this article. The city official may delegate administrative functions, powers and duties assigned by this article to other staff as may be appropriate, without the need to reflect such delegation by formal action.
(b)
Appeal of an administrative decision or interpretation. Any person who alleges that there has been an error by the city official in administration or interpretation of this article shall have the right to appeal the decision of the official to the city council.
(c)
Building permit required. Unless specifically exempted or otherwise provided by this article, no building, sign, or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to, or structurally altered without a building permit issued by the city. It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any building, structure, land, water, or premises, without and except in conformity with said building permit. It shall be unlawful to erect, move, add to, structurally alter any building or structure, use or occupy or permit the use of any occupancy of any building, structure, land, water, or premises, or initiate any land use activity that is in violation of an approved building permit. Unless specifically exempted or otherwise provided by this article, no land use activity, including land disturbance, shall be initiated without a building permit issued by the city.
(d)
Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the duly appointed city official to enforce this article and to bring to the attention of the city attorney any violations or lack of compliance therewith. The official may delegate enforcement functions, powers, and duties assigned by this article to other staff as may be appropriate, without the need to reflect such delegation by formal action.
(1)
Refusal of permits or permissions. The city is hereby authorized and directed to deny and withhold permits or permissions on any new project or application pursuant to this article or ordinances of the city where the applicant, applicant's business, or agent has failed or refused to comply with this article.
(2)
Stop work order. The city is hereby authorized to issue written stop work orders and cease and desist orders for any activity that fails to comply with the provisions of this article. Such stop work orders or cease and desist orders may be lifted at such time as the city is satisfied that a good faith effort is being made to comply with applicable provisions of this article. Nothing shall prevent the city from reissuing stop work orders and cease and desist orders where warranted.
(3)
Injunction. If any land is used, or a building, structure, or other activity is established or maintained in violation of this article, the city is authorized to and may institute, in addition to other remedies, an injunction or undertake other appropriate action to cause the violation to cease or to be corrected.
(e)
Complaints. Whenever a violation of this article occurs or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint shall state clearly and fully the causes and basis of the complaint and shall be filed with the city clerk. The city shall record properly such complaint, investigate, and take action thereon as may be appropriate to enforce this article.
(f)
Penalties for violation of this article.
(1)
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be punished by a fine or imprisonment, or both. In no case shall the maximum punishment for violation of any of the provisions of this article exceed a fine of $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 30 days, or both.
(2)
Violations of this article in the city may be tried upon citation with or without a prosecuting attorney as well as upon accusations.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-0-4.6, 2-3-2003)
Secs. 18-22—18-45. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SUBDIVISIONS AND LAND DEVELOPMENT

Sec. 18-46. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alley means a strip of land dedicated to public use providing vehicular and pedestrian access to the rear of properties which abut and are served by a public road or street.
Block means an area of land within a subdivision that is entirely surrounded by public streets, public lands, railroad rights-of-way, watercourses, or other well defined and fixed boundaries. (See Figure 2-2-3.1.)
City engineer means a professional engineer registered with the state and appointed by the city council. The city engineer may be an employee of the city or serve as a consultant to the city.
Comprehensive plan means any plan adopted by the mayor and city council of the city, or portion of such plan or plans. This definition shall be construed liberally to include the major thoroughfare plan, master parks and recreation plan, or any other study, document, or written recommendation pertaining to subjects normally within the subject matter of a comprehensive plan, as provided by the Georgia Planning Act of 1989, if formally adopted by the local governing body.
Conservation areas, primary, means any property qualifying as conservation use property under O.C.G.A. § 48-5-7.4; and any steep mountain slopes, floodplains, wetlands, water bodies, upland buffers around wetlands and water bodies, critical wildlife habitat, and sites of historic, cultural, or archaeological significance, located outside of building envelopes and lots established for building purposes.
Conservation areas, secondary, means prime farmland, natural meadows, mature woodlands, farm fields, localized aquifer recharge areas, and lands containing scenic views and sites, located outside of building envelopes and lots established for building purposes.
Conservation easement means a legally enforceable agreement between a property owner and the holder of the easement, in a form acceptable to the city attorney and recorded in the office of the clerk of superior court of the county. A conservation easement restricts the existing and future use of the defined tract or lot to conservation use, agriculture, passive recreation, or other use approved by the mayor and city council and prohibits further subdivision or development. Such agreement also provides for the maintenance of open spaces and any improvements on the tract or lot. Such agreement cannot be altered except with the express written permission of the easement holder and any other co-signers. A conservation easement may also establish other provisions and contain standards that safeguard the tract's or lot's special resources from negative changes.
Conservation subdivision means a subdivision, as defined in this section, where open space is the central organizing element of the subdivision design and that identifies and permanently protects all primary and all or some of the secondary conservation areas within the boundaries of the subdivision.
Contiguous common parcels means parcels adjoining or touching other land at a common point and having a common owner, regardless of whether or not portions of the parcels have separate tax lot numbers, or were purchased in different land lots, or were purchased at different times.
Cul-de-sac means a dead-end street of limited length having a primary function of serving adjoining land, and constructed with a turnaround at its end (see Figure 2-2-3.2).
Cul-de-sac, temporary, means a nonpermanent vehicular turnaround located at the termination of a street or alley.
Deceleration lane means an added roadway lane, of a specified distance and which may include a taper, as approved by the city engineer, that provides a means for vehicles to slow down and leave the main vehicle stream.
Dedication means the deliberate appropriation of land by a land owner for any general and public use or purpose, reserving to himself no other rights than such as are compatible with the full exercise and enjoyment of the public uses to which the property will be devoted.
Dedication plat means a plat that describes property to be dedicated for public right-of-way or land for public use, and prepared by a registered land surveyor.
Development means any manmade change on improved or unimproved real estate, including but not limited to, buildings, structures, utilities, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling, or permanent storage of materials or equipment.
Easement means a grant of one or more of the property rights by the property owner to and/or for use by the public, a corporation, or another person or entity. (See Figure 2-2-3.3.)
Escrow account means a type of subdivision improvement guarantee where the subdivider deposits either cash, a note, a bond, or some other instrument readily convertible to cash for specific face value specified by the city engineer to cover the costs of required improvements.
Final plat means the final drawing of a subdivision and, as applicable, dedication, prepared for filing for record with the clerk of the county superior court, containing all elements and requirements set forth in this division, and prepared by a registered land surveyor.
Habitat for endangered or threatened species means an area verified by the state department of natural resources as:
(1)
Actually containing naturally-occurring individuals of a species that has been listed as endangered or threatened under the Federal Endangered Species Act, as amended; and
(2)
Being likely to support the continued existence of that species by providing for a significant portion of that species' biological requirements, and that meets the definition of natural conditions as defined in this section.
Half street means a portion of the ultimate width of a road or street where the remaining portion of the road or street shall be provided at a future date.
Homeowners association means an organization formed for the maintenance and operation of the common areas of a development, where membership in the association is automatic with the purchase of a dwelling unit or lot within the development, with the ability to legally assess each owner of a dwelling unit or lot and which has authority to place a lien against any dwelling unit or lot within the development.
Land suitability analysis means a method used by land planners, in preparing land use plans at a community-wide scale or land plans at a site development scale, to evaluate the fitness of land for various uses based at least partially on environmental criteria. The end product of land suitability analysis is typically a map or set of maps depicting the appropriateness of land areas for various land uses.
Letter of credit means a type of subdivision improvement guarantee whereby a subdivider secures an instrument from a bank or other institution or from a person with resources sufficient to cover the cost of improvements required by the city. The instrument pledges the creditor to pay the cost of improvements in case of default by the subdivider.
Lot means a tract or parcel of land separated from other portions or parcels by description (such as on a subdivision plat of record or a survey map or plat) or described by metes and bounds, and intended for use, transfer of ownership, or for building development. The term "lot" shall not include any portion of a dedicated right-of-way. Types of lots are illustrated in Figure 2-2-3.4.
Lot, corner, means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
Lot, depth, means the average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
Lot, double frontage, means a lot other than a corner lot that has frontage upon two or more streets that do not intersect at a point abutting the property.
Lot, flag, means a tract or lot of land of uneven dimensions in which the portion fronting on a street is less than the required minimum width required for construction of a building or structure on that lot.
Lot frontage means the width in linear feet of a lot where it abuts the right-of-way of any street.
Lot of record means a lot which is part of a subdivision approved in accordance with land subdivision requirements, a plat of which has been lawfully recorded in the records of the clerk of the county superior court; or a parcel of land, the deed of which was lawfully recorded in the same office prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this division is derived.
Lot, through. See Lot, double frontage.
Lot width means the shortest distance between side lot lines measured at the regulatory/required front building line, or in the absence of a front building line regulation, the distance between side lot lines measured at the front line of the building located or intended to be located on the lot.
Mini-warehouse means a building separated into relatively small lockable individual units, typically with a garage door type opening, that provides storage.
Natural conditions means the flora, fauna, soil and water conditions that would develop on a specific tract of land if all human interference were to be removed. The tract of land must have been undisturbed for a sufficient period of time for natural processes to dominate the tract. This period of time will vary among environments.
Off-site means beyond the boundaries of the site in question.
On-site means within the boundaries of the site in question.
Open space means any combination of primary conservation areas and secondary conservation areas, as defined, that together form a permanent, undivided, undeveloped area. As much as 25 percent of the open space may be devoted to active recreational facilities. Easements for electric transmission lines and other aboveground improvement may be considered open space, at the discretion of the city engineer and city council. Stormwater management features, such as lakes, ponds, and ways, may be considered open space at the discretion of the city engineer, provided that such areas are designed and maintained in a manner that contributes to open space and the aesthetics of the subdivision.
Open space, public, means an area within a development or subdivision designed and intended for the use and enjoyment of all residents or for the use and enjoyment of the public in general.
Original tract means a unit of land which an owner holds under single or unified ownership, or which the owner holds controlling interest in on the effective date of the ordinance from which this division is derived, where all land abutting said tract is separately owned by others not related to or associated by business partnership with the owner.
Pedestrian way means a public right-of-way or private easement across a block or within a block to provide access for pedestrians and which may, in addition to providing pedestrian access, be used for the installation of buried utility lines.
Performance bond means a type of subdivision improvement guarantee in the form of a bond, secured by the subdivider from a bonding company, in an amount specified by the city engineer to cover the costs of required improvements, and payable to the city. The city may call in the performance bond in the event the subdivider defaults by failure to properly and fully install required improvements.
Planned unit development (PUD) means a form of development usually characterized by a unified site design for a number of housing units, clustered buildings, common open space, and a mix of building types and land uses in a slightly more dense setting than allowable on separate zoned lots.
Preliminary plat means a tentative drawing or map of a proposed subdivision prepared by a registered land surveyor. A preliminary plat is the basis for the approval or disapproval of the general layout of a land subdivision.
Professional engineer means an engineer duly registered or otherwise authorized by the state to practice in the field of civil engineering.
Professional surveyor means a land surveyor duly registered or otherwise authorized by the state to practice in the field of land surveying.
Protective covenants means contracts made between private parties as to the manner in which land may be used, with the view toward protecting and preserving the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
Recreation, active, means leisure activities that are facility oriented, such as swimming pools, tennis courts, and ball fields.
Recreation, passive, means leisure activities that are natural resource oriented, such as hiking trails, conservation areas, and nature preserves.
Reservation means a method of holding land for future public use by showing proposed public areas on a subdivision plat.
Reserve strip means a strip of land across the end of, or along the edge of, a street, alley, or lot for the purpose of controlling access which is reserved or held until future street extension or widening.
Right-of-way means:
(1)
A tract of land acquired by reservation, dedication, forced dedication, prescription, or condemnation and intended to be occupied by a road, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water line, sanitary storm sewer, or other similar use.
(2)
Generally, the right of one to pass over the property of another.
Scenic views and sites means those geographic areas containing visually significant or unique natural features, as identified in the comprehensive plan, or by other reasonable means.
Sensitive natural areas means any area, as identified now or hereafter by the state department of natural resources, which contains one or more of the following:
(1)
Habitat, including nesting sites, occupied by rare or endangered species;
(2)
Rare or exemplary natural communities;
(3)
Significant landforms, hydroforms, or geological features; and/or
(4)
Other areas so designated by the state department of natural resources that are sensitive or vulnerable to physical or biological alteration.
Septic tank means an approved watertight tank designed or used to receive sewage from a building sewer and to affect separation and organic decomposition of sewerage solids, and discharging sewage effluent to an absorption field or other management system.
Shade tree means a tree in a public place, street right-of-way, or special easement, planted to provide canopy that will obscure the sun and heat from the ground.
Sidewalk means a hard-surfaced pedestrian access area adjacent to or within the right-of-way of a public road.
Site plan means a neat and approximate drawing, to scale, of a multifamily residential, institutional, office, commercial, or industrial development, showing the general layout of existing and proposed development including among other features the location of buildings, parking areas, and buffers and landscaping. The site plan shall be the basis for the approval or disapproval of the general layout of a development in the case of a multiple-family residential, institutional, office, commercial, or industrial development.
Slope means degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, usually expressed in percent or degree; the ratio of the difference in elevation between two points on the ground, and the horizontal distance between these two points. Slopes shall be measured between two points on the ground separated by 500 feet or more.
Steep slopes means lands with slopes of at least 35 percent, as indicated in the comprehensive plan of the city, or which can be calculated with the aid of a United States Geological Survey 1 to 24,000, 7.5 minute quadrangle topographic map or other available topographic information.
Storage building means a rough structure for shelter, storage, or a workshop. It may be a separate building or a lean-to against another structure, often with one or more openings.
Street means any vehicular way, other than an alley, that is:
(1)
An existing federal, state, county or municipal roadway;
(2)
Constructed as shown upon a plat approved pursuant to law and is open to vehicle travel;
(3)
Constructed and open to vehicle travel as approved by other official action of the mayor and city council; or
(4)
Constructed and open to vehicle travel and shown on a plat duly filed and recorded in the clerk's office, county superior court prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this division is derived. Land between the street lines, whether improved or unimproved, shall be considered part of the street.
Street, collector, means, unless otherwise defined by a transportation plan or comprehensive plan, a collector street is a public street whose function is to collect traffic from neighborhoods and local streets and which connects to another public street of equal of greater classification. A collector also may provide direct access to adjacent properties.
Street, local, means, unless otherwise defined in a transportation plan or comprehensive plan, any public street, except an alley, collector, or arterial, and which has a primary function to provide direct access to adjoining properties and which serves a limited area only, usually a single land subdivision.
Street, major arterial, means, unless otherwise defined by a transportation plan or comprehensive plan, a major arterial street is a street connecting two or more towns or communities, connecting two highways of equal or greater capacity, or serving as the primary access to a large land area. A major arterial may also serve a large traffic generator (e.g., an industrial area) and perform a secondary function of providing local access.
Street, marginal access, means a residential street parallel and adjacent to a major thoroughfare and which provides access to abutting properties with protection from through-traffic.
Street, private, means a road or street that has not been accepted for maintenance by the city and that is not owned and maintained by a state, county, city, or another public entity.
Subdivider means any person, as defined in this section, who undertakes the subdivision of land, and any person having such a proprietary interest in land to be subdivided as will authorize the maintenance of proceedings to subdivide such land under this division, or the authorized agent of such person.
Subdivision means a division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building development, whether immediate or future, including all division of land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets. The term "subdivision" includes resubdivision and, when appropriate to the context, relates either to the process of subdividing or to the actual land or area which is subdivided.
Subdivision, major, means the division of a tract or parcel of land into four or more lots which may or may not involve the construction of a new public or private street; or any subdivision that involves the construction of a new public or private street. Because major subdivisions involve construction of a new public or private street or the upgrade of an existing private accessway to city standards, construction plans and land disturbance permits are required, and major subdivisions are therefore processed in multiple steps including preliminary plat approval (unless specifically exempted), approval of construction plans and issuance of land disturbance permits, and final plat approval.
Subdivision, minor, means a subdivision of four or fewer lots which does not involve the construction of a new public or private street. Because minor subdivisions do not involve the construction of a new public or private street, they are processed administratively by the city engineer as final plat applications that do not require preliminary plat approval. Any improvements to an existing public street abutting the tract proposed for minor subdivision, or the installation of utilities along such existing public road as may be required to comply with this division, shall be done according to plans and permit requirements of this division, but such requirements shall not subject the minor subdivision to the requirements for a major subdivision as specified in this division.
Utility means public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel or gas pipelines, telephone lines, roads, cable telephone line, fiber optic cable, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, stormwater systems and drainage ways, and railroads or other utilities identified by the city. As appropriate to the context, the term "utility" may also include all persons, companies, or governmental agencies supplying the same.
Variance means a grant of relief from the requirements of this division which permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this Code; a minimal relaxation or modification of the strict terms of this division as applied to specific property when, because of particular physical surroundings, shape, or topographical condition of the property, compliance would result in practical difficulty; or a grant of relief from the strict requirements of this division due to a proposed project not being able to meet policies and objectives specifically identified in the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-2-3, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-47. - Purpose.
The purpose of this division is to:
(1)
Promote the orderly, planned, efficient, and economic development of the city and to guide future growth in accordance with the comprehensive plan.
(2)
Ensure that lands subdivided are of such character that they can be used for building purposes without danger to the health or safety of residents, and to secure safety from fire, flood, or other menace.
(3)
Prevent the pollution of air, land, streams, and ponds, as well as encourage the wise use and management of natural resources throughout the city, and preserve the topography and beauty of the community and the value of land.
(4)
Ensure the proper provision of improvements such as drainage, water, sewerage, and capital improvements such as schools, parks, playgrounds, recreational facilities, and transportation facilities.
(5)
Provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and layout of the land.
(6)
Establish procedures for the subdivision and resubdivision of land in order to further the orderly development of land.
(7)
Provide for the proper monumenting of subdivided land and proper legal descriptions.
(8)
Help eliminate the costly maintenance problems that develop when streets and lots are established without proper consideration given to various public purposes.
(9)
Facilitate and inform lot purchasers who generally lack the specialized knowledge needed to evaluate subdivision improvements and design.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-2-2, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-48. - Authority and delegation.
(a)
Authority. These regulations are adopted pursuant to powers vested in cities by the state Constitution, home rule powers, state administrative rules for the adoption and implementation of comprehensive plans, and the protection of vital areas of the state.
(b)
Delegation of powers to city council. The city council or its duly authorized representative is vested with the authority to review, approve, conditionally approve, and disapprove preliminary plats of major subdivisions, and to grant variances from the requirements of this article.
(c)
Delegation of powers to city engineer regarding final plats. The city engineer is vested with the authority to review, approve, conditionally approve or disapprove final plats of minor subdivisions and minor resubdivisions, lot combination plats, lot line adjustments, dedication plats, construction plans and final plats of major subdivisions when preliminary plat approval has been obtained from the city council. The city engineer shall also be authorized to review major subdivisions and major resubdivisions for conformity to the requirements of this article, and to make reports and recommendations to the city council on major subdivisions and major resubdivisions, and to administer, interpret, and enforce the provisions of this article.
(d)
Delegation of powers to city engineer regarding land development improvements. The city engineer is vested with the authority to require and approve land development improvements and to require improvement guarantees for public improvements as specified in this article, with ultimate responsibility under the authority of the mayor and city council.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-2-4, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-49. - Applicability and general provisions.
(a)
Applicability. These regulations shall apply to all real property within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
Land is one tract until subdivided. Until property proposed for subdivision has received final plat approval and been properly recorded, the land involving the subdivision shall be considered as one tract, or as otherwise legally recorded.
(c)
All land subdivisions to comply. No person shall sell, advertise, or offer to sell, by deed, map, plat or other instrument, any parcel of land not subdivided and platted under the requirements of this article. It shall be unlawful for any person to transfer or sell land by reference to, or by exhibition of, or by other use of, a plat of a land for a subdivision that has not been approved and recorded in accordance with the requirements of this article. The description of such land by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer shall not exempt the transaction. No plat of land subdivision shall be entitled to be recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county, and it shall be unlawful to record such a plat of land subdivision, unless and until it is deemed to be a final plat and shall have been approved in accordance with the requirements of this article.
(d)
Preliminary plat and plans required prior to construction. No person shall commence construction of any improvements on any lot, prior to the approval of a preliminary plat if required by this division, nor prior to approval of construction plans and engineering plans for said improvements are approved as required by this division and division 3 of this article.
(e)
Building and other permits. No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a building, structure, or use, nor shall any excavation, grading, or land disturbance applications be approved, on any parcel of land regulated by this division that has not been approved in accordance with the provisions of this division.
(f)
Public streets and lands. No land dedicated as a public street or for other public purpose shall be opened, extended, or accepted as a public street or for other public use unless such improvements are constructed in accordance with the specifications of division 3 of this article and unless such land and/or improvements are formally approved and accepted as public improvements by the mayor and city council in accordance with procedures established in division 3 of this article.
(g)
Appeals. Any person aggrieved by an interpretation or decision of the city engineer or other official responsible for the administration of this article may file an appeal to the city council.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-2-5, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-50. - Exemptions from plat approval.
The following types of land subdivisions, transfers, and sales are specifically exempted from the plat approval requirements of this article; provided, however, that such exemptions shall not apply to the land development requirements and improvement requirements of division 3 of this article:
(1)
The creation and sale of cemetery plots.
(2)
The sale of lots consistent with previously approved and recorded plats or deeds.
(3)
The creation of leaseholds for space within a multiple-occupancy building or the division of property into leaseholds for commercial, industrial, or institutional use.
(4)
The creation of leaseholds for the agricultural use of property where the use does not involve the construction of a building to be used as a residence or for other purposes not directly related to agricultural use of the land or crops or livestock raised thereon.
(5)
Any division of land to heirs through a judicial estate proceeding, or any division of land pursuant to a judicial partition, or any division of land occurring from the foreclosure of a deed of trust; provided, however, that such exemption shall not require the city to issue permits if the resulting lots or parcels fail to meet any applicable regulations of the local jurisdiction concerning lot size, lot width, and other dimensional requirements.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-2-6, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-51. - Lot combinations.
An existing lot line forming the boundary between two conforming platted lots located within the same subdivision or a lot line between lots or parcels that have merged to form one lot may be removed or eliminated through a final plat revision process which conforms to the requirements of this article. In the case no final plat applies to the subject lots or parcels, a boundary survey and plat depicting all lots involved in the lot combination shall be required to be approved by the city council and recorded as a final plat. Such combination plat shall be titled with the same name as that of the original subdivision, if applicable, and shall indicate thereon that the replat is for the purpose of removing the lot lines between specific lots. (See Figure 2-2-7.1.)
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-2-7, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-52. - Boundary line adjustments.
One or more existing lot lines forming boundaries between conforming platted lots located within the same subdivision, or one or more lot lines between abutting lots or parcels may be adjusted through a final plat revision process that requires the approval of the city engineer and recording of a plat meeting the specifications of a final plat. In the case no final plat applies to the subject lots or parcels, a boundary survey and plat of the entire lots involved in the boundary line adjustment shall be required to be approved by the city engineer and recorded. Such plat showing said boundary line adjustment shall be titled with the same name as that of the original subdivision and shall include thereon that the replat is for the purpose of adjusting the lot lines between specific lots. (See Figure 2-2-7.2.)
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-2-8, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-53. - Design requirements for blocks.
(a)
Block length. Intersecting streets shall be provided at such intervals so as to provide adequate cross traffic. Blocks in residential subdivisions should not exceed 1,800 feet nor be less than 600 feet in length, except where topography or other conditions justify a departure from these standards. The city council may require pedestrian ways and/or easements through the block be located near the center in blocks longer than 800 feet.
(b)
Block width. The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to allow two tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for business or industrial use shall be of such width as to be considered most suitable for their respective use, including adequate space for off-street parking and deliveries. (See Figure 2-2-9.2.1.)
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-2-9, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-54. - Design requirements for lots.
(a)
Natural features and assets. In the subdividing of land, due regard shall be shown for all natural features, such as tree growth, watercourses, historic sites or similar conditions which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and ensure safety from hazards to the proposed development.
(b)
Access and minimum lot frontage. Each lot shall have access to a public street with a minimum of 50 feet of lot frontage on a public street; provided further, that in the case of a lot accessed by a circular cul-de-sac, the minimum lot frontage may be reduced to 30 feet.
(c)
Adequate buildable area required. Land subject to flooding, improper drainage or erosion, or that is otherwise unsuitable for residential or other use for topographical or other reasons, shall not be platted for residential use nor for any other use that will continue or increase the danger to health, safety, or of property destruction, unless the hazards can be and are corrected. Each lot shall contain an adequate building site not subject to flooding and outside the limits of any existing easements or building setback lines required by the local governing body. (See Figure 2-2-10.3.1.)
(d)
Lot remnants not permitted. All remnants of lots below any required minimum lot size that may be required, left over after subdividing of a larger tract, must be added to adjacent lots, rather than allowed to remain as unusable parcels. The city engineer may permit a lot remnant for a specific purpose such as a recreational area or a detention pond; provided that access and design is appropriate and the lot remnant is restricted to specific nonbuilding use.
(e)
Service areas. Commercial and industrial lots shall be adequate to provide service areas and off-street parking suitable to the use intended.
(f)
Lot area. The minimum lot area shall not be less than that established by the land use intensity district in which the subdivision is located, if applicable.
(g)
Lot width. No portion of a lot shall be narrower than 60 feet, with the exception of cul-de-sac lots, nor shall any lot have a lot width less than that established by the land use intensity district in which the subdivision is located, if applicable.
(h)
Lot depth. Lots shall have a depth of not less than 100 feet, unless circumstances make these limitations impracticable.
(i)
Flag lots. No lot shall be approved which constitutes a flag lot except with special approval from the city council due to extreme topographic circumstances.
(j)
Side lot lines. Insofar as practical, side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
(k)
Corner lots. Corner lots shall have adequate width to meet the front building setback requirements, if applicable, from all rights-of-way.
(l)
Double frontage lots. Double frontage or through lots should be avoided except where essential to provide separation of residential development from arterials or overcome specific disadvantages of topography or orientation. Double frontage lots with frontage on a major arterial street shall have at least 50 feet of additional depth in order to allow space for screen planting along the lot line abutting a major arterial street.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-2-10, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-55. - Easements.
Where a watercourse, drainageway (existing or proposed), channel or stream traverses a subdivision, a stormwater or drainage easement of adequate width shall be provided. Easements shall be provided for all drainage facilities as approved by the city engineer. Where easements are needed for utility locations, the subdivider shall provide them to the appropriate utility provider. Where easements are needed for public water and/or sanitary sewer lines, they shall be provided as determined appropriate by the city engineer. All easements required pursuant to this section shall be shown on the preliminary plat and final plat.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-2-11, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-56. - Survey monuments for all lots required.
For all subdivisions, a state registered land surveyor shall install permanent survey monuments at all property corners and land lot lines, prior to final plat approval. Lot corners shall be marked with metal rods not less than one-half inch in diameter and 18 inches in length and driven so as to be stabilized in the ground. Permanent survey monuments shall also be installed in accordance with the most recent edition of section 180-7-.05 (Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. R 180-7-.05), Monument, of the Rules of State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors and the Georgia Plat Act (O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67).
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-2-12, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-57. - Preliminary plat.
(a)
Purpose. The purpose of this section is to ensure compliance with the basic design concepts and improvement requirements of subdivisions and land developments through the submittal of a tentative map of all major subdivisions for review and approval by the city council.
(b)
When required. All major subdivisions, and any subdivision involving the dedication of a public street, shall require the submission of a preliminary plat to the city engineer for review and approval by the city council. Prior to the issuance of any permit for land disturbance, or the installation of any improvements, the city council must approve the preliminary plat, if required.
(c)
Preliminary plat application and specifications. Preliminary plat applications shall be made in accordance with the requirements shown in section 18-59(b), and preliminary plats shall meet the minimum plat specifications shown in section 18-59(e).
(d)
Procedures. Upon receipt and review of a completed preliminary plat application, the city engineer shall schedule the application for the next public meeting before the city engineer and forward all pertinent materials in the application to the city council for review. An application for preliminary plat approval must be submitted as least 14 days before the regular meeting date of the city council to be considered on that agenda. The city council shall have 30 days from the date the public meeting is held to approve, conditionally approve, or deny the preliminary plat application. The basis of the city council's review of and action on a preliminary plat shall be whether the preliminary plat meets the purposes and requirements of this division, and all ordinances that relate to the proposed development.
(e)
Disposition. Approval of a preliminary plat shall be valid for a period of one year, after which time a complete construction plans application or building permit must be submitted. If a completed application for construction plans is not submitted during that time, preliminary plat approval shall expire and be null and void.
(f)
Appeal. Denial of preliminary plat approval may be appealed to the mayor and city council.
(g)
Amendments to approved preliminary plats. The city engineer is authorized to approve minor amendments to approved preliminary plats. Any proposed amendment to a sketch plat that is determined by the city engineer to constitute a public interest shall be deemed a major amendment. For all amendments to preliminary plats determined to be major amendments, city council approval shall be required. The city council shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny any proposed major amendment to a preliminary plat. Procedures for considering a major amendment to a preliminary plat shall be the same as required for an initial application for preliminary plat approval.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-2-13, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-58. - Construction plans.
(a)
Application. Upon approval of a preliminary plat, the subdivider or land developer may apply for construction plan approval. In the case of a minor subdivision, or in cases where a preliminary plat is not required by this article, the subdivider or land developer may apply for approval of construction plans; provided, however, that in the case of a minor subdivision or land development, the applicant for construction plan approval should hold a preapplication conference with the city engineer to ensure that plans meet the intent and specific provisions of this ordinance and other applicable regulations. The construction plan approval process is administrative. Applications for construction plan approval shall be made in accordance with the requirements shown in section 18-59(b) and (e). No application for construction plans shall be accepted for processing nor approved by the city engineer until a preliminary plat, if required, has been approved by the city council and the proposed construction plans are found by the city engineer to be in substantial conformity with said approval and any conditions of such approval, and applicable state laws and local ordinances.
(b)
City engineer's decision criteria. The only basis upon which the city engineer may deny a construction plan is the failure of the application to meet the requirements of this article or any other applicable local regulations or the failure of the construction plans and application to meet the requirements of preliminary plat approval specified by the city council.
(c)
Certificate of approval. All copies of the construction plans shall be noted by inscription on the plat noting such approval by the city engineer. Construction plan approval shall expire and be null and void after a period of one year, unless activity toward improvements on the land has been initiated, or unless the city engineer approves an extension of time.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-2-14, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-59. - Final plat.
(a)
When required. All major subdivisions, minor subdivisions, and dedications shall require final plat approval. The final plat approval process is administrative. Applications shall be made in accordance with the requirements shown in subsection (b) of this section.
.....
(b)
Application requirements table.
EXPAND
Application Requirements
Major subdivision
Requirement Minor subdivision Preliminary plat Construction plans Final plat
Preapplication review with city engineer recommended
Application form completed required required required
Letter requesting approval with name, address, and telephone number of applicant required
Number of copies of plat 4 8 8 10
Filing fee per resolution/schedule required required required required
Description of type of water supply and sewerage system and utilities to be provided required required required required
Soil test for each lot proposed for on-site septic tank and drainfield required required required required
Data on existing conditions required
Hydrological or other engineering study per city engineer required
Warranty deed for the dedication of streets and other public places required
Written approval from electric utility company regarding installation of service points and street lights required
As-built drawings of public improvements and utilities required
Subdivision improvement guarantee required
Certificate of title required required
Plat certificates required required
(c)
Criteria for approval. The city engineer may grant final plat approval if the following conditions, as applicable, are met. (See subsection (e) of this section.)
(1)
The city council has previously approved a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision, if required (not required for minor subdivision).
(2)
Where new improvements are involved in the subdivision, construction plans have been approved by the city engineer, and all improvements have been installed, certified by the responsible design professional and accepted by the city engineer, and subdivision improvement guarantees as required by this article have been submitted.
(3)
The final plat meets all applicable requirements of this article.
(4)
A complete final plat application has been submitted, including all supporting materials required by this article for final plats.
(d)
Denial of plat. The city engineer shall consider final plats and applications that meet the conditions referenced in subsection (b) of this section a ministerial action of approval. Denial of a final plat shall be permitted only upon specific findings that one or more of the conditions referenced in subsection (b) of this section have not been met. (See subsection (e) of this section.)
.....
(e)
Plat and plan requirements table.
EXPAND
Plat and Plan Requirements
Required information
(required to be on the plat or construction plans) Preliminary plat Construction plans Finalplat
Scale (minimum) one inch=100 feet one inch=100 feet one inch=100 feet
Sheet size (maximum) 24 inches by 36 inches 24 inches by 36 inches recordable
North arrow and graphic engineering scale required required required
Reference to north point (magnetic, true north, or grid north) required
Proposed name of subdivision or project and phases, if any required required required
Vicinity map required required required
Total acreage of the property being subdivided required required required
Name, address, and telephone number of owner of record required required required
Name, address and telephone number of subdivider required required required
Name, address and telephone number of preparer of document required required required
Date of plat drawing and revision date, if any required required required
Exact boundaries of the tract to be subdivided by bearings and distances, tied to one or more benchmarks required required required
Names of owners of record of all abutting land and land uses required required
Municipal, county and land lot lines inside the property or within 500 feet required required required
Existing buildings and structures on or encroaching on the tract to be subdivided required required not shown
Existing streets, utilities and easements on and adjacent to the tract required required required
Environmental conditions (streams, wetlands, watershed protection districts, flood hazard areas, river corridor boundaries, etc.) required required required
Block boundaries lettered and each lot numbered consecutively counterclockwise without repetition required required
Dimensions and acreage of all lots approximate exact as proposed exact as platted
Locations of streets, alleys, lots, open spaces, and any public use reservations and/or common areas required required required
Right-of-way widths and pavement widths for existing and proposed streets required required required
Locations, widths and purposes of easements required required required
Street centerlines showing angles of deflection, angles of intersection, radii, and lengths of tangents and arcs, and degree of curvature and curve data required required
Acreage to be dedicated to the public required required required
Street names recommended required required
Street mailing address for each lot required
Topography required required not shown
Minimum front building setback lines for all lots required required required
Location and description of all monuments required
Certificate of ownership and dedication required
Plat recording and signature block required
Signature block for appropriate reviewing official required
Land surveyor's stamp, certificate, signature, including field survey and closure statement required required
Statement of and reference to private covenants recommended required
Schedule of construction for all proposed projects with particular attention to development planned for the first year required required
(f)
Approval certificate. Upon approval of the final plat, a certificate, stamped directly on the plat, shall state:
"Pursuant to the Planning and Development Ordinances of City of Fairmount Georgia, and all requirements of approval having been fulfilled, this final plat was given preliminary approval by the city council on ____________, 20____________, and final approval by the city engineer and it is entitled to recordation in the clerk's office, Gordon County Superior Court."
(g)
Additional plat certificates. In addition to the information required by subsection (e) of this section to be supplied on a final plat, each final plat shall contain the following certificates:
(1)
Surveyor's certificate. A certificate by a surveyor directly on the final plat as follows:
"It is hereby certified that this plat is true and correct and was prepared from an actual survey of the property by me or persons under my supervision; that all monuments shown hereon actually exist or are marked as "future," and that their location, size, type and material are correctly shown; and that all engineering requirements of the Planning and Development Ordinances of the City of Fairmount, Georgia, have been fully complied with.
By: ____________ ____________
Registered Georgia Land Surveyor No.: ____________"
(2)
Owner's certificate. A certificate by the owner directly on the final plat, signed in an appropriate manner as follows:
"The owner of the land shown on this plat and whose name is subscribed hereto, in person or through a duly authorized agent, certifies that this plat was made from an actual survey, and that all state, city and county taxes or other assessments now due on this land have been paid. Said owner donates and dedicates to the public for use forever the street right-of-way, easements and other public lands as shown on this plat.
____________ ____________
Owner
Signed, sealed and delivered
in the presence of:
____________ ____________
Witness
____________ ____________
Notary Public"
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-2-15, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-60. - Dedications of streets and public lands.
Subdivision streets and rights-of-way and other lands to be dedicated to the public shall be accepted and dedicated by the city only upon the delivery to the mayor and city council of the general warranty deed conveying fee simple title of such rights-of-way and lands. The warranty deed shall be accompanied by an attorney's certificate of title and a tax transfer form addressed to the mayor and city council certifying that the grantor in such deed is vested with marketable fee simple title to the property conveyed thereby, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances, and further that the individual executing such deed has full authority to do so. Acceptance of such dedication shall be accomplished by resolution of the mayor and city council, a certified copy of which shall be attached to both the deed of dedication and the final plat.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-2-16, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-61. - Subdivision improvement guarantees.
In order to protect the city and prospective purchasers of and residents in a subdivision, the subdivider/developer shall provide to the city financial security to guarantee the installation of public improvements. The subdivider's or developer's financial guarantee may be any of the following:
(1)
An escrow of funds with the city;
(2)
An escrow with a bank or savings and loan association upon which the city can draw;
(3)
An irrevocable letter of commitment or credit upon which the city can draw;
(4)
A performance bond for the benefit of the city upon which the city can collect, or a certificate of deposit with assignment letter; and
(5)
Any other form of guarantee approved by the city attorney and accepted by the mayor and city council that will satisfy the objectives of this section. The guarantee shall be in an amount to secure the full costs, as determined by the city, of constructing or installing the improvements and utilities required.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-2-17, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-62. - Limitations on minor subdivisions.
(a)
Intent. It is the intent of the mayor and city council to prohibit the practice of dividing a parcel via consecutive and/or contiguous minor subdivisions instead of filing for a major subdivision where the same land owner subdivides land and then files minor subdivision applications on common contiguous parcels, which collectively total more than four lots. It is also the intent of the mayor and city council to prohibit minor subdivisions adjacent to each other within a three-year time period, in cases where part of an original tract of land is now owned by another person or entity and was transferred or sold to another owner with the apparent intent to circumvent the major subdivision process.
(b)
Common contiguous parcels shown on minor subdivision plats. Contiguous common parcels, as defined by this division, shall be referenced on all applications for minor subdivisions, and contiguous common parcels shall be considered part of any application for a minor subdivision, for purposes of determining whether or not the division of land proposed is a major subdivision or a minor subdivision. Common contiguous parcels shall not be counted as lots in the case of a minor subdivision.
(c)
Limitations. Land within a minor subdivision, including all contiguous parcels owned by the subdivider, shall not be further divided for a period of three years unless a preliminary plat application is filed and approved as a major subdivision pursuant to the requirements of this division. If property proposed to be subdivided was part of an original tract, and if the property proposed to be subdivided abuts land that has been divided as a minor subdivision in the last three years, then minor subdivision of said property shall be prohibited. This provision shall not be construed to prohibit the approval of two contiguous minor subdivisions under separate ownership; however, this provision is intended to be construed liberally so that one property owner does not develop a minor subdivision on part of an original tract and transfer or sell another part of the original tract for the purpose of minor subdivision within a three-year period. It is the intent that land abutting a minor subdivision that was owned by the subdivider of the abutting minor subdivision shall not be subdivided as a minor subdivision for a period of three years, regardless of ownership.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-2-18, 2-3-2003)
Secs. 18-63—18-82. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED FOR SUBDIVISIONS AND LAND DEVELOPMENT

Sec. 18-83. - Definitions.
Definitions pertaining to this division shall be as provided in section 18-46.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-2, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-84. - Purpose.
The purpose of this division is to establish minimum design requirements, standards, and specifications for improvements within subdivisions and other land developments in the city.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-1, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-85. - Authority of city engineer.
The city engineer is hereby authorized to review and approve plans for subdivisions and other land developments to ensure compliance with the requirements of this Code. The city engineer is further authorized to prepare and promulgate standards, standard drawings, and specifications to more specifically implement the intent of the improvement requirements of this Code.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-3, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-86. - Applicability and exemption.
(a)
The improvement requirements specified in this division shall apply to all non-single-family residential developments. The improvement requirements specified in this division shall not apply to individual lots proposed for development as a detached, single-family dwelling or manufactured home, although such lots may be a part of a land subdivision that has initially met the requirements of this division. All improvements required to be constructed as part of a major subdivision, minor subdivision or land development process shall be constructed and improved, in accordance with the standards and specifications for construction as required by this division, and as specified by the city engineer.
(b)
No person to which this division applies shall commence construction of any improvements on any land, prior to the approval of construction plans and engineering plans for such improvements, as required by section 18-87, according to the improvement standards specified in this division and as adopted by the city engineer. No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a building, structure, or use, nor shall any excavation, grading, or land disturbance applications be approved, on any parcel of land that does not meet the improvement requirements specified in this division and as adopted by the city engineer pursuant to this division.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-4, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-87. - Engineered drawings.
Engineering drawings for public streets, including cross sections and centerline profiles, and public and private water, sewer, drainage, and utility systems, certified by a professional engineer registered in the state, or if authorized under state law, a registered land surveyor, or professional landscape architect, shall be required to be submitted for review and approval, and such plans must meet the requirements of this division and the specifications of the city engineer. Prior to approval and recording of a final plat, or prior to the approval of any certificate of occupancy, a registered engineer for the subdivider/developer shall submit one copy of all finished, as-built plans of improvements, demonstrating that such improvements, as installed, meet the requirements of this division and certifying that the plans accurately reflect actual construction and installation. The city engineer shall maintain all as-built street and utility plans for future use by the city.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-5, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-88. - Permits for construction in public right-of-way.
Permits from the city shall be required for construction in any public right-of-way. Permits will not be issued until such time that plans have been submitted and approved by the city engineer. Permit fees shall be approved by resolution of the mayor and city council.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-6, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-89. - Improvements to abutting land.
For subdivisions and land developments that abut and access an abutting public street, the subdivider or land developer shall install curbs and gutters, sidewalks, other road improvements, and, if required, acceleration/deceleration lanes, according to standards and specifications of the city engineer, along abutting public streets. When a subdivision or land development uses an unpaved public right-of-way for access, the subdivider or land developer shall improve that right-of-way to a pavement width consistent with city road design standards. Such improvements shall be from the subdivision or land development entrance to the paved city street which the city engineer determines will be the primary direction of travel for residents of the subdivision or occupants of the land development.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-7, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-90. - Standards for configuring new streets.
(a)
Street alignment, intersections and jogs. Streets shall be aligned to join with planned or existing streets. Under normal conditions, streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at right angles (90 degrees), but in no case shall such a street intersection be less than 75 degrees. Where street offsets or jogs cannot be avoided, offset T-intersections shall be separated by a minimum centerline offset of 150 feet in urban areas and 300 feet in rural areas. (See Figure 2-3-8.1.1.)
(b)
Continuation of existing streets and connections. Existing streets, and their rights-of-way, shall be continued at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the required width. The city may require that a major subdivision provide one or more future connections to adjoining subdivisions or unsubdivided tracts.
(c)
Street plans for future phases of the tract. Where the plat or site plan proposed to be subdivided or developed includes only part of the tract owned or intended for subdivision or development by the subdivider or land developer, a tentative plan of a future street system for the portion not slated for immediate subdivision consideration may be required by the city and shall be prepared and submitted by the subdivider or land developer as part of the preliminary plat.
(d)
Dead-end streets and cul-de-sacs. Streets that dead end shall terminate in a cul-de-sac. The maximum length of such streets shall be 600 feet. Streets that are planned to continue at some future date shall provide a temporary cul-de-sac as required by the city engineer, and a permanent right-of-way extended for the full future street length.
(e)
Marginal access streets. Whenever a major subdivision is proposed abutting the right-of-way of a U.S. or state highway, a marginal access street approximately parallel and adjacent to such right-of-way may be required by the city at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of land between such marginal access street and highway right-of-way. The city may also require a 20-foot no-access easement and planting strip along the major arterial street to ensure that lots fronting on said street do not have access thereto. (See Figure 2-3-8.5.1.)
(f)
Alleys and service access. Alleys may be provided. If they are provided, they must be paved. Dead-end alleys shall be avoided were possible; but if unavoidable, they shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities. Service access shall be provided for all commercial and industrial developments for off-street loading, unloading, and parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-8, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-91. - Requirements for streets.
(a)
Bridges. Bridges on public rights-of-way shall meet current American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials standards, as determined by the city engineer.
(b)
Grading and stabilization of street rights-of-way. When a proposed public street is constructed, all trees, brush, stumps, rocks, or other debris shall be cleared from the street rights-of-way, except in cases where trees are required to be preserved by the city in a manner acceptable to the city engineer. All streets shall be graded to lines, grades and cross sections on approved plans. All unsurfaced disturbed portions of street rights-of-way shall be stabilized by seeding, fertilizing, and mulching or by another equally effective method.
(c)
Radius at street intersections. The right-of-way radius at street intersections shall be a minimum of 15 feet, with larger radii for streets serving nonresidential development, as approved by the city engineer. The minimum pavement (curb) radius at street intersections shall be 25 feet.
(d)
Street grades. No street grade shall be less than two percent. No street grade for an arterial or collector street shall exceed eight percent. No other local street grade shall exceed 12 percent, unless the city engineer finds that due to topographic conditions, a steeper grade is necessary, in which case the street grade shall not exceed 15 percent. Grades between 12 percent and 15 percent shall not exceed a length of 150 feet.
(e)
Minimum street right-of-way, pavement widths, and construction. Street right-of-way and pavement widths shall at a minimum meet the following, and street construction shall conform to construction specifications detailed in chapter 11, sec. 11-32 of the Code of Ordinances of Gordon County, referenced herein as if quoted in its entirety, and as may be amended from time to time:
EXPAND
Street type Minimum
right-of-way
width
(in feet) Minimum
pavement
width
(in feet)
Major arterial street Per thoroughfare plan
Per thoroughfare plan
Collector street 60 24
Local street with curb and gutter 50 24 (back of curb to back of curb)
Local street without curb and gutter 60 24
Cul-de-sac turnaround radius 50 40 (back of curb)
Alley 20 16
(f)
Street horizontal alignment and reverse curves. Street horizontal alignments and reverse curves shall at a minimum meet the following:
EXPAND
Street type Minimum
horizontal
radii of
centerline
curvature
(in feet) Minimum
tangents
between reverse
curves
(in feet)
Major arterial street 1,250 250
Collector street 500 100
Local street with curb and gutter 100 50
Local street without curb and gutter 100 50
Dead-end street 100 50
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-9, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-92. - Curb cuts and access specifications.
(a)
Entrance improvement specifications. Roadway entrances and improvements, including necessary acceleration and/or deceleration lanes and right/left turn lanes, shall be designed, installed, and maintained as approved by the state department of transportation, as applicable, or the city engineer in accordance with state or city specifications. All entrances or exits of any street or driveway, public or private, from or to any state highway shall be approved by the state department of transportation and the city engineer prior to the construction of such entrances or exits and prior to the issuance of any land use permit or building permit for any improvement to be served by such entrances or exits. All entrances or exits of any street or driveway, public or private, from or to any city street shall be approved by the city engineer prior to the construction of such entrances or exits and prior to the issuance of any land use permit or building permit for any improvement to be served by such entrances or exits.
(b)
Curb cut specifications.
(1)
No curb cut or access driveway shall be permitted to be located closer than 100 feet to the nearest existing or proposed right-of-way of an intersecting roadway or closer than 40 feet to a side property line unless the adjacent property owner is in agreement with the encroachment of the driveway and approval is obtained from the city engineer. Curb cuts or access driveways shall be no narrower than 24 feet from back of curb to back of curb. Strict adherence to these requirements may not be practical in all instances as determined by the city engineer. The city engineer may limit the maximum width of a curb cut and/or the number of curb cuts to a parcel as necessary when it is deemed to be of benefit to the safety and welfare of the public.
(2)
The following factors may be considered during the review and approval of a specific location of an entrance:
a.
The location of existing or planned median breaks;
b.
Separation requirements between the entrance and major intersections;
c.
Separation requirements between other entrances;
d.
The need to provide shared access with other sites;
e.
The need to align with previously approved or constructed access points on the opposite side of the street; and
f.
The minimum number of entrances needed to move traffic onto and off the site safely and efficiently.
(c)
Access along and near divided highways. Where a divided highway exists or is planned, the following access standards shall be met (see Figure 2-3-10.3.1):
EXPAND
Minimum access separation requirements Distance
(in feet)
Curb cut of driveway from
street intersection with divided highway 600
Parallel frontage road from
right-of-way of divided high-
way 450
Curb cut or driveway on a
local road from right-of-way
of divided highway 200
Curb cut or driveway on a
local road from state high-
way 200
Curb cut or driveway on
parallel frontage road from
local road 150
(d)
Interparcel connections. New development that contains or is intended to contain more than one building or use on site shall provide connections so that automobile trips between and among such buildings or uses can be accomplished without using the highway or major street. Where possible and practical, new developments and substantial improvements to existing developments shall provide for pedestrian and automobile access connections between adjacent properties under different ownership when the uses of the properties are of such compatibility that patrons may frequent both buildings or uses in the same vehicle trip.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-10, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-93. - Street lighting.
The city council may require that subdivisions and land developments in urban and suburban areas provide street lighting along all public streets and along existing streets abutting the subdivision or land development. Such street lighting if required shall meet specifications of the city engineer.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-11, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-94. - Street signs.
(a)
Signs for street names, directions of travel, traffic control, and hazards shall be provided as directed by the city engineer. Street signs on exterior/boundary streets shall be installed by the city with the developer paying a proportionate share determined by the city. Street signs for interior streets of a subdivision or land development shall be installed at the subdivider or developer's expense by the subdivider or developer meeting all current ASHTO standards as adopted by the state department of transportation, subject to the approval of the city engineer.
(b)
Unless otherwise provided in standards and specifications adopted by the city engineer, street signs shall meet the following specifications. Signs shall be constructed of aluminum sheets with reflective backgrounds. Information on the street name signs shall be readable from both sides of the sign. Signs shall be installed on a steel post. The vertical distance from the road elevation to the bottom of the sign face shall be seven feet with a minimum burial depth of three feet.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-12, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-95. - Curbs and gutters.
(a)
Curbs and gutters shall be installed if required by the city engineer in accordance with standards and specifications of the city engineer. Subdivisions consisting totally of lots intended for single-family residential use containing a minimum of two acres shall not require curbs and gutters; provided, however, that curbs are required for all roads when sidewalks are required by these regulations. All commercial and industrial subdivisions and land developments must have curbs and gutters, regardless of the size of the lots. When property fronting on an existing city street is subdivided or developed, and the subdivision or land development uses such existing street for access, then curb and gutter shall be required along the street along the entire property frontage of the street. Curbs shall be concrete which shall be class A 3,000 psi strength at 28 days. The typical curb minimum section shall be six inches by 24 inches by 12 inches (See Figure 2-3-13.1).
(b)
All streets and roads not required to include curbs and gutters shall be graded, paved, and drained to meet all construction and drainage standards for ditches, slopes, and grassing according to specifications established by the city engineer. Rollover curbs may be substituted for vertical curbs.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-13, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-96. - Sidewalks.
(a)
When required. Sidewalks shall be provided unless the city determines that no public need exists for sidewalks in a certain location. Sidewalks shall be required when land developments and subdivisions are located within one mile of a public school. Sidewalks are required to be installed along one side of the street internal to a major subdivision, except in cases where the average lot size of the major subdivision is two acres or more.
(b)
Location. Sidewalks shall be included within the dedicated nonpavement right-of-way of roads and shall parallel the street pavement as much as possible; provided, however, the city engineer may permit sidewalks to be designed and constructed so that they meander around permanent obstructions or deviate from a linear pattern for design purposes.
(c)
Specifications. Sidewalks shall be a minimum of four feet wide. A median strip of grassed or landscaped areas at least two feet wide shall separate all sidewalks from adjacent curbs in residential areas.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-14, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-97. - Drainage and stormwater management.
(a)
General requirements. An adequate drainage system, separate and independent of any sanitary sewer system and including any necessary ditches, pipes, culverts, intersectional drains, drop inlets, bridges, etc., shall be provided for the proper drainage of all surface water for all subdivisions and land developments. Sizing and location of all drainage structures shall be the responsibility of a registered professional engineer or land surveyor. The city engineer may require the use of on-site control methods such as retention or detention, designed by a professional engineer, to mitigate the stormwater and drainage impacts of the proposed subdivisions and land developments on downstream landowners. The city shall not approve any preliminary plat of subdivision that does not make adequate provision for stormwater and floodwater runoff channels or basins as determined by the city engineer. No building permit shall be issued for any building within a subdivision or for the development of land, if there is not present throughout the subdivision or to the land development an adequate system of drainage and stormwater management.
(b)
Method of design and capacity. Storm sewers, within a subdivision, shall be designed by the rational method, or other methods as approved by the city engineer, and a copy of design computations shall be submitted along with required plans. Drainage improvements shall accommodate potential runoff from the entire upstream drainage area within the site and shall be designed to prevent increases in downstream flooding. Capacity for a ten-year storm or rain shall be provided for all street drainage structures such as catchbasins, inlets cross drains, etc. Capacity for a 100-year frequency storm event shall be provided for all main drainage structures such as retention basins, principal storm sewers, and all types of flood protection works.
(c)
Location. Drainage facilities shall be located in the road right-of-way where feasible, and shall be constructed in accordance with standards and specifications of the city engineer. Catchbasins shall be located at low points of streets. Where topography or other conditions are such as to make impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within road rights-of-way, perpetual, unobstructed easements at least 15 feet in width for drainage facilities shall be provided across property outside the road right-of-way and with satisfactory access to the road. Drainage easements shall be platted as part of the final plat.
(d)
Discharge. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot or land development site to adjacent lots, land development sites, or vacant properties. It shall be directed toward natural drainages. If water must be discharged to a stream, the water quality flowing into the stream must meet or exceed the water quality in the receiving waters. The water quantity flowing into the stream must be evaluated to ensure the stream channel can accommodate the increased flows and not disrupt or degrade the ecology of the water body.
(e)
Grading and site drainage. Lots or land development sites shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from all buildings, and drainage for individual lots or land development sites shall be coordinated with the general storm drainage pattern for the area. Buildings and parking lots shall be appropriately drained so as to prevent damage to abutting properties or public streets. All disturbed or graded ground areas of a building site not used for buildings or open storage areas shall be appropriately stabilized and grassed or covered with plants or landscaping materials.
(f)
Cross drainpipes. Where a watercourse separates the buildable area of a lot from the street by which it has access, provisions shall be made for installation of a culvert or other structure, the design of which shall be approved by the city engineer. Cross drains shall be provided to accommodate all natural waterflow, and shall be of sufficient length to permit full-width roadways and the required slopes. Cross drainpipes shall have head walls of an approved type on inlet and outlet ends of the pipe. Pipe installed within the right-of-way shall be reinforced concrete pipe. All storm drainpipes shall be minimum 18 inches in diameter. Storm sewer slopes shall be equal to or greater than one percent.
(g)
Drop inlets. Drop inlets shall be generally three-foot by three-foot boxes with two-foot by three-foot grates unless otherwise specified by the city engineer.
(h)
Easements. Where an irrigation ditch or channel, natural creek, stream or other drainage way crosses a subdivision or land development, the subdivider or developer shall provide an easement sufficient for drainage and maintenance and shown on the final plat. Easements shall be provided for all drainage facilities as approved by the city engineer. When a subdivision or land development is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway, channel, or intermittent stream, a stormwater or drainage easement of at least 20 feet shall be provided.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-15, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-98. - Potable water.
(a)
Generally. All habitable buildings and buildable lots shall be connected to a water system capable of providing water for health and emergency purposes, including adequate fire protection. No building permit shall be issued for any building within a subdivision or for the development of land, if there is not present throughout the subdivision or to the land development an adequate water supply.
(b)
Water main requirements. When a public water main is accessible, the developer shall install adequate water facilities, including fire hydrants, according to specifications of the city engineer. All water mains shall normally be at least six inches in diameter except that pipe of lesser size may be used if properly looped and adequate water pressure is maintained in accordance with standards established by the Southeastern Fire Underwriters Association. Pipe of less than four inches shall not be used except in unusual cases. Water lines shall be installed with at least 36 inches of cover below grade. Water mains within subdivisions and land developments must be provided with connections to each lot in the subdivision and each land development, except as otherwise specifically provided, and each connection shall consist of a separate water meter for each dwelling unit.
(c)
Community water system. If a municipal water supply is not available to the subdivision or land development at the time of constructing improvements for a subdivision or land development, then the subdivider or developer shall provide an adequate alternative water source and an adequate water storage facility. Any community water system, if allowed, shall provide a minimum flow of 400 gallons per day per each lot platted, whether or not each lot is to be immediately developed; shall be sanitary; and shall have a minimum pressure of 30 pounds per square inch at each lot in the subdivision or each land development to be served. For all common nonpublic water supply systems, acceptable management, maintenance, and distribution policies and procedures shall be established. These policies and procedures shall be required to guarantee the provision of adequate supplies to each perspective lot owner on a continuing, ongoing basis, and to provide acceptable means for repairs and unforeseen events. The community water system plan shall be approved by the county health department and a letter of approval from the state department of natural resources shall accompany the final plat or land development application.
(d)
Fire protection. Fire hydrants shall be required for all land developments and all subdivisions. Fire hydrants with appropriate water pressure at appropriate intervals throughout the subdivision or land development shall be provided by the subdivider or land developer as required by the county fire department. Fire hydrants shall be located no more than 1,000 feet apart and within 500 feet of any principal dwelling. Hydrants, fittings, valves and fire department connections shall be approved by the fire department. Fire department connections shall be not less than 18 inches or more with slopes to obtain a minimum velocity of two feet per second. Minimum 20-foot-wide permanent easements shall be provided for all sanitary sewer lines.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-16, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-99. - On-site disposal system; septic tank.
(a)
Alternative provision. If sanitary sewer is not available at the time of the development of the subdivision or land development, and if sanitary sewer is not anticipated to be available within a period of three years to serve the subdivision or land development in question, then an on-site disposal system shall be installed by and at the expense of the subdivider, land developer, or lot purchaser, in conformity with the requirements of the state and county health department and according to specifications adopted by the city engineer.
(b)
Septic tanks. Where individual on-site wastewater disposal systems are allowed and proposed, individual lot sizes and shapes must exhibit appropriate regard for the peculiar health, drainage, and maintenance characteristics on the site. Additionally, detailed soil tests may be required in order to verify the ability of the lots to safely contain and dispose of septic system effluent. All septic tanks and on-site wastewater disposal systems are subject to the approval of the state and the county health department.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-17, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-100. - Utilities.
All utility facilities including, but not limited to, gas, electric power, telephone, and cable television, shall be located underground throughout the subdivision or land development. Whenever existing utility facilities are located above ground, except when existing on public roads and rights-of-way, they shall be removed and placed underground. Easements centered on rear lot lines shall be provided for utilities, private and public, and such easements shall be at least ten feet wide. When topographical or other conditions are such as to make impractical the inclusion of utilities along the rear lot lines of a subdivision, lot, or land development site, perpetual unobstructed easements at least ten feet in width shall be provided along side lot lines with satisfactory access.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-18, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-101. - Oversizing of improvements and utilities.
The subdivider or land developer shall construct such oversized improvements and utilities that the city engineer determines are necessary, provided that the subdivider or land developer shall not be obligated for the additional cost of improvements and utilities that are not uniquely required for that development, and provided the subdivider agrees to a proposal by the city engineer to share in the cost arrangements for oversizing improvements and utilities. A formula may be developed by the city to provide for a sharing of the cost of other improvements needed to serve the subdivision or land development when certain of the improvements are necessary to serve future subdivisions or developments in the vicinity.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-19, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-102. - Procedure for administrative inspection and acceptance of public improvements.
Upon completion of public improvement construction, the subdivider or land developer shall notify the city and request an inspection. The city engineer shall inspect all public improvements and shall notify the subdivider or land developer by mail of nonacceptance or preliminary acceptance. If the public improvements are not acceptable, the reason for nonacceptance shall be stated and corrective measures shall be outlined in a letter of notification. Upon notification, the subdivider or land developer shall correct all deficiencies identified in the nonacceptance letter within the time limit established by the city engineer. Once deficiencies are corrected, the subdivider or land developer shall again request inspection in writing. Acceptance of public improvements required by division 2 of this article to be approved by the local governing body shall be forwarded to the governing body following receipt of written approval of the city engineer.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 2-3-20, 2-3-2003)
Secs. 18-103—18-132. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DEVELOPMENT PERFORMANCE STANDARDS

Sec. 18-133. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abutting means having property lines in common, or having property separated by only an alley. Separation by a street right-of-way is not considered abutting.
Buffer means that portion of a given lot along a side or rear property line not covered by buildings, pavement, parking, access and service areas, consisting of natural vegetation that forms a screen between incompatible land uses for the purpose of visibly separating uses through distance and to shield and block noise, light, glare, or visual or other nuisances. The width of a buffer is measured from the common property line and extending the developed portion of the common property line. A buffer consists of trees, shrubs, berming, and other natural vegetation which remains undisturbed but which may be replanted where sparsely vegetated, or which must be replanted where disturbed by approved access and utility crossings.
Building, principal, means a building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which said building is situated.
Building setback line means a line establishing the minimum allowable distance between the main or front wall of a principal building and the street right-of-way line or another building wall and a side or rear property line when measured perpendicularly thereto. Covered porches, whether enclosed or not, shall be considered as a part of the building and shall not project into any required yards. For purposes of this article, a building setback line and minimum required yard would be considered the same with regard to principal buildings and uses.
Compatibility means the characteristics of different land uses or activities that permit them to be located near each other in harmony and without conflict.
Density means a measure of residential land use intensity that is expressed as the number of dwelling units per gross acre of land.
Development coverage ratio means that area of a given lot covered by principal buildings and uses, accessory buildings and uses, and parking lots and driveways, divided by the total area of the lot on which said buildings, uses, parking lots, and driveways are located. Ratios for residential construction shall only include those areas that are under a roof.
Dwelling means a building, other than a mobile home, manufactured home, or house trailer, designed, arranged or used for permanent living and/or sleeping quarters.
Dwelling, single-family, means a building designed or arranged to be occupied by one family or household only.
Dwelling unit means a building, or portion thereof, designed, arranged and used for living quarters for one or more persons living as a single housekeeping unit with cooking facilities (e.g., a dwelling), but not including units in hotels or other structures designed for transient residence.
Family means an individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage, or guardianship, limited to the occupant, his spouse, and their parents and children; or a group of not more than five persons, excluding servants, who need not be related by blood, marriage, or guardianship, living together in a dwelling unit as a family or household.
Fence means an enclosure or barrier, composed of wood, masonry, stone, wire, iron, or other materials or combination of materials used as a boundary, means of protection, privacy screening, or confinement, including brick or concrete walls but not including hedges, shrubs, trees, or other natural growth.
Fence, solid, means a fence, including entrance and exit gates, where access openings appear but through which no visual images can be seen.
Grade means the average elevation of the ground on all sides of a building.
Height of building means the vertical distance measured from the grade to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof; to the deck lines of a mansard roof; or to the mean height level between the eaves and ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof.
Impervious surface means a manmade structure or surface which prevents the infiltration of stormwater into the ground below the structure or surface, including buildings, roads, driveways, parking lots, decks, sidewalks, walkways, swimming pools, patios and any other area covered with concrete or pavement.
Lot means a parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a use, building or group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the customary accessories and open spaces belonging to the same, where the boundaries are delineated by deed or plat lawfully filed in the office of the clerk of superior court.
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, when erected on site is 320 or more square feet in floor area, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein, or a structure that otherwise comes within the definition of a manufactured home under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, as amended (42 USC 5401 through 5445).
Open space ratio means the proportion of a given lot, excluding land occupied by principal buildings and uses, accessory structures and uses, and parking or other impervious surfaces, which remains in an undeveloped state and is specifically designated as open space. For the purpose of this article, required buffers shall be considered open space and any parts of required yards that remain in an undeveloped state (i.e., not covered by buildings, structures, and parking or other impervious surfaces) are also considered to be open space. Water bodies such as lakes, ponds, and streams shall also be considered open space.
Yard means a space on the same lot with a principal building, open, unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
Yard, front, means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot, and situated between the street right-of-way and the front line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot (i.e., front setback).
Yard, rear, means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot (i.e., rear setback).
Yard, side, means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the principal building, situated between the building and the side line of the lot and extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard (i.e., side setback).
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-2-3, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-134. - Purpose.
The intent of this article is to establish performance standards for development that will ensure the compatibility of development with surrounding land uses, especially single-family dwellings.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-2-2, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-135. - Building height.
(a)
Generally. No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or altered so as to exceed the height limits established by subsection (b) of this section for different types of buildings and structures. The height limitations of subsection (b) of this section shall not apply to church spires, belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human occupancy, flagpoles, or public utility facilities.
(b)
Maximum height limitations. The following maximum heights are established for types of land uses:
EXPAND
Land use Maximum
height
(in feet)
Single-family dwellings, detached, including manufactured homes 35
Offices and institutions 40
Business and commercial uses 50
Industrial and manufacturing uses 100
Transmission towers 100
(c)
Variances to maximum height limitations. The governing body may authorize a building or structure to exceed the maximum height limitations for good cause shown, upon application by the owner of the property involved, after a public hearing.
(d)
Height performance standard.
(1)
This subsection provides for additional setback protection from visual impacts of taller buildings. The heights of buildings on properties abutting a single-family dwelling, including a manufactured home, shall be limited according to the provisions of this section. When a nonresidential building or structure is proposed to be erected on property that abuts property containing one or more single-family dwellings or manufactured homes, the height of such nonresidential building or structure abutting one or more single-family dwellings or manufactured homes shall meet the requirements of this subsection.
(2)
The height of a nonresidential building or structure on property abutting a single-family dwelling shall not exceed 35 feet; provided, however, that such nonresidential building or structure may be increased in height beyond the 35-foot maximum by one foot for every five feet the nonresidential building is set back from the minimum required side or rear building setback, or ten feet from the side or rear property line if no required side or rear yard is established, up to a maximum required setback of 100 feet (see subsection (b) of this section). The following table provides maximum heights at five-foot increments of building height based on this performance standard:
EXPAND
Height of building abutting a single-family dwelling or manufactured home
(in feet) Additional building setback from required side or rear yard (or measured ten feet from property line if no required side or rear yard is established)
40 25
45 50
50 75
55 100
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-2-5, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-136. - Yards.
(a)
No building shall hereafter be erected in a manner to have narrower or smaller side yards or rear yards than specified for the use in this article. No part of a required side yard or rear yard shall be included as a part of the yard required for another building. The application of buffer requirements, as established by section 18-137(c), supersedes these minimum required yards. (See subsection (b) of this section.)
(b)
Minimum required side and rear yards table.
EXPAND
Minimum Required Side and Rear Yards
Use Minimum required side yard
(in feet) Minimum required rear yard
(in feet) Minimum required yard when abutting property containing a single-family dwelling or manufactured home
Side
(in feet) Rear
(in feet)
Dwelling, single-family detached, including manufactured home 10 20 10 20
Active agricultural operation involving chickens or hogs 25 50 100 150
Guesthouses, detached carports, and other accessory residential uses 5 10 5 10
Church, temple, synagogue, or place of worship 10 20 25 40
School, day care center, other institution 10 20 25 40
Duplex 10 20 15 30
Multiple-family residence 10 20 20 35
Institutional residential living facility (nursing, personal care, etc.) 10 20 20 35
Office, conference center, special event facility, etc. 10 20 25 40
Retail commercial or commercial recreation facility enclosed; restaurant; service None 10 except abutting alleys 35 50
Retail commercial or commercial recreation facility, unenclosed; contractor's establishment; open air business use None None 35 50
Industrial or manufacturing establishment, factory or plant; warehouse or wholesale establishment 35 50 50 60
Explosives storage; petroleum bulk storage sites; solid waste facilities (landfills, incinerators, etc.); extraction industries 50 50 100 150
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-2-6, 2-3-2003)
.....
Sec. 18-137. - Landscape strips and buffers.
(a)
Required landscape strips. No lot shall hereafter be developed with less than the minimum required landscape strip for the specific use, as shown in subsection (d) of this section, when abutting a public or private street. As used here, landscape strip shall be used synonymously with front setback.
(b)
Waiver of landscape strip requirements. The front landscape strips required by this section may be waived for lots which abut one or more developed properties on the same side of the street and which contain a structure that is setback less than 30 feet from the right-of-way.
(c)
Required buffers. No lot shall hereafter be developed with less than the minimum required buffer along a side or rear property line when abutting property containing a single-family dwelling or manufactured home, for the specific use as shown in subsection (d) of this section.
.....
(d)
Required landscape strips and buffers.
EXPAND
Required Landscape Strips and Buffers
Use Minimum required front landscape strip
(in feet) Minimum required buffer when abutting property containing a single-family dwelling or manufactured home
Side
(in feet) Rear
(in feet)
Dwelling, single-family detached, including manufactured home 30 None None
Active agricultural operation involving chickens or hogs 30 75 100
Guesthouses, detached carports, and other accessory residential uses 30 None None
Church, temple, synagogue, or place of worship 30 15 30
School, day care center, other institution 30 15 30
Duplex 30 None None
Multiple-family residence 30 10 25
Institutional residential living facility (nursing, personal care, etc.) 30 10 25
Office, conference center, special event facility, etc. 30 15 30
Retail commercial or commercial recreation facility, enclosed; restaurant; service 30 25 40
Retail commercial or commercial recreation facility, unenclosed; contractor's establishment; open air business use 30 25 40
Industrial or manufacturing establishment, factory or plant; warehouse or wholesale establishment 30 40 50
Explosives storage; petroleum bulk storage sites; solid waste facilities (landfills, incinerators, etc.); extraction industries 30 75 100
(e)
Buffer specifications. Any buffer required by subsection (c) of this section shall be natural vegetation, undisturbed except for approved access and utility crossings, and replanted where sparsely vegetated, with evergreen trees and/or shrubs to form an opaque screen. The length of any required buffers shall not extend closer than 15 feet to any public right-of-way in order to preserve vision clearance.
(f)
Reduction of buffer. A required buffer may be reduced by as much as 30 percent through the site plan review process if screening is provided by installing a minimum six-foot-high solid wooden fence or masonry wall within the required buffer.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-2-7, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-138. - Land use intensity ratios.
(a)
No lot shall hereafter be developed to exceed the maximum development ratio specified in subsection (b) of this section for the given type of development to which the land is used. No lot shall be developed with less than the minimum open space ratio specified in subsection (b) of this section for the given type of development to which the land is used.
.....
(b)
Land use intensity ratios table.
EXPAND
Land Use Intensity Ratios
Use When not abutting property containing a single-family dwelling or manufactured home When abutting property containing a single-family dwelling or manufactured home
Minimum open space ratio Maximum development coverage ratio Minimum open space ratio Maximum development coverage ratio
Dwelling, single-family detached, including manufactured home None 0.20 None 0.20
Active agricultural operation involving chickens or hogs None None None None
Church, temple, synagogue, or place of worship 0.30 0.60 0.50 0.40
School, day care center, other institution 0.30 0.60 0.50 0.40
Duplex None 0.35 None 0.25
Multiple-family residence 0.30 0.60 0.50 0.40
Institutional residential living facility (nursing, personal care, etc.) 0.30 0.60 0.50 0.40
Office, conference center, special event facility, etc. 0.30 0.60 0.50 0.40
Retail commercial or commercial recreation facility, enclosed; restaurant; service 0.20 0.70 0.40 0.50
Retail commercial or commercial recreation facility, unenclosed; contractor's establishment; open air business use 0.20 0.70 0.40 0.50
Industrial or manufacturing establishment, factory or plant; warehouse or wholesale establishment 0.15 0.75 0.35 0.55
Explosives storage; petroleum bulk storage sites; solid waste facilities (landfills, incinerators, etc.); extraction industries 0.30 0.60 0.50 0.40
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-2-8, 2-3-2003)
Secs. 18-139—18-159. - Reserved.
.....
ARTICLE IV. - REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC USES

Sec. 18-160. - Accessory structures and uses.
On any lot where a detached, single-family dwelling or manufactured home is the principal use, customary residential accessory buildings and uses shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Accessory uses shall be located in a rear yard or side yard.
(2)
Accessory buildings shall not exceed 24 feet in height.
(3)
Accessory buildings and structures shall be located a minimum of ten feet from any side or rear property line.
(4)
In no case shall an accessory building or structure exceed the square footage of the principal building or structure to which it is accessory.
(5)
Accessory structures must be constructed in conjunction with or after a building permit for the principal building is lawfully approved.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-1, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-161. - Agricultural, farm, and animal structures and uses.
Buildings and structures related to agriculture, farming, or the keeping of animals shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet from any property line. The minimum lot size for the keeping of livestock shall be two acres. One horse may be boarded for noncommercial use on a lot containing one acre or more in area, and an additional one-half acre of area shall be required for each additional horse to be boarded.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-2, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-162. - Amphitheaters.
(a)
The lot area shall be a minimum of ten acres.
(b)
The stage shall be located a minimum of 600 feet from any property containing a residential use.
(c)
Vehicular access shall be derived only from an arterial street.
(d)
A minimum 100-foot buffer shall be provided along any property line containing a residential use.
(e)
A minimum 50-foot buffer shall be provided adjacent to any property line containing a nonresidential use.
(f)
A maximum continuous sound level of 60 dBA and a maximum peak sound level of 75 dBA shall be observed adjacent to residential uses.
(g)
Security fencing shall be provided adjacent to residential uses.
(h)
The hours of operation of the facility shall be limited to 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. when any property line containing a residential use abuts the facility.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-3, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-163. - Automobile sales establishments.
Establishments that sell, rent, or lease automobiles must provide parking specifically identified and devoted to customers. Adequate space must be allocated, specifically identified, and reserved on the site for the unloading of vehicles brought to the site by car carriers. It shall be a violation to park vehicles for sale, rent, or lease in customer parking or unloading areas. Outside loudspeakers shall not be permitted when adjacent to a residential use.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-4, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-164. - Churches, temples, synagogues, and places of worship.
Churches and their customary accessory buildings shall be set back a minimum of 50 feet from any side or rear property line and, within the 50-foot setback required along side and rear property lines, a minimum 25-foot-wide natural buffer shall be provided.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-6, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-165. - Communication towers.
(a)
Towers/accessory structures must be set back a distance equal to the height of the tower from any property containing a residential use.
(b)
The tower and/or associated facilities shall be enclosed by security fencing not less than six feet in height and shall also be equipped with an appropriate anti-climbing device.
(c)
A minimum ten-foot-wide landscape strip shall be required around the facility exterior to any fence or wall unless the land use officer determines that existing plant materials are adequate.
(d)
The tower shall comply with applicable state and local statutes and ordinances, including, but not limited to, building and safety codes.
(e)
Communication towers/antennas shall not be artificially lighted, except to ensure human safety or as required by the Federal Aviation Administration.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-7, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-166. - Day care centers.
Day care centers and nursery schools shall have at least 150 square feet of outdoor play area and at least 35 square feet of indoor space provided for each child or other person served. A fence with a minimum height of four feet shall enclose the outdoor play area.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-8, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-167. - Drive-through facilities.
Drive-through facilities shall not be located within 50 feet of public rights-of-way or within 50 feet from any property containing a residential use. Stacking lanes for drive-through facilities must be designed in a manner so that vehicle queuing does not interfere with access driveways, interparcel connections, or maneuverability in and out of off-street parking spaces. Stacking lanes shall be clearly identified through the use of striping, landscaping, and/or signs, and stacking lanes for fast food establishments shall provide a means for vehicles to escape from the drive-through queuing stream.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-9, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-168. - Dwellings, single-family attached (townhouses).
Fee simple townhouses shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Each platted lot shall have a minimum of 20 feet of frontage on a private road that meets public street standards of the city.
(2)
A zero lot line between units within the same building shall be permitted, subject to applicable fire and building codes.
(3)
No more than six townhouse units shall be included in any one building to avoid a monotonous appearance. Any building containing more than three units with common walls must have the roof of each attached unit distinct from the other through separation or offsets in roof design.
(4)
Each townhouse development or phase thereof shall require subdivision plat approval in accordance with article II, division 2 of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-10, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-169. - Extractive industries.
Any facility engaged in the extraction of earth products, such as sand, soil, gravel, rock, stone, clay, or other mining operations, shall comply with the following:
(1)
Permanent roads, defined as those to be used in excess of one year, within the excavation site shall be surfaced with a dustfree material.
(2)
Roads other than permanent roads shall be treated with dust inhibitors that will reduce the generation from dust from the road surfaces as a result of wind or vehicular action.
(3)
The proposed extraction shall not take place within 300 feet of a property containing a dwelling, school, church, hospital, or public building.
(4)
Product piles, spoil piles, and other accumulations of byproducts shall not be created to a height more than 35 feet above the original contour.
(5)
All blasting operations shall occur between sunrise and sunset.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-11, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-170. - Golf driving ranges.
(a)
The minimum lot area shall be ten acres or one acre per tee, whichever is greater.
(b)
Vehicular access shall be derived only from a major collector or higher road classification.
(c)
Loudspeakers/paging systems are prohibited when residential uses are located adjacent to driving ranges.
(d)
The hours of operation shall be limited to 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. when any property containing a residential use abuts the facility.
(e)
The depth of a driving range along the driving area shall be at least 350 yards measured from the location of the tees, and the width shall be not less than 200 yards at a distance of 350 yards from the tees.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-12, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-171. - Helicopter landing facilities.
Helicopter landing facilities must meet applicable safety standards of the Federal Aviation Administration, state safety standards, and fire suppression and safety standards of the fire marshal. Helicopter landing pads shall be at least 200 feet from any property containing a residential use and at least 50 feet from all other property lines. All takeoff, landing, and parking areas for helicopter landing facilities must be surfaced with a dustproof material.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-13, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-172. - Kennels.
A minimum one-acre lot size is required. Buildings, animal runs, sun areas, and exercise yards shall be located at least 100 feet from all property lines and 200 feet from any property containing a residential use.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-14, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-173. - Landfills.
(a)
Access from paved streets shall be required.
(b)
Access shall not be allowed through any residential subdivision or residential development.
(c)
A minimum 100-foot-wide buffer is required adjacent to any property line containing a residential use.
(d)
A minimum 50-foot-wide buffer is required adjacent to public rights-of-way.
(e)
A minimum six-foot-high solid fence/wall shall be required inside buffers adjacent to any property line containing a residential use.
(f)
The owner shall provide the city with a current copy of a state solid waste handling permit prior to applying for a land disturbance permit.
(g)
Vehicles shall be allowed into a landfill site only if waste is covered to prevent blowing of material from the vehicle.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-15, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-174. - Mini-warehouses.
(a)
The minimum lot size for a mini-warehouse development shall be two acres, and the maximum developed area for a mini-warehouse shall be four acres.
(b)
Individual storage units shall not be used for the storage of hazardous materials or toxic substances. The use of individual storage units for living, sales, or hobbies is prohibited.
(c)
No individual mini-warehouse building shall be more than 200 feet long.
(d)
Fencing adjacent to a public right-of-way shall be required in the form of an architecturally finished wall or solid, opaque wooden fence.
(e)
Mini-warehouse developments shall not be accessible to the general public (excluding on-site managers) between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-16, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-175. - Shooting ranges.
The minimum site size for a skeet or trap shooting range shall be 15 acres. The minimum site size for a rifle range shall be 20 acres. Ranges shall have an earth embankment not less than 25 feet in height and not less than ten feet in width at the end of the range to serve as a backstop.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-17, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-176. - Storage of petroleum products and explosives.
No storage of petroleum products or explosives shall be permitted until the necessary permits and approvals from the state fire marshal and/or federal agency, as may be required, are obtained. No such storage area shall be located within 500 feet of property containing a residential use.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-18, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-177. - Racetracks.
(a)
Racetracks for vehicles shall be located a minimum of 2,000 feet from any property containing a residential use. Racetracks for animals shall be located a minimum of 500 feet from any property containing a residential use.
(b)
Vehicular access shall be derived only from an arterial or collector road.
(c)
A minimum 75-foot-wide buffer shall be provided adjacent to any property containing a residential use. A minimum 50-foot-wide buffer shall be provided adjacent to all other nonresidential property lines.
(d)
Security fencing shall be provided when the facility abuts residential uses.
(e)
A maximum constant sound level of 60 dBA and a maximum peak sound level of 75 dBA shall not be exceeded at adjacent residential property lines.
(f)
Hours of operation shall be limited to 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. when the facility abuts residential uses.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-19, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-178. - Service and fuel filling stations.
Service and fuel filling stations, including convenience stores with gasoline pumps, shall have all fuel pumps located at least 25 feet from any public right-of-way or property line. All buildings and appurtenances must be located at least 100 feet from any property containing a residential use. All fuel must be stored underground outside of any public right-of-way. All structures, including storage tanks, shall be placed not less than 30 feet from any property line.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-20, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-179. - Uses generating truck traffic.
Any use which generates more than ten truck trips during a peak travel hour or 100 average daily truck trips shall provide deceleration lanes for the use of trucks leaving the road, as approved by the city.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-5-21, 2-3-2003)
Secs. 18-180—18-196. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - PUBLIC NUISANCES

Sec. 18-197. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned vehicle means a vehicle, including cars, trucks, trailers, boats, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, mobile homes, manufactured homes, or any other similar vehicle, that meets one or more of the following conditions:
(1)
Has been left unattended upon a highway, street, or alley or other public property outside a designated parking space for a period of 48 hours; and/or
(2)
Is within public view and is inoperable, partially or wholly dismantled, wrecked, junked, discarded, or of similar condition, or any vehicle without a current license plate if required by law, and is located outside of an enclosed building, garage, carport, wrecked motor vehicle compound, or other place of business designated and lawfully used for the storage of such inoperable vehicles, for a period exceeding 30 days.
Nuisance means anything that causes hurt, inconvenience, or damage to another, and the fact that the act done may otherwise be lawful shall not keep it from being a nuisance. The inconvenience complained of shall not be fanciful, or such as would affect only one of fastidious taste, but it shall be such as would affect an ordinary, reasonable person.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-6-2, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-198. - Purpose.
It is important for a community to appear clean, well-kept, and generally clear of public nuisances, eyesores, and unhealthy conditions. The appearance of a community weighs heavily in the decisions of prospective residents and businesses in locating to a particular area. A clean, safe, and well-kept community can stabilize or increase property values, provide a healthy environment, and make citizens proud of the area in which they live. Accordingly, a community needs a set of regulations to keep the area clean, remove unsightly conditions, and prevent unhealthy and unsafe situations from occurring. It is therefore the purpose and intent of this article to encourage a clean, healthy, and satisfying environment, and one free of nuisances, eyesores, and unhealthy, unsafe, or devaluating conditions. To this end, this article seeks to regulate and protect the health, safety, welfare, values, and aesthetics of properties in the city.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-6-1, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-199. - Illustrative examples.
The following conditions, whether on occupied or unoccupied lands or public or private property, are hereby declared to be and constitute a public nuisance and shall be abated, although this section shall not be construed to be limiting with regard to its enumeration of public nuisances:
(1)
Weeds or grass allowed to grow to a height greater than 12 inches on the average, or any accumulation of dead weeds, grass, or brush, that may provide safe harborage for rats, mice, snakes and/or other vermin.
(2)
Vegetation that obstructs the safe passage or line-of-sight of motorists or pedestrians at an intersection or driveway connection with a public or private street or alley, or along any street or sidewalk.
(3)
Dead or dying trees or other vegetation which may cause a hazardous situation if they fall.
(4)
Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk, construction debris, and other abandoned materials, metals, lumber, or other such items.
(5)
The keeping or maintenance of one or more abandoned vehicles in public view or in a manner inconsistent with this article.
(6)
The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable time after death.
(7)
Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated condition that it is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such an unsanitary condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity thereof, or presents a fire hazard.
(8)
All noises which may annoy or inhibit others in their enjoyment of the use of their property.
(9)
All disagreeable or obnoxious odors or stenches, as well as the conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or generation of such odors and stenches, including smoke and fires.
(10)
The pollution of any public well, stream, lake, canal, or body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes, agricultural wastes, or other substances.
(11)
Any building, structure, or other place or location where any activity is conducted, performed or maintained in violation of local, state, or federal law.
(12)
Any accumulation of stagnant water.
(13)
Any method of human excretion disposal which does not conform to the provisions of local ordinances or state or federal law.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-6-3, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-200. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, maintain, or allow the creation or maintenance of a nuisance, as defined or more specifically described in this article.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-6-4, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-201. - Notice to abate.
Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the jurisdiction of the city, the city police shall give written notice to the owner or occupant of the property upon which such a nuisance exists, or upon the person causing or maintaining the nuisance, to abate the nuisance.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-6-5, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-202. - Contents of notice.
The notice to abate a nuisance issued under the provisions of section 18-201 shall contain the following:
(1)
An order to abate the nuisance or to request a hearing within a stated time, which shall be reasonable under the circumstances;
(2)
The location of the nuisance, if the nuisance is stationary;
(3)
A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
(4)
A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance; and
(5)
A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed, the city will file an action in municipal court to abate the nuisance.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-6-6, 2-3-2003)
Sec. 18-203. - Provisions for specific nuisances.
(a)
Animals. No domestic animals shall be permitted to run at large within the city limits. It shall be unlawful for any domestic animal to be running at large on the streets or sidewalks of the city, unless said domestic pet is under the control of a leash, collar, or chain. It shall be the responsibility of the owner of any domestic animal to provide a proper enclosure or structure secured from the ground to a sufficient height so that the animal cannot escape the enclosure. Structures for horses, cows, or other livestock shall not be located closer than 100 feet to any property line. All animal enclosures or yards shall at all times be kept in a clean condition to prevent any condition detrimental to the public health of the city. No more than one horse, cow, or other type of livestock shall be kept per acre of land. No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited the carcass of any dead animal in the streets, roads, alleys, woods, or waters within the city limits.
(b)
Abandoned vehicles. It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain an abandoned vehicle as defined in section 18-197, and any abandoned vehicle is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated as provided in this article.
(c)
Trees and other vegetation. It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any lot or land lying and abutting an intersection of two streets or the intersection of a driveway and a street to allow any trees, shrubs, or bushes lying on said lot or land to grow to a height or in a manner which restricts the line of sight, or which threatens safety or restricts passage of motorists or pedestrians within a public right-of-way or sidewalk.
(d)
Noise. It shall be unlawful for any person to create or assist in creating, permit, or continue any unreasonably loud, disturbing, or unnecessary noise in the city. Noise of such character, intensity, and duration that is detrimental to the reasonable comfort, health, or life of any individual is prohibited. The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing, and unnecessary noises that constitute a public nuisance in violation of this article, and which shall be abated.
(1)
The keeping or maintenance of any domestic animal which, due to prolonged or habitual barking, howling, whining, or other noises, causes annoyance to neighboring residents, or interferes with the reasonable use and enjoyment of the premises occupied by such residents, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated as provided in section 18-201
(2)
The sounding of any bell, horn, whistle, mechanical device operated by compressed air, or signal device while not in motion, except as a danger signal, for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
(3)
The use of any siren, other than police, fire, or emergency vehicle.
(4)
The use or operation of any musical instrument, radio, loudspeaker, or sound amplifying device so loudly as to disturb persons in the vicinity thereof.
(5)
The erection, excavation, demolition, alteration, or repair of any building or structure in the vicinity of residential dwellings between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., except in the case of urgent necessity in the interest of public safety, and then only with a permit from the city.
(6)
The creation of excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, court, or religious congregation while the same are in session, or within 150 feet of a hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working of such institution.
(7)
The shouting or crying of peddlers, vendors, or residents which disturbs the peace and quiet of a residential area.
(8)
The unnecessary creation of loud or excessive noise in connection with unloading or loading vehicles or merchandise.
(9)
The use of any vehicle that is in a state of disrepair so as to create loud or unnecessary grinding, rattling, backfiring, or other noise.
Any one of these enumerated nuisances, if violated, would be a misdemeanor and could be prosecuted in the local court just as the violation of any ordinances.
(Ord. No. 020303-C, § 3-6-7, 2-3-2003)
