ARTICLE X. - OUTDOOR BURNING

Sec. 65-503. - Penalties.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this article, hereby adopted, or fail to comply therewith, shall for each and every such violation and noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor as defined by the state. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue.
(Ord. No. 2001-04, § 2(10-15), 1-22-2001)
Sec. 65-504. - Permit.
(a)
Required. No person shall kindle or maintain any fire or authorize any such fire to be started or maintained without a permit or other proper authorization.
(b)
Exceptions. The following types of burning shall be exempt from the provisions of subsection (a) of this section:
(1)
Burning of leaves. No permit and no fee is required for reduction of leaves on the premises on which they fall by the person in control of the premises.
(2)
Agricultural fires. No permit and no fee is required for carrying out recognized agricultural procedures necessary for production or harvesting of crops.
(3)
Forest lands. No permit and no fee is required for the burning of any forest land by the owners of such land.
(4)
Recreational/cooking fires. No permit and no fee is required for recreational purposes or cooking food for immediate human consumption (e.g., camp fires and barbecues).
(5)
Firefighter training fires. No permit and no fee is required for fires set for the purpose of training firefighting personnel, which should comply with the following:
a.
Structures should be stripped of asphaltic materials whenever possible (i.e., tile flooring, shingles).
b.
Any asbestos containing materials should be removed in accordance with the environmental protection division's regulations governing asbestos.
c.
Structures should be emptied of any material in storage that may contain heavy oils, natural of synthetic rubber, furniture, appliances of other solid waste.
d.
Weather conditions should be such that smoke and ash will not linger in the area or the same do not blow into residential, shopping, educational or hospital areas.
e.
Residuals from the suppression and containment efforts are not allowed to runoff into bodies of water (i.e., streams, ponds, swimming pools, etc.).
f.
Training should be conducted no earlier than 9:00 a.m. and concluded by 4:00 p.m., (fall and winter) or 6:00 p.m. (spring and summer).
g.
The person in charge of such firefighting training should make a thorough investigation of the proposed situation and prevailing circumstances before commencing any such burning and respond responsibly as needed. The person in charge of such firefighting training should obtain a release and consent to conduct such training from the owner of the property.
(6)
Open flame making equipment. No permit and no fee is required for operation of devices using open flames such as asphalt kettles, blow torches, welding torches, portable heaters and other flame-making equipment.
(7)
Miscellaneous small fires. No permit and no fee is required for setting and maintaining by contractors and tradesmen of miscellaneous small fires necessary for such activities as street paving work, or installation or repair of utilities, provided that such fires are kept small in size. Smoke emissions shall not exceed 40 percent capacity.
(8)
Bonfires. A permit but no fee is required for bonfires. No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained on any private or public land unless the location is not less than 50 feet from any structure and adequate provision is made to prevent the fire from spreading within 50 feet of any structure, or the fire is contained in an approved waste burner located not less than 15 feet from any structure. Bonfires shall be constantly attended by a competent person until such fire is extinguished. Such person shall have a garden hose connected to a water supply, or other fire extinguishing equipment readily available for use. No flammable or combustible liquids shall be used for a bonfire. Only paper, cardboard or kindling shall be used to start bonfires.
(9)
Warming fires. No permit and no fee shall be required for warming fires. Warming fires shall be contained within a metal barrel of 55-gallon capacity or less. Untreated wood or lumber shall be the only material or substance permitted to be burned. The container for the warming fire shall be not less than 25 feet from any structure. No on ground warming fires are permitted. For warming fires, the temperature shall be 50 degrees Fahrenheit or less.
(Ord. No. 2001-04, § 2(10-12), 1-22-2001)
Sec. 65-505. - Application.
(a)
Submission of site plan. The applicant shall complete the burning permit application issued by the city. The applicant shall submit a plat of site plan showing the proposed location of the pit and information relating to the proximity of any occupied or unoccupied structure.
(b)
Fee and inspection. The application, if approved, shall be accompanied by a check for $250.00. Said check shall be made payable to the city. No burning shall commence prior to an inspection of the site and the pit by a representative of the city.
(c)
Validity. Said permit shall be valid for the duration of the open burning, but in any event shall not be valid beyond two months from the date of issue.
(Ord. No. 2001-04, § 2(10-12), 1-22-2001)
Sec. 65-506. - Air curtain destructor.
Pit fires are the only type of fire permitted for the purpose of land clearing. No aboveground fires are allowed in the city. All pit fires shall be operated in strict accordance with the Air Curtain Destructor Operating Guide and Procedures, published by the North Georgia Region Environmental Protection Division. Pit fires shall comply with the following requirements:
(1)
The pit shall be at least 300 feet from any occupied or habitable structure or public road. Air curtain destructors used solely for utility line clearing or road clearing may be located at a lesser distance upon approval of the fire marshal.
(2)
Only wood wastes consisting of trees, logs, brush and stumps may be burned. Sawdust, other densely packed wood wastes, paper (any type), chemically treated, coated or impregnated wood, or non-wood construction materials cannot be burned. The amount of dirt on or in the material being burned shall be minimized.
(3)
No more than one air curtain destructor can be operated within a ten acre area at one time, or there must be at least 1,000 feet between any two air curtain destructors. The air curtain destructor must be under control of a trained operator at all times during operation.
(4)
Air curtain destructors must be able to pass an even, non-turbulent flow of air across the top of the pit. Air curtain destructors with an air duct manifold that has been altered by bends, dents, holes, etc., and are incapable of providing an even and non-turbulent flow of air across the top of the pit shall not be approved for use.
(5)
The air curtain destructor shall be operated in a manner to prevent air, land or water pollution, safety/health hazards, or nuisances.
(6)
Tires or other rubber products, plastics, heavy oils or asphaltic-based or impregnated materials shall not be used to start or maintain the operation of the air curtain destructor.
(7)
No smoke emissions exceeding 40 percent capacity may be produced during operation except for a reasonable period during ignition and charging of the pit.
(8)
When the pit is cleaned of ash, airborne particulate is to be minimized by wetting of mixing the ashes with dirt.
(9)
Diesel fuel or kerosene may be used to start pit fires.
(Ord. No. 2001-04, § 2(10-13), 1-22-2001)
Sec. 65-507. - Burning restrictions.
(a)
The fire marshal may prohibit any or all outdoor fires when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous.
(b)
Under no circumstances will burning be permitted on Saturdays, Sundays, nights, and or holidays. Recognized holidays include Christmas Day, New Year's Day, Thanksgiving Day, Fourth of July; provided, however, that leaves may be burned on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
(c)
No burning is permitted when prevailing winds are in the direction of populated areas.
(d)
No burning is permitted when there is fog, rain, or cloud bases that are diffused, or ill-defined, or for at least one day following the passage of a cold front.
(e)
No burning is permitted during an air pollution episode, such as an air pollution alert/warning/emergency declared by proper authorities. An air pollution episode occurs when the air contaminate concentration in an area is great enough to cause danger to public health.
(Ord. No. 2001-04, § 2(10-14), 1-22-2001)
Sec. 65-508. - Authority to extinguish burning fires.
The fire marshal and the personnel assigned to the city fire department shall have the authority to summarily extinguish any open burning which is in violation of any of the provisions of this article, and/or which constitutes an immediate threat to life and property.
(Ord. No. 2001-04, § 2(10-16), 1-22-2001)
Sec. 65-509. - Appeals.
Any person aggrieved by an order, determination or permit revocation by the fire marshal may, in writing, appeal said order, determination, or permit revocation within three business days to the city administrator. In no event, however, shall a pit fire or other open burning continue after the fire marshal has revoked said permit.
(Ord. No. 2001-04, § 2(10-17), 1-22-2001)
Sec. 65-510. - Liability.
Any officer charged with the enforcement of this article, acting for the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his duties, shall not hereby render himself liable for any damages that may occur to persons or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties pursuant to this article.
(Ord. No. 2001-04, § 2(10-18), 1-22-2001)
Secs. 65-511—65-528. - Reserved.
