ARTICLE VIII. - PAWNBROKERS AND SCRAP METAL PROCESSORS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2012-03, § 1, adopted April 9, 2012, amended former Art. VIII, §§ 14-235—14-245, in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former Art. VIII pertained to the same subject matter and derived from the Code of 1966, §§ 14A-1—14A-11 and Ord. No. 94-08, § 9, adopted Oct. 24, 1994.

Sec. 14-235. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Pawn transaction means any loan on the security of pledged goods or any purchase of pledged goods on the condition that the pledged goods may be redeemed or repurchased by the person making the pledge or seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time.
Pawnbroker means any person engaged in whole or in part in the business of lending money on the security of pledged goods, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property on the condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property from persons or sources other than manufacturers or licensed dealers as a part of or in conjunction with the business activities described in this definition.
Pledged goods means any tangible personal property, including, without limitation, all types of motor vehicles or any motor vehicle certificate of title, which property is purchased by, deposited with, or otherwise actually delivered into the possession of a pawnbroker in connection with a pawn transaction. However, for purposes of this article, possession of any motor vehicle certificate of title which has come into the possession of a pawnbroker through a pawn transaction made in accordance with law shall be conclusively deemed to be possession of the motor vehicle, and the pawnbroker shall retain physical possession of the motor vehicle certificate of title for the entire length of the pawn transaction but shall not be required in any way to retain physical possession of the motor vehicle at any time. The term "pledged goods" shall not include choses in action, securities, or printed evidences of indebtedness.
Scrap metal processor means any person engaged in the business of buying scrap vehicles, automotive parts, or other metallic waste, with the intent to process such material for resale as scrap, by melting, crushing, reforming, or otherwise.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, § 1, 4-9-2012)
Sec. 14-236. - Violations.
Any person violating any section of this article shall be subject to a fine of $500.00 and/or revocation of his permit required hereunder.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, § 1, 4-9-2012)
Sec. 14-237. - Permitrequired,
No person shall conduct business as a pawnbroker or scrap metal processor, or maintain an establishment for the purposes of conducting business as a pawnbroker or scrap metal processor, until a business permit has been obtained from the city clerk and the regulatory fee for such permit is paid. Such permit application shall be made to the city clerk and a permit issued only upon approval by the mayor and council of the city.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, § 1, 4-9-2012)
Sec. 14-238. - Review of application.
No action on any application for the pawnbroker's or scrap metal processor's permit shall be taken until the chief of police has reviewed and investigated such application and forwarded his recommendation thereon to the mayor and council of the city for their consideration, approval or denial.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, § 1, 4-9-2012)
Sec. 14-239. - Limitation on issuance.
No pawnbroker's or scrap metal processor's permit shall be issued to any person, or to any pawnbroker or scrap metal processor who employs anyone who has been convicted of any crime involving as an element thereof the theft of property.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, § 1, 4-9-2012)
Sec. 14-240. - Fee established; hours of operation.
The annual regulatory fee for each pawnbroker or scrap metal processor doing business within the city, or for each individual establishment maintained for the purpose of doing business as a pawnbroker or scrap metal processor within the city, shall be such fee as established from time to time by resolution of the mayor and city council. In addition, each pawnbroker, scrap metal processor or establishment shall be subject to the occupational taxes required by this Code. Each pawnbroker or scrap metal processor may only conduct business in the city between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. or sundown, whichever occurs first, Monday through Saturday.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, § 1, 4-9-2012)
Sec. 14-241. - Records.
(a)
Each pawnbroker or scrap metal processor regulated hereunder shall furnish to the chief of police each week a list of every item pledged with him or sold to him during the previous week. Such list may be a copy of the information required to be kept by O.C.G.A. § 44-12-132, as amended from time to time. Each pawnbroker and scrap metal processor shall secure from every person from whom he receives any used or previously owned tangible property, whether by purchase or through pledge, trade, pawn or exchange the following:
(1)
The date of the transaction;
(2)
The name of the person conducting the transaction;
(3)
The name, age and address of the customer; a description of the general appearance of the customer; and the distinctive number from the customer's state driver's license or any other government identification (military identification, state identification or driver's license). In the event the customer does not have a valid official government identification, the pawnbroker must make and retain a photograph clearly showing the frontal view of said customer's face;
(4)
An identification and description of the pledged or purchased goods, including, If reasonably available, the serial, model or other number, and all identifying marks inscribed thereon. When dealing with material that does not have identifiable markings, a digital photo should be taken and maintained by the business where it can be linked to original record of property that was obtained;
(5)
The number of the receipt or pawn ticket;
(6)
The price paid or the amount loaned;
(7)
The number of the check issued for the purchase price or loan if payment is made by check;
(8)
The maturity date of the transaction; and
(9)
The signature of the customer.
(b)
Entries shall appear in sequential order by electronic/computer generated reports. If computer entry is unavailable, numbered tickets or writing in a ledger in ink is permitted, if using a ledger, no blank lines may be left between entries. No obliterations, alterations or erasures may be made. Corrections shall be made by drawing a line of ink through the entry without destroying its legibility. The book shall be open to the inspection of any duly authorized law enforcement officer during the ordinary hours of business, or at any reasonable time.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, § 1, 4-9-2012)
Sec. 14-242. - Thumbprints.
Any pawnbroker or scrap metal processor who shall receive as a pledge or purchase any item, good or ware valued in excess of $10.00 or any revolver, pistol, shotgun, rifle or any other firearm shall be required to take a thumbprint of such person pledging or selling any of the above items. Such thumbprints must be kept by the pawnbroker or scrap metal processor as part of the records required by the state, and for the period of time required therein.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, § 1, 4-9-2012)
Sec. 14-243. - Minors,
No pawnbroker or scrap metal processor shall have any business dealings as a pawnbroker or scrap metal processor with a minor, nor shall a pawnbroker's or scrap metal processor's permit be issued to a minor, nor shall a pawnbroker or scrap metal processor employ a minor to assist him in his business.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, § 1, 4-9-2012)
Sec. 14-244. - Stolen goods.
It shall be the duty of every pawnbroker or scrap metal processor to report to the police any article pledged with him or which is sought to be pledged with him, if he shall have reason to believe the article was stolen, or lost and found by the person attempting to pledge it in the case of a lost article. No pawnbroker or scrap metal processor shall accept any item, good or ware upon which a manufacturer's identity or serial number has been removed, obliterated, or in any way caused to become unreadable.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, § 1, 4-9-2012)
Sec. 14-245. - Certain purchased articles to be held minimum period.
Any pawnbroker or person operating under a pawnbroker's permit who purchases goods, other than those purchased through wholesalers, taking full title thereto (the term "goods" being used in the broadest sense and including all kinds of personal property) shall hold such goods purchased for at least 15 days before disposing of the same by sale, transfer, shipment or otherwise.
Any scrap metal processor or person operating under a scrap metal processor's permit who purchases goods, other than those purchased through wholesalers, taking full title thereto (the term "goods" being used in the broadest sense and including all kinds of personal property) shall hold such goods purchased for at least ten business days before disposing of the same by sale, transfer, shipment, parting/dismantling, crushing or otherwise. The ten-day hold will pertain to items that have identifiable (serial or v.i.n, numbers) markings.
(Ord. No. 2012-03, § 1, 4-9-2012)
Secs. 14-246—14-270. - Reserved.
