ARTICLE XI. - NOISE

Sec. 65-529. - Excessive sounds.
(a)
Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise which unreasonably or unnecessarily either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others in the city.
(b)
Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to or be enforced against:
(1)
Any vehicle of the city while engaged in necessary public business.
(2)
Excavations or repairs of streets by or on behalf of the city, county or state at night when public welfare and convenience renders it impossible to perform such work during the day.
(3)
The reasonable use of amplifiers or loudspeakers in the course of public addresses which are noncommercial in character.
(Code 1966, § 16-10)
Sec. 65-530. - Unlawful acts or behavior.
The following acts, among others, shall constitute a violation of this article, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
(1)
Horns, signaling devices, etc. The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public place in the city except as a danger warning; the creation of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound by means of any such signaling device and the sounding of any such device for an unreasonable period of time; the use of any signaling device, except a police whistle or one operated by hand or electricity; the use of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine exhaust and the use of any such signaling device when traffic is held up for any reason.
(2)
Radios, television, phonographs, etc. The playing, using or operating, or permitting to be played, used or operated, of any radio receiving set, television set, musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants, or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the person who is in the room, vehicle or chamber in which such machine or device is operated and who is a voluntary listener thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or device between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located, shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(3)
Loudspeakers, amplifiers, etc., for advertising. The playing, using or operating, or permitting to be played, used or operated, of any radio receiving set, musical instruments, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public to any building or structure without a special permit from the city clerk or city council. Announcements over loudspeakers can only be made by the announcer in person and without the aid of any mechanical device.
(4)
Yelling, shouting, etc. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity.
(5)
Animals, birds, etc. The keeping of any animal or bird which will disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity by making long, continual or frequent noise.
(6)
Steam whistle or horn. The blowing of any train whistle, steam whistle or horn attached to any stationary boiler or locomotive except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or danger or upon request of proper city authorities.
(7)
Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat or motor vehicle except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
(8)
Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
(9)
Loading, unloading, opening boxes. The creation of a loud and excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers.
(10)
Construction or repairing of buildings. The erection (including excavating), demolition, alteration or repair of any building other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except on urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety, and then only with a permit from the city building inspector, which permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days or less while the emergency continues and which permit may be renewed by the city council for periods of three days or less while the emergency continues. If the city council determines that the public health and safety will not be impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or the excavation of streets and highways from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., and further determines that loss or inconvenience would result to any party in interest, the city council may grant permission for such work to be done from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., upon application made at the time the permit for the work is applied for or during the progress of the work.
(11)
Schools, courts, churches, hospitals. The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or court while the same are in session or adjacent to any hospital, and which unreasonably interferes with the work of such institution, or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital; provided, that conspicuous signs are displayed about such institutions indicating the presence of such institutions.
(12)
Hawkers, peddlers, etc. The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers and vendors which disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
(13)
Noises to attract attention. The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show or sale by creation of noise.
(14)
Transportation of metal rails, etc. The transportation of rails, pillars or columns of iron, steel or other material over and along streets and other public places upon carts, drays, cars, trucks or in any other manner so loaded as to cause loud noises or as to disturb the peace and quiet of such streets or other public places.
(15)
Piledrivers, hammers, etc. The operation from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. of any piledriver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud or unusual noise without a special permit from the city council.
(16)
Blowers. The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan or any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from such blower or fan is muffled and such engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to deaden such noise.
(17)
Sound trucks. The use of mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or other moving or standing vehicles for advertising or other commercial purposes; the use of sound trucks for noncommercial purposes during such hours or in such places or with such volume as would constitute such use a public nuisance.
(18)
Mechanical music machines. The playing, using or operating, or permitting to be played, used or operated, of any mechanical music machine, jukebox or other noise making device for the producing or reproducing of sound, in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants, or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient and appropriate hearing for the person or persons in the room or building in which such machine or device is operated and who is a voluntary listener thereto. The operation of any such machine or device between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., in such a manner as to be plainly audible from a distance of 50 feet from the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of section 65-529.
(Code 1966, § 16-11; Ord. No. 80-3, 4-28-1980)
Secs. 65-531—65-553. - Reserved.
