ARTICLE III. - ACCESS CONTROL

Sec. 42-322. - Purpose of article.
In order to expedite the movement of traffic, to promote the safety of the motorists and pedestrians, and to minimize traffic congestion and conflict, it is necessary to regulate the points of vehicular access to public roads. To accomplish this goal the following standards shall apply to access control points in Fannin County.
(Ord. of 3-12-2002, § 4.100)
Sec. 42-323. - Access plan—Required.
All commercial and industrial establishments and residential complexes of four or more dwelling units must file an access plan with the Fannin County land development officer when applying for a building permit. The plan shall contain the information required in section 42-324 and shall meet the minimum standards outlined in this article.
(Ord. of 3-12-2002, § 4.101)
Sec. 42-324. - Same—Scale; contents.
An access control plan shall be drawn to scale and shall contain the following information:
(1)
The street name, right-of-way, surface width and surface type of the road from which access is desired.
(2)
The desired point of access in relation to property lines, and any existing access points within 500 feet in both directions of the desired access point on both sides of the road.
(3)
The drainage system of the road from which access is desired within 500 feet in either direction of the point of access and how the proposed access will drain into the road drainage system.
(4)
The distance of sight in each direction from the point of access for a distance of 500 feet.
(5)
The design of the access point to include the width, alignment and surface type.
(Ord. of 3-12-2002, § 4.102)
Sec. 42-325. - Rural access regulations.
(a)
The maximum width of all access points shall be 30 feet measured at the property line except when the development requiring access generates high overall or high peak traffic volumes, the county land development officer may approve a wider channeled access point to allow various turning movements for greater traffic control and safety.
(b)
Temporary accessways may be granted by the county land development officer at locations other than those specified for permanent access where it is expedient for the purpose of staged development. Temporary accessways shall be closed when permanent access to the property is completed.
(c)
No off-street vehicular storage or parking area shall be allowed where arrangement requires that vehicles back directly into a public right-of-way.
(d)
In all commercial developments where a lot abuts more than one street, the county land development officer may require that the access be from the street of lowest classification when necessary to lessen serious congestion on the major street.
(e)
Gasoline service stations shall be allowed two access points onto the same street to allow proper circulation past gasoline pumps. This is regardless of lot width or street classification provided the required plan is approved by the county land development officer.
(f)
In order to limit the number of individual access points to an arterial or collector street, the county land development officer shall encourage and may require the development of frontage roads and interconnecting interior circulation drives.
(1)
Frontage roads are those which parallel the existing street and extend across the entire frontage of a particular large property or group of properties. Frontage roads may be required to provide safe and efficient public access to individual properties. Frontage roads may be required to provide safe and efficient public access to individual properties eliminating the traffic congestion that would be caused if each parcel had its own access onto the arterial or collector street. Access points between the frontage road and the main thoroughfare shall be no closer together than 500 feet and no closer together than 300 feet (measured along the street right-of-way) along collector streets. All frontage roads shall be built to the standards specified in article II of this chapter and shall be dedicated as public streets. Access requirements for property served by a frontage road shall be the same as for property fronting a minor street (i.e., at least 100 feet apart) except that the county land development officer may also allow a regrouping of access points onto the frontage road in accordance with an approved site plan which does not destroy the intent of these access control provisions.
(2)
Interior drives are needed in large developments that require large parking areas. These drives interconnect all parking lot access points with all buildings and areas of vehicular traffic, parking, loading and servicing. They are constructed to provide safe and efficient vehicular movement between specified access points of a development and a series of developments. The county land development officer shall encourage and may require that the interior circulation drives of adjacent developments be connected to eliminate the need to use the public streets to drive from one to the other. All circulation drives shall be clearly defined and marked appropriately with arrows, etc., to assist public circulation into and out of the property and its parking areas. An area of land not less than ten feet deep shall be provided between the public street right-of-way line and the edge of all proposed frontage roads or interior circulation drives. This area will separate the roadways with a minimum turning radius. Such area shall be landscaped and grassed. The county land development officer shall approve the width, placement and design of frontage roads and interior circulation drives.
(Ord. of 3-12-2002, § 4.103)
Sec. 42-326. - Specific access points for state highways.
(a)
All lots having between 100 and 300 feet of frontage shall have no more than one point of access to a state highway. For lots with over 300 feet of frontage, additional access points shall be allowed provided they are spaced at least 300 feet apart from each other and from the first access point. For developments generating high overall or high peak traffic volumes, the county land development officer may lessen the distance between access points to allow improved access provided a carefully planned pattern of internal and external channelization is prepared and approved.
(b)
When a lot of record fronting a state highway has less than 100 feet of frontage, the county land development officer shall first attempt to obtain joint access with either adjacent property or access onto a frontage road. If this is not feasible, one single access point may be allowed and should be located with consideration to the distance to the access points on the adjacent lots.
(Ord. of 3-12-2002, § 4.104)
Secs. 42-327—42-355. - Reserved.
