ARTICLE X. - PLANNING COMMISSION

Sec. 110-325. - Planning commission.
The planning commission consists of that body of members appointed by the board of commissioners to carry out the directives of this and other ordinances and to carry out any other duties which may from time to time be assigned to the planning commission by the board of commissioners.
(1)
Membership and appointments. The planning commission shall consist of five members residing within the county and shall be appointed by the board of commissioners of the county. None of the planning commission members shall hold any other public office, except that one member may also be a member of the zoning board of appeals. The planning commission members shall be removed by the board of commissioners for cause, upon written charges, and after public hearing. Any member of the planning commission shall be disqualified to act upon a matter before the planning commission with respect to property in which the member has an interest. It may be deemed cause for removal should any planning commission member fail, without proper reason, to attend three consecutive meetings.
(2)
Term of office. The term of office for each member of the planning commission shall be three years and the member shall remain on the board until reappointed or a successor is appointed. It is the intent of this section that the terms be staggered with no term limitation.
(3)
Officers; rules and procedures; minutes.
a.
The planning commission shall elect one of its members as chairperson and another as vice-chairperson, each serving for one year or until re-elected or a successor is elected. The vice-chairperson shall act as chairperson in the chairperson's absence. The planning commission shall appoint a secretary who shall be an employee of the county.
b.
The planning commission shall have the authority to adopt rules of procedure.
c.
Meetings of the planning commission shall be held at the call of the chairperson and as scheduled.
d.
The planning commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if they are absent or fail to vote, indicating such fact. The planning commission shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions all of which shall be immediately filed in the planning and zoning department and shall be public record.
(4)
Conflict of interest. Any member of the planning commission shall be disqualified to act upon a matter before the planning commission with respect to property in which the member has an interest.
(5)
Attendance. It may be deemed cause for removal should any member of the planning commission fail, without proper reason, to attend three consecutive meetings.
(Code 1992, § 20-12-1; Ord. No. 2010-11, § 12-1, 12-9-2010; Ord. No. 2013-15, § 1, 10-24-2013; Ord. No. 2017-11, §§ 10, 11, 6-22-2017)
Secs. 110-326—110-353. - Reserved.
