Chapter 90 - VEHICLES FOR HIRE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 74; traffic and vehicles, ch. 82.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 90-1—90-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TAXICABS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 90-26. - Definitions.
Applicant means an individual registering a business authorized herein.
Application means a form supplied by the city for the purpose of registering a business authorized herein.
Business means the business of operating or owning a taxicab business.
City means City of Fayetteville, Georgia.
Closely held corporation means a corporation not traded or listed on any stock exchange and which has fewer than 25 shareholders.
Convicted or conviction shall include a plea of nolo contendere.
Driver, operator means any person in charge of or driving or operating a taxicab, as defined herein, whether as owner, agent, employee or otherwise.
Driver's permit means the permission granted by the governing body to a person to drive a taxicab within the city.
Employee means an individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds FICA, federal income tax, or state income tax from such individual's compensation or whose employer issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form IRS W-2 but not a form IRS 1099.
Highway means any of the public streets, alleys, lanes, boulevards, avenues, drives, circles, or roads of the city.
Individual means a natural person.
Interest in a business means an interest held by an owner or co-owner of a registered business; by a partner of a general or limited partnership which owns or co-owns a registered business; a stockholder of five percent or more shares in any closely held corporation which owns or co-owns a registered business; or anyone sharing in the income or corpus of any trust or estate having such an interest; or a person having subscriptions, options, and/or warranty for purchase of five percent or more of a closely held corporation's stock or 50 percent or more of any corporation's stock.
Owner means a person having an interest in a business, including a stockholder.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, cooperative, nonprofit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business, trust, receiver, fiduciary or other group or combination acting as a unit, body politic or political subdivision, whether public, private, or quasi-public, or any entity.
Taxicab means a motor vehicle operated for hire, the destination of which is under the direction of the passenger(s) transported therein.
(Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-20, 4-15-96)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 90-27. - Construction of definitions.
Words and terms not explicitly defined in these regulations or in the Official Code of Georgia Annotated shall have the meaning given by common and ordinary use as defined in the latest edition of Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary.
(Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-21, 4-15-96)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 90-28. - Adoption of state and federal laws.
All laws of the State of Georgia and the United States of America, including the rules and regulations of any agency thereof, pertaining to the regulation of taxicabs and taxicab businesses are hereby adopted.
(Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-22, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-29. - Compliance with article prerequisite to operation.
It shall be unlawful for any taxicab to be operated within the city unless and until the owner and operator shall have complied with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 0-4-93, 4-19-93; Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-23, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-30. - Penalties.
Any person with an interest in the business, or his employee or agent, who shall violate any provision of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon being found guilty, fined up to $1,000.00 per offense and the approval to conduct business granted hereunder shall be revoked. Operation of any business hereunder in violation of any provision of this article shall constitute a separate offense for each day of operation.
(Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-47, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-31. - Operation of business, driving vehicle; permit prerequisite.
No person shall operate any taxicab business within the city until the approval to operate the business has been granted. No person shall drive a taxicab within the city on behalf of an applicant or owner without first having obtained a driver's permit as provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 0-4-93, 4-19-93; Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-24, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-32. - Revocation of business approval.
An approval to operate a taxicab business under this article or employee permit issued hereunder shall be subject to suspension or revocation for violation of any provision of this article, regardless of the outcome of any criminal prosecution associated with violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-39, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-33. - Employment of certain persons prohibited.
It shall be unlawful in any premises to employ any person in any capacity whatsoever who has ever been convicted, pled guilty or nolo contendere within the past ten years, by this or any other state or by the United States or any other country, of soliciting for prostitution, pandering, letting premises for prostitution, keeping a disorderly place, reckless driving, driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, first degree homicide or feticide by vehicle, serious injury by vehicle, fleeing or attempting to elude a police officer while driving a vehicle, impersonating a law enforcement officer while driving a vehicle, had driver's license revoked, illegally dealing in or convicted of use or possession of narcotics, sex offenses, of any offense relating to the manufacture or sale of alcoholic beverages, receiving or possession of stolen property, theft or burglary related offense, or any statute or ordinance regulating the taxicab business.
(Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-36, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-34. - Employees' list.
It shall be the duty of all businesses to file with the police chief of the city the names of all employees with their home addresses, home telephone numbers and places of employment. Changes in the list of employees, with the names of new employees, must be filed with the police department within three days from the date of any such change. All employees shall be subject to such investigation rules and regulations as may be deemed necessary from time to time by the police department.
(Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-37, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-35. - Examination, inspection and condition of vehicles.
Prior to the use and operation of any vehicle as a taxicab under the provisions of this article, the vehicle shall be thoroughly examined and inspected by an automotive mechanic, approved by the city manager. Such vehicle shall comply with safety and equipment requirements applicable to passenger vehicles provided in O.C.G.A. tit. 40, ch. 8, art. 1, pts. 1—4, and such reasonable rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the chief of police in order to provide safe transportation. The city shall not grant approval of the business until the mechanic has indicated that the vehicles have passed inspection. Every vehicle operating under this article shall be annually inspected as provided herein, prior to the payment of annual occupational taxes. Every vehicle operating under this article shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition. The cost of said mechanical inspection shall be paid by the owner or operator of the vehicle.
(Ord. No. 0-4-93, 4-19-93; Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-43, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-36. - Information to be painted on vehicle.
The correct name, or trade name, and telephone number of the business, and the number to distinguish such taxicab from other taxicabs operated in the city, shall be painted or otherwise firmly and substantially affixed on each side of such taxicab, such numbers and lettering to be prescribed by the city manager and chief of police, all such words, letters, and figures shall be of sufficient size and height to be readily distinguished at a distance of 50 yards in the daytime.
(Ord. No. 0-4-93, 4-19-93; Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-44, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-37. - Regulation of fares and business generally; rate schedule to be posted.
The governing body reserves the right to regulate the rates and fares from time to time to be charged by taxicabs and owners of taxicabs in the city, and to further regulate the taxicab business. The owner and driver of every taxicab operated in the city shall have posted at a conspicuous place inside the taxicab where all passengers may see the same, the rates charged for carrying passengers and the manner of determining the fare to be charged passengers.
(Ord. No. 0-4-93, 4-19-93; Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-45, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-38. - Stands.
Taxicabs shall be operated only from an established place of business, and before using the streets as parking places, operators of such taxicab must secure a permit from the chief of police to park at a particular place, which permit shall not be granted except by and with the consent of adjacent property owners, and no space shall be allowed for more than two vehicles in one particular locality; provided, nothing herein shall prohibit the concentration of a larger number of taxicabs at places where the public is assembled in large groups, such as baseball and football games, city auditoriums, churches, schools, and like gathering places.
(Ord. No. 0-4-93, 4-19-93; Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-46, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-39. - Discharging or receiving passengers; location restricted.
It shall be unlawful for any taxicab operator to stop his taxicab for the purpose of discharging or receiving passengers except at a point as near the righthand curb as possible.
(Ord. No. 0-4-93, 4-19-93; Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-48, 4-15-96)
Secs. 90-40—90-65. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BUSINESS REGISTRATION

Sec. 90-66. - Registration required; limitations.
Every person operating a taxicab business in the City of Fayetteville, Georgia, as defined herein, prior to commencing business shall make proper application to the city and shall pay the occupational taxes and administration fees as set out in article III of chapter 46 of the Code of the City of Fayetteville.
(Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-25, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-67. - Review of applications.
(a)
The city manager or designee shall review all applications for compliance with these regulations. All applicants shall furnish upon request all data, information, and records necessary for a complete background investigation.
(b)
The city manager or designee shall also have authority to prescribe such forms as it deems necessary for the proper administration of these regulations.
(Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-26, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-68. - Location of businesses.
All businesses under this article shall be located in strict compliance with the city's zoning ordinance and at a location with an identifiable street address, which shall be stated on the application along with other required information; and no business under this article shall change its address without obtaining approval from the city manager and police chief.
Sec. 90-69. - Applicant.
The applicant shall be the owner of the proposed business, if the business is solely owned, or a general partner, if a partnership. If a proposed business is a corporation, the applicant must be the president. Otherwise, no other individual may qualify as an applicant.
Sec. 90-70. - Qualifications.
(a)
The applicant and each individual with an interest in the business shall be a citizen of the United States.
(b)
The applicant must be a resident of the county for a period of one year preceding the date of filing application. The time requirement as to residency shall not apply to honorably discharged members of the nation's armed forces who have returned to the city to reside.
(c)
Corporations must either be incorporated in the State of Georgia or must have registered to do business in this state, and only the applying officer must meet the residency requirements.
(d)
No applicant, general manager, or person having an interest in the business shall have been convicted or entered a plea of nolo contendere in any state, the United States, or any other country, within ten years immediately preceding the date of application for any felony, or crime involving moral turpitude, or any violation of the laws of any state, county, or municipality. In those instances involving corporations, this prohibition shall also apply to (1) any closely held corporation's president, vice-president, secretary, treasurer, and all stockholders owning five percent or more of the corporation's stock, or a person having subscriptions, options, and/or warrants for purchase of a closely held corporation's stock that when fully executed would give that person five percent or more of the corporation's stock, and (2) any shareholder owning 50 percent or more of any corporation, whether closely held or not, or a person having subscriptions, options and/or warrants for purchase of a corporation's (whether closely held or not) stock that when fully executed would give that person 50 percent or more of the corporation's stock.
(e)
Applicants shall be the owners of the business premises or the holder of any lease thereon or the general agent of the owner.
(f)
The applicant (individual in case of proprietorship, applying officer in case of corporation, and one of the partners in case of partnership) shall be responsible for the management and operation of the business if approval is granted.
(g)
The applicant shall make a sworn statement of the qualifications to the above and shall place same on file with the city before approval of the business is granted.
(h)
If the applicant is a partnership, all members of the partnership must approve of this application but only one member must meet the requirements for residency. However, all members of the partnership must meet the other qualifications. If approval of the business is granted, the approval shall apply to the partners in the name of the partnership.
(i)
An application shall not be granted, or if granted shall be revoked, should the city manager or his designee find any of the following:
(1)
The applicant and/or person with an interest in the business has conducted any business within the city which has required the necessity for unusual police observation or inspection in order to prevent the violation of any law, regulation or ordinance by the applicant or person with an interest in the business, or it was necessary for the city to take action to compel the adherence to any law, regulation, or ordinance; or
(2)
The location for which the business is proposed will adversely impact the general residential character of the neighborhood in which the business is located.
(Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-29, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-71. - Minimum age of operators.
No approval to operate a taxicab business shall be granted to any person under 21 years of age.
(Ord. No. 0-4-93, 4-19-93; Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-35, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-72. - Application contents and investigation.
(a)
Background investigations shall be made on the applicant and any other person with an interest in the business, and applicants must remit the fees established by the city for such investigations.
(b)
The application shall list the following: If the business is approved, the applicant shall immediately inform the city in writing of any changes in the following information. The applicant shall state the following information under oath on the application:
(1)
The business operation.
(2)
The name and address of the owner, if the business is solely owned.
(3)
Name and address of each applicant and each person who would have an interest in the business as defined in this article. In the case of a corporation, this list would include only those stockholders owning five percent or more of a closely held corporation's stock or a person having subscriptions, options, and/or warrants for purchase of a closely held corporation's stock that when fully executed would give that person five percent or more of the corporation's stock. In the case of a corporation that is not closely held, this list would include only stockholders owning 50 percent or more of a corporation's stock, or a person having subscriptions, options, and/or warrants for purchase of a corporation's (that is not closely held) stock that where fully executed would give that person 50 percent or more of the corporation's stock. In the case of a partnership, each general and limited partner would be included. The capacity in which each person will act (as proprietor, agent, employee, or otherwise) shall also be listed.
(4)
The name and address of the general manager of the particular business location.
(5)
If any person listed in (b)(2)—(4) above has lived at his/her current address for less than ten years, previous addresses for the last ten years must also be listed.
(6)
The name, address and date of birth of each employee working at the business location.
(7)
Description of the business, location, facilities, zoning district of proposed business, and time at which proposed business will begin.
(8)
Each application shall contain a full and complete statement of the business to be engaged in, the type of equipment to be used, the number and a particular description of all vehicles to be operated, including the name and passenger capacity of each vehicle to be used.
(9)
Complete sets of fingerprints for the applicant and any other person with an interest in the business listed in (b)(2)—(4) above shall be taken by the Fayetteville Police Department to be forwarded to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, which shall search the files of the Georgia Crime Information Center for any instances of criminal activity. The Georgia Bureau of Investigation may also submit the fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation under the rules established by the United States Department of Justice for processing and identification of records.
(10)
Proof of payment of investigation fees and/or background check fees as established by the city must be established at the time of application.
(11)
The place or places, other than the permanent place of business of the applicant, where the applicant within the six months next preceding the date of said application conducted business, stating the nature thereof and giving the post office and street address of any building or office in which such business was conducted.
(12)
Credentials from the firm or corporation for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as representative.
(13)
Such other information as to the identity or character of the owner or person or persons having an interest in, or the management or supervision of, the applicant's business, or the method or plan of doing such business as the city manager or city council may deem proper to fulfill the purpose of this article in the protection of the public good.
(14)
Whether or not the applicant, any person having an interest in the proposed business, any owner, principal, agent or employee of applicant or any person having the management or supervision responsibilities of the applicant's business have been convicted of a crime, misdemeanor (including traffic violations) or the violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of such offense and the punishment assessed therefor.
(15)
Such application shall show any other information required by the governing body, city manager, city clerk or chief of police, and shall affirmatively allege that any business conducted upon approval of the application shall be in full and complete compliance with all federal, state, county, municipal and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations with reference to wages, hours, and conditions of employment, and the protection by liability insurance of all persons whom the law requires the operators of such a business to protect.
(Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-28, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-73. - Misleading, omitted or obsolete information.
(a)
Any untrue or misleading information contained in or material omission left out of an original or renewal application shall be cause sufficient for the denial thereof.
(b)
Any information which changes or otherwise becomes obsolete shall be reported to the city manager immediately.
(c)
When any approval of an application is granted on the basis of an application containing misleading or untrue information or omitted or unreported changed material information, such circumstances shall be cause for revocation of approval.
(d)
Any misstatement or concealment of fact in the application shall make the applicant liable to prosecution for false swearing under the law of the state and may be prosecuted as an offense against the city as provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-30, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-74. - Insurance required.
No approval to operate any taxicab business within the city shall be issued or continued unless there is in full force and effect a liability insurance policy for each vehicle authorized in the amount of, at least, $100,000.00 for bodily injury to any one person; in the amount of, at least, $300,000.00 for injuries to more than one person which are sustained in the same accident, and, at least, $50,000.00 for property damage resulting from any one accident. Such insurance policy shall inure to the benefit of any person who shall be injured or who shall sustain damage to property proximately caused by the negligence of a taxicab business owner, his servants, or agents. Such insurance shall be with a company authorized to do business in the State of Georgia and such insurance shall be kept of force. Such insurance shall be subject to approval of the governing body, and termination of the insurance protection shall automatically operate as a revocation of approval to operate a taxicab business within the city. Certified certificate of insurance shall be filed with the city clerk and provisions made with the insurance companies that the city be given ten days' written notice before cancellation of any policy.
(Ord. No. 0-4-93, 4-19-93; Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-41, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-75. - Drug-free workplace policy required.
No approval to operate a taxicab business within the City of Fayetteville shall be given or continued unless there is in place, and fully implemented, a drug-free workplace policy which substantially complies with O.C.G.A. § 50-24-1 et seq., and which includes all drivers.
Sec. 90-76. - Report after application.
After receiving an application and acting thereon as provided for in this article, the city manager shall make a report to the next regular meeting of the governing body, at which time the governing body may either adopt or reject such report. If the governing body then votes to approve the business, the city clerk shall issue the same to the applicant, provided the applicant files a copy of the liability insurance policy as required by this article.
(Ord. No. 0-4-93, 4-19-93; Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-31, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-77. - Form of business approval.
The approval to operate a taxicab business provided for in this article shall be in the following language:
"BUSINESS APPROVAL
___________ is hereby granted approval, subject to the rules and regulations of the city, to conduct the business of transporting passengers for hire under direction of the passenger in compliance with all laws, rules, and regulations of the City of Fayetteville for 12 months, subject to the right of the governing body of the City of Fayetteville to revoke this approval at any time with notice. Not transferable. This _____ day of ________, 19___.
EXPAND
/s/
      City Clerk
    Approved by:
EXPAND
/s/
      City Manager"
    (Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-32, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-78. - Renewal of an approved application.
(a)
The renewal of an approved application is required annually. Such renewal shall be dependent upon proof that the renewal applicant meets all requirements upon which the original application was granted.
(b)
The applicant must provide at the time of application for renewal records which verify and an affidavit substantiating compliance with the requirements set forth in this article, including, but not limited to, the requirements for insurance and for implementation or a drug-free workplace policy.
(Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-33, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-79. - Transfers.
(a)
When approval of a taxicab business is granted pursuant to an application to the city, that approval shall not be transferable, either by location or among persons, except as hereinafter provided.
(b)
In the case of a death of any person having an interest in a business, approval of the business may be transferred to the estate of the deceased person; however, the duly appointed administrator or executor of the estate shall be named as responsible for such interest and said individual shall be subject to the qualifications of an applicant.
(c)
One or more partners in a partnership having an approved taxicab business may withdraw in favor of one or more of the existing partners. In addition, partners or additional stockholders may be added where it is determined that the additional capital furnished is to be exclusively for additional inventory or the expansion of facilities and that the original partners are receiving none of the additional capital invested. All such additional partners or new principal stockholders must be approved by the city, and shall be subject to the qualifications of an applicant. Otherwise, no new ownership may be allowed.
(Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-34, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-80. - Temporary permit prohibited.
No temporary approval shall be granted for the operation of taxicabs in the city.
(Ord. No. 0-4-93, 4-19-93; Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-40, 4-15-96)
Secs. 90-81—90-105. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - DRIVERS' PERMITS

Sec. 90-106. - Required.
No person shall drive a taxicab for hire on the behalf of an applicant or owner upon the streets of the city, and no applicant or owner shall permit it to be so driven, unless the driver of the taxicab shall have first obtained and shall have then in force a taxicab driver's permit issued under the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 0-4-93, 4-19-93; Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-61, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-107. - Application; addenda.
(a)
Before any person may drive any taxicab within the city, he shall make a written application to the city manager for a permit and shall furnish the city with a recognizable wallet-size photograph of himself, such application to be under oath. The application shall be filed with the city manager. The application shall give the full correct name, age, height, weight, color, home, street and post office address of such applicant, and state whether he is of sound mind, has any visible handicaps, has good eyesight, uses intoxicating liquors, drugs, or narcotics, and whether he has ever been convicted of violating any federal, state, or city law, and, if so, the number of times and the kinds of offenses for which he has been convicted and the times when, and the places where such convictions occurred. Such application shall also show for whom the applicant desires to drive and shall furnish any other information desired by the governing body, the city manager, or the chief of police.
(b)
Each application shall be accompanied by a certificate from a physician approved by the city manager, certifying that, in his or her opinion, the applicant is not inflicted with any disease or infirmity which might make him an unsafe or unsatisfactory driver.
Sec. 90-108. - Investigation of application; report; issuance; effective period.
The city manager and the chief of police are charged with the duty of investigating all applications for permits to drive taxicabs and to report to the governing body the results of their investigation, and thereafter, upon approval by the governing body of the application for a taxicab driver's permit, the city clerk shall issue the permit to the applicant, which shall bear the name, address, color, age, signature and photograph of the applicant. Such permit shall be in effect for the remainder of the calendar year. A permit for every calendar year thereafter shall issue to the applicant unless the permit for the preceding year of the applicant has been revoked.
(Ord. No. 0-4-93, 4-19-93; Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-63, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-109. - Posting in taxicab.
Every driver who has been issued a permit under this article shall post his driver's permit in such a place as to be in full view of all passengers while such driver is driving a taxicab.
(Ord. No. 0-4-93, 4-19-93; Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-64, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-110. - Suspension and revocation—Grounds.
Every driver holding a permit under this article shall comply with all city, state, and federal laws, including laws relating to motor vehicle operation and to the operation of taxicab business, and failure to do so will justify the suspending or revoking of the permit as set forth herein.
(Ord. No. 0-4-93, 4-19-93; Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-65, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-111. - Same—Procedure.
The chief of police, assistant chief of police, or the city manager is hereby given the authority to suspend any driver's permit issued under this article for a driver's failing or refusing to comply with the provisions of this article, such suspension to last for a period of not more than 30 days. The governing body shall have the right to revoke any driver's permit for failure of the holder thereof to comply with the provisions of this article. However, a permit may not be revoked permanently unless the driver has received notice and had an opportunity to present evidence in his behalf before the governing body.
(Ord. No. 0-4-93, 4-19-93; Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-66, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-112. - Temporary permit; issuance; period valid; eligibility; information to be stated thereon.
Upon the concurrence of the city manager and the chief of police, a temporary driver's permit for any person to drive a taxicab within the city may be issued for a period not to exceed 30 days, provided the recipient has a state driver's permit that has never been revoked, suspended, canceled or modified and which does not show the holder thereof to have been convicted of operating an automobile under the influence of intoxicants or for violating any state statute governing the operating of motor vehicles. Every temporary driver's permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this article shall have written or printed thereon the name, the person for whom the applicant is to drive, the age, height, color and address of such driver; the date of issuance of such permit and "Temporary Permit Expiring 30 Days from Date Hereof," which quoted words shall be in black face type. The permit shall be signed by the chief of police and the mayor.
(Ord. No. 0-4-93, 4-19-93; Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-67, 4-15-96)
Sec. 90-113. - Additional to penalty.
Upon conviction in the municipal court of the holder of a driver's permit in the city of a violation of any provisions of this article, such permit may be revoked in addition to any other penalty that may be imposed by the court as authorized by law.
(Ord. No. 0-4-93, 4-19-93; Ord. No. 0-16-96, § 22-68, 4-15-96)
Secs. 90-114—90-140. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - LIMOUSINES

Sec. 90-141. - Definitions.
Limousine means any motor vehicle that meets the manufacturer's specifications for a luxury limousine with a designed seating capacity for no more than ten passengers and with a minimum of five seats located behind the operator of the vehicle, and which does not have a door at the rear of the vehicle designed to allow passenger entry or exit; further, no vehicle shall be permitted to operate both as a taxicab and a limousine.
Limousine carrier means any person operating a service regularly rendered to the public by furnishing transportation as a motor common carrier for hire, not over fixed routes, by means of limousines, or extended limousines, on the basis of verbal contract or written contract.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, or joint-stock association, and includes any trustee, receiver, assignee, or personal representative thereof.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 90-142. - Occupational taxes.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-7-85.11, limousine carriers shall be subject to the occupational taxes set forth in article III of chapter 46 of the Code of the City of Fayetteville.
Sec. 90-143. - Regulatory fee.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-7-85.11, the State of Georgia having preempted the regulation of limousine carriers, no regulatory fees shall be imposed on limousine businesses.
