ARTICLE II. - MALT BEVERAGES AND WINE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-1 et seq; wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-1 et seq.

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adequate means sufficient.
Applicant means any one (1) or more persons applying for a city license pursuant to this article or renewal thereof.
Application includes all applications authorized or required under this article and they shall all be in writing, signed and sworn to by the applicant and by all partners if applicant is a partnership and by the president and secretary if applicant is a corporation and by the manager, if any.
At may mean in, near, on, within or about.
Bar means any premises at which a licensee as defined herein derives seventy-five (75) percent or more total annual gross revenue from the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises.
Church includes a synagogue and any other place of permanent public religious worship, and shall exist if a building permit therefor has been obtained, and substantial building materials or supplies for its construction have been moved to the site, or if construction of the church building has commenced.
College or school means only such state, county, city, church or other colleges or schools as teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools and colleges of this state, but shall not include private schools or colleges wherein only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupation or other special subjects are taught.
College, school, library and private dwelling houses shall exist when building permits and substantial materials or supplies for construction of such houses have been obtained and some materials or supplies moved to the site, or building construction on the house has commenced.
Inspector or license inspector means the police chief.
License means a city retail license pursuant to this article granted or issued upon the basis of the alleged truth of a written application therefor to sell wine or malt beverages in the city, as defined by this article, in use zones designated in this article.
Licensee means the owner of a city license under this article or an interest thereof in a place of business to be operated under such license, or an applicant for such a license after the application for such license shall have been approved by the mayor and council and any renewal thereof.
Malt beverages means fermented beverages made in whole or in part from malt, or any similar fermented beverages.
Minor means any person who is under twenty-one (21) years of age.
Original, when used in connection with an application for a license or renewal or transfer of location and all other applications not included in the definition under "renewal," relates to the first license for a given location or first use or application for use or change of use of a given location, or to the first application of a given applicant for use of a location previously licensed or approved for a license under this article.
Park means a city public park, and includes all recreational buildings and facilities and grounds owned or leased by the city.
Premises means not only the room wherein a place of business is operated under a license issued under this article but includes all of the lot whereon such place of business is located; except when such place of business is located in a hotel, motel, shopping center or multiple-store business or office building, it means the place of business only.
Private dwelling means a house or dwelling wherein not less than one (1) person nor more than two (2) families of persons reside, but does not include an apartment house having facilities for housing three (3) or more families, nor does it include a mobile home.
Renewal when used in connection with an application for a license or a location relates to an unrevoked retail license issued under this article to a designated location, on expiration of which unrevoked license the identical owners thereof, but no others, may be entitled to a new annual license for the same but no other location.
Residence means domicile.
Sale or sell refers to a sale of malt beverages or wine at retail, or to sell such malt beverages or wine at retail, under a license issued under this article.
Satisfactory proof means adequate or sufficient evidence to convince an unbiased, impartial, enlightened judge of the existence or nonexistence of a fact, situation or condition.
Store and place of business means a room wherein the sale at retail of malt beverages or wine may be authorized under this article.
Tense means the present, past or future tense may each include either of the other two.
Wholesale license means a city license granted or issued upon the basis of the alleged truth of a written application therefor to sell malt beverages or wine at wholesale to holders of retail licenses issued by the city.
Wine means beverages made in whole or in part from the fermentation of grapes, fruits or berries.
(Code 1966, § 4-1; Ord. No. 1095, § 1, 6-8-87; Ord. No. 16-1489, § 1, 12-12-16)
Cross reference— Definitions; rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-1-2, 3-5-1, 3-6-1.
Sec. 4-2. - Sale of malt beverages or wine; license.
Any person desiring to sell malt beverages or wine within the city must apply for a license for such purpose from the mayor and council by making written application to the city clerk. The application shall be dated, signed by all applicants and sworn to before a notary public or other person authorized by law to take oaths. The application shall designate whether malt beverages or wine or both are to be sold by the licensee and whether the malt beverages or wine will be sold to be consumed on the premises or off the premises, or both.
(Code 1966, § 4-2)
State Law reference— Local license required for the sale of malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-40 et seq.; local license required for dealing in wine at wholesale or retail, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-4.
Sec. 4-3. - Applicants; qualifications.
(a)
The retail licensee and all employees must be persons of good moral character, a citizen of the United States, and eighteen (18) years of age or older; except in the case of a licensee operating a bar, wherein all employees must be persons of good moral character, a citizen of the United States, and be at least twenty-one (21) years of age. The provisions of this section shall not prohibit persons under eighteen (18) years of age who are employed in supermarkets, convenience stores or drugstores from selling or handling malt beverages or wine which is sold for consumption off the premises. Further, the employment age restrictions herein shall not apply to third-party outside vendors or other non-staff individuals who are on the premises for a limited duration and are being compensated to perform a specific task on the premises but are not regularly on the premises nor are on the premises to patronize the business (i.e. deliverymen, construction workers).
(b)
The licensee and all employees shall not have been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor or of any violation of the laws of this state, or any other state relating to the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic beverages as defined in this chapter, malt beverages, wine or any crime involving moral turpitude. A plea of nolo contendere for any felony or misdemeanor of any state or municipal ordinance, except traffic violations, or a forfeiture of a bond when charged with a crime is considered a conviction under this article; provided, however, where the violation is for a misdemeanor, forfeiture of bond or municipal ordinance, the mayor and council may waive same as a disqualification.
(c)
The licensee shall be the owner of the premises for which the license is held or the holder of a lease thereon.
(d)
The licensee shall be solely responsible for the management and operation of the business for which the license is granted and shall be responsible for the qualifications and conduct of his employees.
(e)
The applicant shall make a sworn statement of his qualifications according to this article and shall file the statement with the city clerk before any license is issued.
(f)
If the application covers a partnership, all members of the partnership must be qualified to obtain a license and make a sworn statement of the qualifications. If the applicant is a corporation, all officers of the corporation must meet all requirements of an individual applicant.
(g)
No person shall be granted a license to engage in the sale of malt beverages or wine at retail unless it shall appear to the satisfaction of the mayor and council that such person or the officers of any corporation involved shall be of good moral character.
(h)
Any misstatement or concealment of fact in the application shall be grounds for revocation of the license issued and shall make the applicant liable to prosecution for perjury under the laws of the state.
(i)
No person who is delinquent or past due on any monetary obligations owed to the city, including, but not limited to, ad valorem taxes, business licenses, utility bills, sanitation fees, or any other taxes, fees or monetary obligations, shall be eligible for a permit under this section.
(Code 1966, § 4-3; Ord. No. 10-1427, § 1, 12-27-10; Ord. No. 16-1489, § 2, 12-12-16)
Sec. 4-4. - Wholesale dealers.
Any wholesale dealer in malt beverages or wine licensed by the state, or the agent of such wholesale dealer, shall be granted a license to distribute such beverages in the city only after application for such license to the city clerk and the presentation of satisfactory evidence that he understands this article and the conditions under which retail licenses are issued.
(Code 1966, § 4-4)
Sec. 4-5. - Retail licensees; prohibited acts.
No holder of a license authorizing the sale of malt beverages or wine at retail in the city nor any agent or employee of the licensee shall do any of the following upon the licensed premises:
(1)
Sell malt beverages or wine to a minor;
(2)
Sell malt beverages or wine to any person while such person is in an intoxicated condition;
(3)
Sell malt beverages or wine upon the licensed premises on any day or at any time when such sale is prohibited by law;
(4)
Permit on the licensed premises any disorderly conduct, breach of peace or any lewd, immoral, improper entertainment, conduct or practices;
(5)
Permit consumption of malt beverages or wine upon the licensed premises at any time, unless so permitted by the license in question;
(6)
Purchase any malt beverages or wine from any wholesaler who does not have a valid permit and license from the city.
(Code 1966, § 4-5)
State Law reference— Sales to and possession of alcoholic beverages by persons under 21, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-3-23, 3-3-23, 3-3-23.1; furnishing alcoholic beverages to intoxicated persons, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-22; breaking packages on premises, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-26.
Sec. 4-6. - License required to possess for sale or to sell.
It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, sell or possess for the purpose of sale any malt beverages or wine for which such person does not have a license from the city to sell or possess for sale malt beverages or wine.
(Code 1966, § 4-6)
Sec. 4-7. - Delivery to retail licensee.
Malt beverages and wine shall be received at or delivered to the premises of the retail licensee by no means other than conveyance owned and operated by a wholesale dealer with a license from the city to make deliveries in the city. Transportation of malt beverages or wine to the premises of the retail licensee by any other means shall be grounds for revocation of retail license or wholesale license.
(Code 1966, § 4-7)
Sec. 4-8. - Hours of sale; deadline to close and clear premises for licensees where consumption is allowed on the premises.
(a)
Licensees shall not engage in the sale of malt beverages or wine except during the following hours:
(1)
For retail sales: Between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m. Monday through Friday; on Saturday from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight. Consumption of purchased beverages on the premises shall be allowed only until 2:00 a.m. No malt beverage or wine shall be allowed to remain on any bar, table, or be in possession of any patron after 2:00 a.m. All inventory of alcoholic beverages must be secured after 2:00 a.m.
(2)
Retail licensees shall not sell malt beverages or wine on Sunday or at any other days or times prohibited by state law.
(3)
The business hours of wholesale licensees shall be from sunup to sundown on all days the retail licensees are authorized to sell malt beverages or wine.
(b)
All retail licensees for sale of malt beverages or wine on the premises shall close their businesses and clear their premises, including their buildings and all parking lots and other areas that adjoin such buildings and which are owned, leased or otherwise under the control of said licensee, of all persons, by 2:00 a.m., following such closing.
(Code 1966, § 4-8; Res. of 4-14-86; Ord. of 2-01299, § 1, 7-8-02; Ord. No. 1427, § 3, 12-27-10)
Editor's note— At the discretion of the editor, Section 4-8(2) was amended by deleting the prohibition or sales of malt beverages or wine on election days pursuant to the intent of a resolution effective April 14, 1986. Such resolution was included as a new § 4-01.
Cross reference— Sale of wine or malt beverages on election days, § 4-01.
Sec. 4-9. - Slot machines prohibited.
No retail licensee shall permit at his place of business any slot machines of any kind or character.
(Code 1966, § 4-9)
Sec. 4-10. - Display of prices.
Retail licensees shall indicate plainly inside the premises the price of all malt beverages or wine exposed for sale.
(Code 1966, § 4-9)
Sec. 4-11. - License display; conditions of application therefor.
(a)
Display. The city license shall at all times be kept plainly exposed to view at the place of business of the licensee.
(b)
Oath, material facts required. All applications for licenses, or renewals thereof, shall be executed under oath and shall set out material facts tending to show the applicant to be of good moral character.
(c)
Employees. The name, address, and telephone number of the manager, if different from the licensee, shall be shown on the application and in the event of a change of management, such shall be furnished to the city clerk. All persons employed by the licensee shall be of good moral character and eighteen (18) years of age or older; except when the licensee shall operate a bar, in which case all persons employed by the licensee shall be of good moral character and at least twenty-one (21) years of age. The provisions of this section shall not prohibit persons under eighteen (18) years of age who are employed in supermarkets, convenience stores, or drugstores from selling or handling malt beverages or wine which are sold for consumption off the premises. Further, the employment age restrictions herein shall not apply to third-party outside vendors or other non-staff individuals who are on the premises for a limited duration and are being compensated to perform a specific task on the premises but are not regularly on the premises nor are on the premises to patronize the business (i.e. deliverymen, construction workers).
(d)
Corporate application. If the applicant is a corporation, the names, addresses and telephone numbers of all officers shall be shown on the application and in the event of a change of officer, the name, address and telephone number of the new officer shall be promptly furnished to the city clerk.
(Code 1966, § 4-9.1; Ord. No. 16-1489, § 3, 12-12-16)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-3.
Sec. 4-12. - Retail license fee.
The various fees charged for licenses for the retail sale of malt beverages or wine are on file in the city clerk's office as set from time to time.
(Code 1966, § 4-10)
Sec. 4-13. - Location restrictions.
(a)
No license shall be issued to any applicant where the place of business of the licensee is or will be located within one hundred (100) yards of any school building, school grounds or college campus.
(b)
The distance set out in subsection (a) shall be ascertained by measuring the distance in a straight line in linear feet from the side of the building in which the place of business is or will be located to the side of the building in which is located the nearest library, church, school ground or college campus.
(Code 1966, § 4-11; Ord. No. 15-1464, § 1, 6-8-15; Ord. No. 19-1539, § 1, 6-10-19)
Cross reference— Parks and recreation, Ch. 19.
State Law reference— Location restrictions regarding sale of alcoholic beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21; authority of municipalities to regulate and determine business locations, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-49.
Sec. 4-14. - Transfer of location.
Applications for transfer of licensee locations shall be subject to the same rules and regulations, so far as they are applicable, which apply to an application for an original license. If an application for transfer of location is approved, no pro rata return of the annual license fee shall be allowed, unless such transfer shall have been, for some valid reason, initiated by the mayor and council, or some agency of the city; and, except in such latter case, a new license shall be required for the new location, and a new annual license fee, without any refund or rebate of any of the annual license fee paid for the old location.
(Code 1966, § 4-12)
Sec. 4-15. - Referral of applications to license committee.
A copy of all applications of whatever kind authorized or required under this article, shall be promptly referred to the license committee for a thorough investigation and report of its findings to the mayor and council, except applications for renewals.
(Code 1966, § 4-13)
Sec. 4-16. - Payment of fees.
All licenses and renewal thereof must be obtained and all fees paid by the applicants therefor by certified check or cash at the time of filing application. If application is not approved, the license fee shall be refunded. No sales shall be made after expiration of a license, or renewal thereof, unless a further renewal has been issued and paid for or the life of the expiring license has been extended as authorized in this article.
(Code 1966, § 4-14)
State Law reference— Municipal license fees, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-42; restriction on license fees charged by municipality or county other than where business located, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-43.
Sec. 4-17. - Applications by corporations, clubs, partnerships.
(a)
Where the applicant is a corporation or club, the license, if issued in the name of the corporation or club and all of its officers, having the citizenship and other qualifications and requirements of this article. If the applicant is a partnership, such requirement shall apply to all partners.
(b)
An application of a partnership or similar group of not over ten (10) persons shall be signed and sworn to by all of its members, and of a corporation by its president, secretary and local manager and all of whom must meet the citizenship and other qualifications and requirements of this article.
(Code 1966, § 4-15)
Sec. 4-18. - Public hearings on license applications.
No applications of any kind or nature except an application for a license renewal shall be granted or approved by the mayor and council until after a public hearing has been held thereon by the mayor and council. The applicant shall be given at least forty-eight (48) hours' prior notice of the date, time and place of such hearing.
(Code 1966, § 4-16)
Sec. 4-19. - Status of present licensees.
All persons holding valid licenses on the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived shall be deemed and considered as applicants for renewal when they first apply for a license under the terms of this article.
(Code 1966, § 4-17)
Sec. 4-20. - Term of license.
No license shall issue for less than a calendar year period except such as are issued for 1977 which shall expire on December 31, 1977; and in case of revocation or surrender of a license issued before the expiration of the period for which it is issued, the holder thereof shall not be entitled to receive any refund whatsoever.
(Code 1966, § 4-18)
Sec. 4-21. - Renewals, expiration of licenses.
Applicants in any given year for renewal of their licenses for the next year may file their applications beginning in the month of November before their licenses for the current year expire on the last day of the next month. All licenses issued for a particular year, or portion of such year shall expire on the last day of such year except when extended as provided in this article.
(Code 1966, § 4-19)
Sec. 4-22. - Hearing on renewals.
Application for renewal of licenses shall not require a public hearing unless written objections thereto are filed with the city clerk at least fifteen (15) days before such licenses or the last renewal thereof expires. But if such objections are filed a public hearing on such objections will be held by the mayor and council after the service of notice thereof.
(Code 1966, § 4-20)
Sec. 4-23. - Approval of applications; objections to renewals.
(a)
A city license shall not be issued until the application therefor is approved or granted by resolution of the mayor and council. But when timely objections to an application for a renewal license are filed, the life of the current unexpired license is hereby extended to and through the date on which the mayor and council grants or denies such renewal application, or until the first Tuesday next after the first Monday in the next February, whichever date is first, if the annual license fee for such renewal shall have been deposited with the city clerk for such renewal period within five (5) days after being notified that objections have been filed to his application for renewal of his license.
(b)
Applicants for renewal of license shall be notified of any objections to his application for such renewal within forty-eight (48) hours by registered or certified mail addressed to the licensee at the address of the store operated under his license in the city, which notice shall be dated, signed and mailed by the city clerk and shall include a copy of the objections filed. The objecting person shall be given at least forty-eight (48) hours' prior notice of the date, time and place of the hearing on the application and objections.
(Code 1966, § 4-21)
Sec. 4-24. - Visibility of front entrance.
No license shall be granted for a place of business unless the front entrance to the premises is clearly visible from a public street.
(Code 1966, § 4-22)
Sec. 4-25. - Display of prices and this article.
Each retail licensee shall have conspicuously displayed within the interior of the licensed premises at least one (1) printed price list of the malt beverages and wine offered for sale, and one (1) printed copy of this article. However, a licensee in lieu of having such printed price list may have the prices of the malt beverages or wine offered for sale located and placed on the bottles or containers, or on the bottom of the shelf directly under such bottles or containers, wherein such beverages or wines are exhibited for sale.
(Code 1966, § 4-23)
Sec. 4-26. - Effect of revocation of state license or permit.
When any state permit or license to sell at retail any malt beverages or wine in the city is revoked, the city license shall thereupon stand automatically revoked without any action by the mayor and council or any municipal officer.
(Code 1966, § 4-24)
Sec. 4-27. - Issuance of license upon approval and payment of fee.
When an application for a license, or renewal thereof, has been approved by the mayor and council, and the applicant has deposited with the city clerk the annual license fee, and clerk shall issue such license.
(Code 1966, § 4-25)
Sec. 4-28. - Approval of license prior to completion of place of business; restrictions.
When the license applied for is for a store to be located in a building not in existence when such license application is filed, or construction of such building has been commenced but is not yet then completed, a license may, if otherwise authorized under this article, be issued for such location if the application for such license and the plans for the proposed building clearly show that such building and the distance requirements will, when completed, meet the requirements of this article and the state law. The annual license fee shall not be discounted or reduced for time consumed in building operations after the license is approved, but no sales shall be made at such location until the building has been completed in accordance with the plans, and conforms with all other provisions of the law and this article.
(Code 1966, § 4-26)
Sec. 4-29. - Transfer of licenses.
A license shall not be transferable, except as provided in this section. In case of death of an owner of a license or financial interest therein, such license or interest therein may be transferred to the administrator, executor or lawful adult heir of such deceased person unless the governing authority of the city finds and determines that it would otherwise violate the law or this article. If such legal representative of such deceased licensee does not meet all the requirements of this article, when the time arrives to renew the license, it shall not be renewed.
(Code 1966, § 4-27)
Sec. 4-30. - Retirement of member of partnership licensee; effect.
Nothing in section 4-29 shall prohibit one (1) or more partners in a partnership licensee from retiring in favor of one (1) or more other partners in such licensee who was the partner of the retiring partner when the application was filed and when the partnership license was issued; provided, such withdrawal shall not, without compliance with this article by filing a new application for a new license and having it approved as an original application, introduce or result in anyone not already a member of such partnership being or thereby becoming the owner, holder or controller of a financial interest in the license or store, who had none prior thereto.
(Code 1966, § 4-28)
Sec. 4-31. - Addition of members of partnership licensee or officers of corporate licensee.
A partnership licensee may take in new partners who can and do, with the former partners, qualify for a new annual license, and a corporate licensee may acquire new officers if they can and do qualify under the financial interest, citizenship, age and other restrictive qualification requirements of this article, if it is determined by the mayor and council that the sole reason therefor is the necessity of additional capital furnished, or to be furnished, and to be used exclusively for additional inventory or expanding the facilities of the business, or for building new facilities, and where it affirmatively appears that neither such licensee nor any partner can receive directly or indirectly any legal or beneficial interest in the additional capital invested. Under this section each new partner acquiring a financial interest in the license shall be investigated, and a new license shall be required of a new partnership when new partners are admitted.
(Code 1966, § 4-29)
Sec. 4-32. - Effect of failure to use license.
After approval by the mayor and council of an application for a license or renewal thereof, upon failure to exercise, within nine (9) months from the date of approval of such application by the mayor and council, the privilege conferred by the license, the licensee shall automatically forfeit and cancel the effect of such approval by the mayor and council, and cancel such unused license without refund of any fee paid, unless such failure is due to providential intervention. Every licensee who shall begin to exercise the privilege conferred by a license under this article, but who shall thereafter, for a period of nine (9) consecutive months, fail to exercise such privilege, shall automatically forfeit such license at the expiration of such nine (9) months' failure, and such license shall, by virtue of such failure, be cancelled without further notice or action from the mayor and council, unless such failure be due to providential intervention.
(Code 1966, § 4-30)
Sec. 4-33. - License revocation; due cause, notice.
(a)
No license which may be issued under this article shall be suspended, revoked or cancelled except for cause as defined in this article, after a public hearing upon at least ten (10) days' prior written notice to the licensee of the time, place and purpose of such hearing, with a statement of the reason for suspending, revoking or cancelling such license.
(b)
Due cause for suspension, revocation or cancellation of a license shall consist of any violation of this article or any part of it, or any laws or ordinances of this city or state prohibiting or regulating the business of selling, transporting or dealing in alcoholic beverages as defined in this chapter, malt beverages or wine, or violation of regulations made pursuant to authority granted for purpose of regulating such businesses, or for the violation of any state or federal law involving moral turpitude, or violation of a city ordinance other than traffic ordinances. Due cause may also consist of willfully false statements or conduct of applicant for a license or renewal or willful concealment of material matters of fact in obtaining or preventing another from obtaining a license.
(c)
Notice to a licensee that he must show cause why his license should not be revoked shall consist of a certified copy of a resolution of the mayor and council charging the licensee, on information and belief, with the violation of a law or ordinance provision, or violation of a provision of the state revenue commission, which alleged violation, if true, warrants revocation, and notifying such licensee of the time and place of a public hearing. Such certified copy shall be served on the licensee in person or by delivery of it to the licensee by delivering it to the licensee's authorized agent in this city or if neither of the foregoing methods of service can be effected, then by tacking it to the front of the licensee's place of business in the city. Service shall be perfected by a police officer of this city.
(Code 1966, § 4-31)
State Law reference— Municipal authority to suspend or revoke local licenses, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2(a).
Sec. 4-34. - Notice of change of status of licensee.
When a change occurs in the status of any property, license, condition or facts stated or claimed in any application or report required by this article, a sworn statement of such change and all material facts relating thereto shall be filed with the mayor and council. Failure to do so within thirty (30) days after such change shall, unless such time limit is extended for good cause, be cause for cancellation of a license granted pursuant to this article.
(Code 1966, § 4-32)
Sec. 4-35. - Payment of debt in malt beverages or wine.
No wages or debts may be paid off in malt beverages or wine, unless the amount due one (1) creditor is in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) and then only as authorized by law.
(Code 1966, § 4-33)
Sec. 4-36. - Approval of location.
No license shall be granted or issued unless the business location within the city is at the time of such application approved by the mayor and council.
(Code 1966, § 4-34)
Sec. 4-37. - No issuance of license until all requirements are met.
No pending or future application for a license shall be approved by the mayor and council unless or until it appears that all material and valid requirements of this article have been complied with by the applicants, and that the applicant is qualified for and entitled under this article to the license for which the application shall have been filed.
(Code 1966, § 4-35)
Sec. 4-38. - Entitlement to license.
All applicants for city licenses who meet and comply with the requirements of this article shall be granted such licenses.
(Code 1966, § 4-36)
Sec. 4-39. - Expiration of license upon bankruptcy, receivership, etc.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, every license and renewal thereof issued shall expire and be of no further force or effect in case of bankruptcy, receivership, levy of process or failure to promptly account for and pay the excise tax levied on sales of malt beverages.
(Code 1966, § 4-37)
Sec. 4-40. - Exemptions for nonprofit groups; restriction.
The residence and financial interest ownership restrictions in licensing corporations, partnerships and similar groups shall not apply to purely nonprofit civic, fraternal, patriotic or social clubs or corporations which are or shall have been organized and conducted in this city solely as mutual social benefit membership groups, if no officer, director, trustee, manager, member or stockholder therein can, in any event, derive any financial gain or profit from the sale of malt beverages or wine by such club or corporation.
(Code 1966, § 4-38)
Sec. 4-41. - Malt beverage excise tax.
There is hereby levied and imposed upon all wholesale dealers selling malt beverages within the city a specific excise tax in an amount to be on file in the city clerk's office as set from time to time.
(Code 1966, § 4-40)
State Law reference— Municipal authority to levy excise taxes on malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80.
Sec. 4-42. - Wine excise tax.
(a)
In addition to any annual license fee that may otherwise be imposed by law, there is hereby levied an excise tax computed at a rate to be on file in the city clerk's office as set from time to time. Such tax shall be paid to the city on all wine sold, displayed or stored in the city. The tax shall be paid to the city by the wholesale distributor on all wine sold to retailers in the city as set forth in subsection (b).
(b)
Each wholesale distributor selling, shipping or in any way delivering wine to any retailer shall collect the excise tax at the time of delivery and shall remit the tax together with a summary of all deliveries to each retailer on or before the tenth day of the month following. The tax shall be prorated up or down on all containers and bottles so that each bottle or each individual size container shall be taxed on a per liter basis. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any wholesale distributor to sell, ship or deliver in any manner any wine to a retailer without having collected the tax. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any retailer to possess, own, store, display or sell any wine on which said tax has been paid.
(Code 1966, § 4-40.1)
State Law reference— Municipal authority to levy excise taxes on wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-60.
Sec. 4-43. - Malt beverage and wine excise tax reporting; manner of payment.
Each wholesale dealer selling malt beverages or wine within the city shall file a report by the tenth day of each month showing for the preceding calendar month the exact quantities of malt beverages and wine, by size and type of container, constituting a beginning and ending inventory for the month sold within the city. Each such wholesale dealer shall remit to the city on the tenth day of the month next succeeding the calendar month in which such sales were made, the amount of excise tax due in accordance with this article.
(Code 1966, § 4-41)
Sec. 4-44. - Decals or stamps.
No decal, stamp or other identifying marking shall be required on malt beverages or wine sold within the city.
(Code 1966, § 4-42)
Sec. 4-45. - Tax in addition to other fees.
The excise tax provided for in this article shall be in addition to any license fee, tax or charge which may now or in the future be imposed upon the business of selling malt beverages or wine at retail or wholesale, within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1966, § 4-43)
Sec. 4-46. - Penalty for failure to report or pay tax.
The failure to make a timely report and remittance shall render a wholesale dealer liable for a penalty equal to ten (10) percent of the total amount due during the first thirty-day period following the date such report and remittance were due and a further penalty of twenty (20) percent of the amount of such remittance for each successive thirty-day period or any portion thereof during which such report and remittance are not filed. The filing of a false or fraudulent report shall render the wholesale dealer making such report liable for a penalty equal to fifty (50) percent of the amount of the remittance which would be required under an accurate and truthful report.
(Code 1966, § 4-44)
Sec. 4-47. - Inspections of vehicles.
The city shall have the right at any time to inspect the shipments contained on any truck or any other vehicle of any wholesale dealer, distributor or manufacturer while making sales or deliveries of malt beverages or wine to any retail dealer to any other person within the city. The city shall at any time have the right to have its officers accompany such truck or vehicle while making sales or deliveries within the city and check and verify sales or deliveries made therefrom to any retail dealers or persons within the city.
(Code 1966, § 4-45)
Cross reference— Motor vehicles and traffic, Ch. 17.
Sec. 4-48. - Inspection of inventory.
The city shall have the right at any and all times to inspect all stocks of malt beverages or wine kept and contained in the city by any person selling such beverages at retail and to make inventory thereof. All such persons shall make available to the city officers all information pertaining thereto and shall permit such inspection and inventory to be made.
(Code 1966, § 4-46)
Sec. 4-49. - Tax applicable only to wholesalers who sell to retailers within city.
The provisions of sections 4-41 through 4-49 shall not apply to shipments received and stocks of malt beverages or wine held by any wholesale dealer or distributor who is regularly licensed as such by the city who maintains a permanent place of business within the city and who receives such shipments and holds such stocks for sale or distribution outside the city. But such sections shall apply to any such malt beverages or wine sold by any such resident wholesale dealer or distributor to any retail dealer or other person within the city and all such resident wholesale dealers shall be subject to all of the provisions of such sections as to all sales of malt beverages and wines made by them within the city.
(Code 1966, § 4-47)
Sec. 4-50. - Retail building specifications.
All retail places of business selling malt beverages or wine must meet Southern Standard Building Code, coastal region.
(Code 1966, § 4-51)
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, Ch. 6.
Sec. 4-51. - Purchase of alcoholic beverages by minors.
It shall be unlawful for any minor to purchase any alcoholic beverages as defined in this chapter or any malt beverages or wine; provided that this section shall not apply to any such alcoholic beverages, malt beverages or wine to be consumed for medical purposes pursuant to a prescription by a duly licensed physician under the laws of the state.
(Code 1966, § 4-51.1)
Sec. 4-52. - False representation of age.
It shall be unlawful for any minor to falsely misrepresent his age in any manner whatsoever, for the purpose of illegally obtaining any malt beverage, wine or alcoholic beverage as defined in section 4-51.
(Code 1966, § 4-52)
Sec. 4-53. - Purchase of alcoholic beverages for minors.
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and intentionally act as agent to purchase or acquire any malt beverage, wine or alcoholic beverage as defined in section 4-51 for or on behalf of a minor, except for the authorized purposes set forth in section 4-51.
(Code 1966, § 4-53)
Sec. 4-54. - Sale of alcoholic beverages to minors, intoxicated persons.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, furnish or cause to be furnished or to permit any person in his employ to sell, offer for sale, furnish or cause to be furnished any malt beverages, wine or alcoholic beverages as defined in this chapter to any minor or to any person who is noticeably intoxicated.
(Code 1966, § 4-54)
Cross reference— Permitting minors in poolrooms, § 24-6.
State Law reference— Sales to and possession of alcoholic beverages by persons under 21, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-3-23, 3-3-23.1; furnishing alcoholic beverages to intoxicated persons, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-22.
Sec. 4-54.1. - Penalties for sale to minors.
(a)
Upon conviction for violation of the offense of sale of beer, wine, or other alcoholic beverage to a minor, the person making the sale shall be fined three hundred dollars ($300.00) and the holder of the beverage license shall be warned.
(b)
Upon conviction for a second violation of the offense of sale of beer, wine, or other alcoholic beverage to a minor within a twenty-four month period, the person making the sale shall be fined five hundred dollars ($500.00) and the holder of the beverage license shall be fined five hundred dollars ($500.00) and such license shall be suspended for thirty (30) days.
(c)
Upon conviction for a third violation of the offense of sale of beer, wine, or other alcoholic beverage to a minor within a twenty-four month period, the person making the sale shall be fined one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and the holder of the beverage license shall be fined one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and such license shall be suspended for six (6) months.
(d)
Upon conviction for a fourth violation of the offense of sale of beer, wine, or other alcoholic beverage to a minor within a twenty-four month period, the person making the sale shall be fined one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and the beverage license revoked.
(Ord. No. 1201, §§ 1—4, 4-10-95)
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 1201, adopted April 10, 1995, did not specifically amend the Code; hence, codification of §§ 1—4 of said ordinance as § 4-54.1 was at the discretion of the editor. In the event of a conflict with § 4-55, it is presumed that these more recent provisions shall prevail.
Sec. 4-54.2. - Brown-bagging prohibited.
No licensee shall allow or permit any person to bring onto the licensed premises such person's own alcoholic beverage (defined for the purposes of this section as any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation, malt beverage, wine or fortified wine) for consumption on the licensed premises, which is known as "bring your own bottle" (BYOB) or "brown-bagging."
(Ord. No. 10-1427, § 2, 12-27-10)
Sec. 4-55. - Punishment for violations.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction in the municipal court, be punished by a fine not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) or by imprisonment and labor on the streets of the city for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days. Each day the violations shall continue shall create a separate offense.
(Code 1966, § 4-55)
Sec. 4-56. - Violation grounds for revocation or suspension of license.
Any violation of any provision of this article shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of a license by the mayor and council.
(Code 1966, § 4-56)
Sec. 4-57. - Definitions for sections 4-58 through 4-60.
As used in sections 4-58 through 4-60:
(1)
Alcohol means the product of distillation of any liquid, whether rectified or dilated, whatever may be the origin thereof, and including synthetic ethyl alcohol.
(2)
Malt beverage means any fermented beverages made in whole or in part from malt or any similar fermented beverage.
(3)
Public place means:
a.
The premises of any place of business which is open to and serves the general public and which is not otherwise lawfully authorized to sell malt beverages, wine, spirituous liquors or distilled spirits to the general public for consumption on such premises. It shall be immaterial for the purpose of determining whether a violation of section 4-58 or 4-59 has occurred that the place of business may not have been open for business at the time the act of possession or consumption occurred;
b.
Any motor vehicle, whether moving or standing, if the vehicle is either standing or being operated upon the premises of any place described in subsection (3)a. or if such vehicle is either standing or being operated upon the public streets or alleys of the city; or
c.
The public streets, alleys, parks or other public property of the city.
(4)
Spirituous liquors or distilled spirits means any alcoholic beverage containing alcohol whether or not mixed with water or other substance in solution and including but not limited to the following: brandy, rum, whiskey, gin, vodka, cordials, fortified wines as defined by the Federal Alcohol Administration, and other spirituous liquors by whatever name called.
(5)
Unbroken package means the unopened bottle, can or other container in which the malt beverage, wine, spirituous liquor or distilled spirits were contained when purchased from a retail establishment engaged in the sale of such beverages, wines, liquors or spirits.
(6)
Wine means any beverage produced in whole or in part by the fermentation of grapes, fruits or berries.
(Code 1966, § 4-59)
Cross reference— Definitions; rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 4-58. - Consumption of alcoholic beverages in public place.
It is unlawful for any person to consume any malt beverage, wine, spirituous liquors or distilled spirits in any public place.
(Code 1966, § 4-57)
Sec. 4-59. - Possession of alcoholic beverages in public place.
It is unlawful for any person to possess in any public place any malt beverage, wine, spirituous liquors or distilled spirits unless contained in unbroken packages.
(Code 1966, § 4-58)
Sec. 4-60. - Violation of section 4-58 or 4-59 a misdemeanor.
Violation of section 4-58 or 4-59 of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Code 1966, § 4-60)
Sec. 4-61. - Security cameras required.
(a)
Required. Any licensee which sells malt beverage(s) or wine for off premises consumption is required to install and maintain a continuous recording security camera system.
(b)
Camera locations. Said required security camera system shall include cameras located at each exit door of the establishment so as to capture images of all ingress and egress therefrom with additional cameras located so as to capture all activity at each point of customer transaction including, but not limited to, cash registers, teller machines, and drive through windows.
(c)
Capability requirements. Said required security camera system shall be capable of producing an identifiable and retrievable image with minimum resolution of six hundred forty (640) by four hundred eighty (480) lines on film, tape, CD, DVD, or other removable memory storage device in a format that can be made a permanent record and enlarged through projection or other means.
(d)
Retention. All recordings and data captured by the security camera system shall be retained by the licensee for a period of not less than thirty (30) days after such recording.
(e)
Maintenance and inspection. Such security camera system shall be maintained in complete and proper working order at all times. Such security camera system shall be subject to periodic inspection by the City of Fitzgerald Police Department. In the event of a crime, it shall be the responsibility of the licensee to produce a recording of the incident within twenty-four (24) hours thereof. Such recording shall become the property of the City of Fitzgerald Police department for use as evidence.
(f)
Affidavit. At the time that an applicant seeks the issuance of a license for sale of malt beverages or wine for consumption off premises, or a licensee seeks renewal of such license, said applicant or licensee shall execute an affidavit stating that the business will have, in the case of an applicant, and has, in the case of a renewal, an operating and functioning security camera system that complies with the requirements set forth hereinbefore. Such affidavit form shall be provided by the City of Fitzgerald.
(g)
Violations and penalties. Violation of any provision of this section shall constitute an offense hereunder and be punished as follows:
(1)
Upon conviction of a first violation/offense, the defendant shall be subject to a fine of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) and the court may impose a suspension of all alcoholic beverage licenses issued by the City of Fitzgerald for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days.
(2)
Upon a second conviction of a violation/offense of any provision herein within twelve (12) months of an initial conviction hereunder, the defendant shall be subject to a fine of not more than three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) and a mandatory suspension of all alcoholic beverage licenses issued by the City of Fitzgerald for a period of not less than thirty (30) days and not exceeding sixty (60) days.
(Ord. No. 16-1488, § 1, 10-11-16)
Secs. 4-62—4-80. - Reserved.
