ARTICLE 8. - FINAL PLAT

Sec. 801. - Final Plat Approval Required.
The purpose of this Article is to ensure compliance with the legal recording requirements of subdivisions and the proper installation of all required public or private improvements through the submittal of a final plat.
Sec. 802. - Conformance with Preliminary Plat.
The final subdivision plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary subdivision plat and may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary subdivision plat that the owner proposes to record at any one time, provided that such portion conforms to the requirements of this Ordinance and the Flowery Branch Zoning Ordinance.
Sec. 803. - Responsibilities.
The property owner is responsible for compliance with all requirements of this Ordinance and the Flowery Branch Zoning Ordinance. Approval of a final subdivision plat and acceptance of the public improvements and dedications therein shall not relieve the owner of those responsibilities.
Sec. 804. - Installation of Improvements.
Prior to submission of an application for final subdivision plat approval, all public and private improvements shall have been properly installed and completed in accordance with all requirements and standards of this Ordinance.
Sec. 805. - Final Plat Specifications.
A final plat shall be prepared by a Registered Land Surveyor. In addition, if the subdivision involves public dedications of improvements, the final plat shall be approved and stamped by a Professional Engineer.
The final subdivision plat shall be drawn on an appropriate material and sheet size, and using minimum line weights and letter heights as required by Georgia law for the recordation of maps and plats (O.C.G.A. ยง 15-6-67, as amended), and as acceptable to the Clerk of the Superior Court.
The final plat shall meet the following specifications:
(a)
All data required by Georgia law pertaining to the recordation of maps and plats (O.C.G.A. ยง 15-6-67, as amended).
(b)
Name of the subdivision and street names.
(c)
Name of the former subdivision if any or all of the property has been previously subdivided.
(d)
Location or vicinity map.
(e)
Reference to north point (magnetic, true north, or grid north).
(f)
Graphic scale.
(g)
Total acreage of the property being subdivided.
(h)
Names of owners of record of all abutting land and deed/plat book references.
(i)
Lot lines with dimensions to the 1/10 foot, necessary internal angles, arcs, and chords and tangent or radii of rounded corner.
(j)
Building setback lines (front, side, rear, and build-to lines) with dimensions as to length across each lot and distance from the street right-of-way.
(k)
Lots or sites numbered in numerical order and blocks lettered alphabetically.
(l)
Location, dimensions and purpose of all easements, including slope easements, if required, and any areas to be reserved, donated, or dedicated to public use.
1.
Utility easements. Whenever it is necessary or desirable to locate a public utility line outside of the street right-of-way, the line shall be located in an easement dedicated to the City for such purpose. The easement shall be no less than 20 feet wide for water and 20 feet wide for sewer, or as otherwise acceptable to the City Engineer.
2.
Water course and drainage easements. A publicly dedicated stormwater easement or drainage easement is to be provided along any drainage channel, stream or water impoundment within a development. The easement is to be substantially centered on the water course or surround the high water line of the impoundment. All easements shall be no less than 20 feet wide or as otherwise acceptable to the City Engineer.
(m)
The location and size of all utility lines.
(n)
A listing of the private covenants recorded with each lot or a statement of the location of such covenants, if applicable.
(o)
The extent of any area of special flood hazard, as defined in Flowery Branch Zoning Ordinance, and any wetlands and required stream buffers shall be delineated and labeled.
(p)
Conditions of zoning, special use, or other approval by the city, if deemed appropriate for inclusion on the final plat by the Zoning Administrator.
(q)
Acreage to be dedicated to the public, or as privately maintained (common area, roads, etc.).
(r)
A surveyor's certificate and owner's certificate, as provided in this paragraph. In addition, the original final subdivision plat drawing shall bear the original signature, in black ink, of the registered land surveyor placed across the surveyor's seal in order to be valid and recordable.
Surveyor's Certificate
It is hereby certified that this plat is true and correct and was prepared from an actual survey of the property by me or under my supervision; that all monuments shown thereon actually exist.
The field data upon which this plat is based has a closure precision of one foot in _______ feet, and an angular error of _______ per angle point, and was adjusted using _______ rule.
This plat has been calculated for closure and is found to be accurate within one foot in _______ feet.
By (name): ___________
Registered Georgia Land Surveyor No. _______
Address: ___________
Telephone Number: ___________
Date: ___________
OWNER'S CERTIFICATE
State of Georgia
County of Hall
The undersigned certifies that he or she is the owner of the land shown on this plat and that the plat and the public and private improvements contained therein or associated therewith meet all applicable requirements and standards of the Flowery Branch Zoning Ordinance and the Flowery Branch Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance. The owner further acknowledges this plat and allotment to be his free act and deed, and dedicates to the City of Flowery Branch forever all areas shown or indicated on this plat as public streets, easements or other public use areas, and all water system, sewerage and other public improvements.
Owner's name: ___________
Owner's address: ___________
___________ Date_______
(Owner's signature)
(s)
Plat recording and signature block for the Clerk of Superior Court.
Sec. 806. - Final Plat Application Requirements.
Applications for final plat approval shall include the following:
(a)
Application form. A properly completed application form, as provided by the Zoning Administrator, requesting review for project approval.
(b)
Copies of plats. A set number, as fixed from time to time by the Zoning Administrator, of copies of the final subdivision plat meeting final plat specifications of this Article.
(c)
Fees. Payment of all applicable application and review fees, as established by the Governing Body from time to time.
(d)
Financial guarantee of improvements. A maintenance bond, providing for the maintenance of all public improvements required by this Ordinance in the subdivision, shall be submitted which shall be valid for a period of fifteen (15) months following the date of approval of the final plat. If approved by the City Engineer, an alternative financial guarantee of improvements may be accepted, such as one of the following:
1.
An escrow of funds with the City.
2.
An escrow with a bank or savings and loan association upon which the City can draw.
3.
An irrevocable letter of commitment or credit upon which the City can draw.
4.
A performance bond for the benefit of the city upon which the City can collect.
5.
A certificate of deposit with assignment letter.
Sec. 807. - Review and Approval Process.
The Zoning Administrator is responsible for administering the review and approval process for final subdivision plats, which shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Article. The procedures of this Section may be supplemented by the Zoning Administrator where additional specification is required.
(a)
Review for completeness and application acceptance. The Zoning Administrator shall review the application for completeness at the time of submission. Incomplete applications will be returned to the applicant.
(b)
Distribution and agency review of final plat. The Zoning Administrator may forward a copy of the final plat application to other city departments as may be appropriate, the Georgia Department of Transportation if the proposed subdivision has frontage on or access to a state or federal road, or others as appropriate, for their review and comment. Agency review shall specifically include the approval from the Hall County Environmental Health Department if septic tanks are proposed and the Flowery Branch Utilities Department in cases where connection to city utilities is proposed or required.
(c)
Time period for completion of review. Within two (2) to three (3) weeks following receipt of the application, during which agency review shall be completed, the Zoning Administrator shall collect all written comments or comments marked on plats related to compliance with this Ordinance and the Flowery Branch Zoning Ordinance, and shall submit them to the applicant (not necessarily in consolidated form). The Zoning Administrator shall have sole authority to determine the applicability of any provisions of this Ordinance to the final plat.
(d)
Action. When the Zoning Administrator has determined that the final subdivision plat is in compliance with the requirements, purpose and intent of this Ordinance and the Flowery Branch Zoning Ordinance, it shall be approved. The owner shall be responsible for compliance with all codes, regulations, and zoning requirements and for the satisfaction of all the noted and written comments. If revisions to a final plat are required, the applicant shall resubmit all revised drawings to the Zoning Administrator.
Sec. 808. - Certificate of Final Plat Approval.
When all of the requirements of this Ordinance, and any conditions of zoning have been met, the Zoning Administrator shall sign and date the CERTIFICATE OF FINAL PLAT APPROVAL stamped or printed on a reproducible copy of the final subdivision plat. The executed original of the approved drawing shall be transmitted to the applicant and the Zoning Administrator shall retain the reproducible copy.
Sec. 809. - Recording of Final Plat.
Once the final subdivision plat has received approval as evidenced by the Certificate of Final Plat Approval, it shall be recorded by the applicant with the Clerk of the Superior Court. The applicant shall provide the Zoning Administrator with one reproducible of said recorded final subdivision plat. Recordation of a final plat constitutes approval to begin the sale or transfer of subdivision lots. After recording, the reproducible copy may omit the stamp and seal of the Registered Land Surveyor or the Professional Engineer, or both, upon request.
Sec. 810. - Distribution of Recorded Final Plat.
The final plat is a source of essential information to tax officials, public safety officials, and utility officials, among others. The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for ensuring that each applicable agency listed in this Section receives a copy of the final recorded plat with addresses assigned by the Addressing Department, unless that function is done by another City Department:
1.
The Hall County Tax Commissioner.
2.
The Hall County Tax Assessor.
3.
The Hall County Environmental Health Department.
4.
The City Police Department.
5.
The City Building Inspector.
6.
The City Engineer.
7.
The City Utilities Director.
8.
The Unites States Postal Service (local postmaster).
At the discretion of the Zoning Administrator, additional agencies or persons may be added to the above list.
Sec. 811. - Amendments to Final Plat Approval.
The application requirements and procedures for amending final plats shall be the same as for final plat applications.
Sec. 812. - Dedication of Public Streets and Acceptance of Public Improvements.
(a)
Petition for public acceptance. At any date after twelve months has passed since the date of final plat approval, the subdivider may petition in writing to the Zoning Administrator for the Governing Body to accept public streets and other dedications, in whole or in part, within the subdivision. Said improvements shall not be accepted for maintenance until approved by the Governing Body.
(b)
Completion of improvements. If construction of any required public improvements was authorized by the City Engineer to be deferred at the time of final plat approval, said work shall have been completed during the one-year maintenance period for the subdivision.
(c)
Final inspection. Prior to expiration of the maintenance bond, the City Engineer shall conduct a final acceptance inspection of the public improvements.
(d)
Correction of deficiencies. The owner shall correct all defects or deficiencies in materials or workmanship and make such repairs as necessary to approximate the as-built condition of the improvements.
(e)
Release of bond and public acceptance. Upon certification by the City Engineer that the public improvements depicted on the as-built surveys are in conformance with the specifications of this Ordinance and are in good repair, the Governing Body shall release the maintenance bond and accept the public improvements into perpetual maintenance by the City.
(f)
Warranty deed. Subdivision streets and rights-of-way and other lands to be dedicated to the public shall be accepted by the City only upon the delivery to the Governing Body of a general warranty deed conveying fee simple title of such rights-of-way and lands. The warranty deed shall be accompanied by a certificate of title and a tax transfer form addressed to the Governing Body, certifying that the grantor in such deed is vested with marketable fee simple title to the property conveyed thereby, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances, and further that the individual executing such deed has full authority to do so.
Sec. 813. - Lot Combinations and Boundary Line Adjustments.
An existing lot line forming the boundary between two conforming platted lots located within the same subdivision or a lot line between lots or parcels that have merged to form one building lot may be removed or eliminated through a final plat revision process which conforms to the final plat requirements of this Ordinance. Where separate lots of land are proposed to be combined, they shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator as a final plat for review, approval and recording. In the case no final plat applies to the subject lots or parcels, a boundary survey and plat depicting all lots involved in the lot combination shall be required to be approved by the Zoning Administrator and recorded as a final plat. Such combination plat shall be titled with the same name as that of the original subdivision, if applicable, and shall indicate thereon that the re-plat is for the purpose of removing the lot lines between specific lots.
One or more existing lot lines forming boundaries between conforming platted lots located within the same subdivision, or one or more lot lines between abutting lots, may be adjusted through a final plat revision process that requires the approval of the Zoning Administrator and recording of a plat meeting the specifications of a final plat. In the case no final plat applies to the subject lots or parcels, a boundary survey and plat of the entire lots involved in the boundary line adjustment shall be required to be approved by the Zoning Administrator and recorded. Such plat showing said boundary line adjustment shall be titled with the same name as that of the original subdivision and shall specify thereon that the re-plat is done for the purpose of adjusting the lot lines between specific lots.
_____
