ARTICLE 3. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 301. - Generally.
Except as specifically defined herein, all words used in this Ordinance have their customary dictionary definition. Words used in the present or past tense include the future. Words in the singular include the plural, and vice versa. The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter, and vice versa; when the sense so indicates, words of the neuter gender may refer to any gender. The word "building" includes any structure. The word "shall" is mandatory. The word "may" is permissive.
Sec. 302. - Definitions.
Access: A way or means of approach to provide physical entrance to a property.
Access easement: An easement devoted to vehicular access which affords a principal means of access to abutting property or properties, but which is not necessarily open to the general public and which is not necessarily improved to standards of the County.
Administrative appeal: A request for a review of the Zoning Administrator's interpretation of any provision of this Ordinance, or an action taken by the Zoning Administrator in the application or enforcement of this Ordinance.
Applicant: A property owner or their authorized representative who has petitioned the City for approval of an application under the terms of this Ordinance.
Alley: A public or private thoroughfare that affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
Best Management Practices (BMPs): A collection of structural practices and vegetative measures which, when properly designed, installed and maintained, will provide effective erosion and sedimentation control.
Block: A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by roads.
Buildable area: The portion of a lot which is not located within any minimum required yard, landscape strip/area or buffer; that portion of a lot wherein a principal building may be located.
Building: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and intended for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of any individual, animal, process, equipment, goods, or materials of any kind.
Center line: That line connecting the succession of midpoints between the identifiable limits of any improvements on the ground or of any easement.
City: The City of Flowery Branch, Georgia.
City Attorney: The Attorney of the City of Flowery Branch, Georgia.
City Engineer: The professional engineer of the City of Flowery Branch, whether on staff or a consulting engineering firm in the employ of the City of Flowery Branch.
Common area: Land within a development, not individually owned or dedicated to the public, and designed for the common usage of the development. These areas include green open spaces and yards and may include pedestrian walkways and complimentary structures and improvements for the enjoyment of residents of the development. Maintenance of such areas is the responsibility of a private association, not the public.
Common contiguous parcels: Parcels adjoining or touching other land at a common point and having a common owner, regardless of whether portions of the parcels have separate tax lot numbers, were purchased in different land lots, or were purchased at different times.
Comprehensive plan: Any plan by a county or municipality covering such county or municipality or any plan by a regional development center covering the centers region proposed or prepared pursuant to the minimum standards and procedures for preparation of comprehensive plans and for implementation of comprehensive plans, established by the Department of Community Affairs. (Georgia Code Section 50-8-2); Those coordinated plans or portions thereof which have been prepared by or for the City of Flowery Branch for the physical development of the jurisdiction; or any plans that designate plans or programs to encourage the most appropriate use of the land in the interest of public health, safety and welfare.
Conservation: The management of natural resources to prevent waste, destruction, or degradation.
Conservation easement: A nonpossessory interest of a holder in real property imposing limitations or affirmative obligations, the purposes of which include retaining or protecting natural, scenic, or open-space values of real property; assuring its availability for agricultural, forest, recreational, or open-space use; protecting natural resources; maintaining or enhancing air or water quality; or preserving the historical, architectural, archeological, or cultural aspects of real property. (Georgia Code Section 44-10-2)
Conservation subdivision: A subdivision, where open space is the central organizing element of the subdivision design, that identifies and permanently protects all primary and all or some of the secondary conservation areas within the boundaries of the subdivision, and that clusters housing together on smaller lots than in conventional subdivisions.
Cross-section: A profile of the ground surface perpendicular to the centerline of a road, stream, or other feature.
Cul-de-sac: A road having one end open to traffic and being permanently terminated at the other end by a vehicular turn-around.
Cul-de-sac, temporary: A non-permanent vehicular turn around located at the termination of a street or alley, created for construction and not accepted as a public improvement.
Curb: A boundary, usually constructed of concrete, usually marking the edge of a roadway or paved area, which is designed to channel storm water to drainage inlets and/or prevent or deter access.
Curb radius: The curved edge of a road at road intersections.
Cut: A portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to excavated surface. Also known as "excavation."
Deceleration lane: An added roadway lane of a specified distance that permits vehicles to leave the main vehicle stream and slow down.
Dedication: The deliberate appropriation of land by an owner for any general and public use or purpose, reserving to himself no other rights than such as are compatible with the full exercise and enjoyment of the public uses to which the property has been devoted.
Dedication plat: A plat that indicates property to be dedicated for public right-of-way or land for public use.
Deflection angle: The angle between a deviation in the direction of the center line of a street and the extension of the center line along a straight course from the point from which the center line changed direction.
Detention: The temporary retraining of storm water on-site.
Detention pond: A pond or pool used for the temporary storage of storm water runoff and which provides for the controlled release of such storm water.
Development: Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or permanent storage of materials; any land-disturbing activity which alters the elevation of the land, removes significant vegetation, or causes structures of any kind to be erected or removed.
Development permit: Approval by the Zoning Administrator to proceed with development. For purposes of this Ordinance, the development permit required by this Ordinance shall be coordinated with the permit required for compliance with Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Ordinance of the City of Flowery Branch, as amended, and the City of Flowery Branch Zoning Ordinance.
Development plan: Any plan containing substantial information required to be filed by this Ordinance, which shows how the property to be affected by the development will be changed and improved in a specific manner, including the installation of roads and utilities and the erection of buildings and structures, among other specific requirements.
Development site: Any and all areas within which "development" takes place.
Drainage easement: An easement appurtenant or attached to a tract or parcel of land allowing the owner of adjacent tracts or other persons to discharge stormwater runoff onto the tract or parcel of land subject to the drainage easement. Both streams and storm drainage channels are required to have easements for maintenance purposes as specified in this Ordinance.
Drainage structure: A device composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for storm-water management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
Driveway: A constructed vehicular access serving one (1) or more properties and connecting to a public or private street, as distinguished from a platted, public or private street.
Easement: A non-possessory interest in land; a grant by a property owner for the use by the public, a corporation or persons, of a portion of land for a specified purpose or purposes.
Environmental Health Department: The Hall County Environmental Health Department.
Escrow account: A type of subdivision improvement guarantee where the subdivider deposits either cash, a note, a bond, or some other instrument readily convertible to cash for specific face value specified by the Zoning Administrator to cover the costs of required improvements.
Excavation: A portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to excavated surface. Also known as "cut."
Fill: A portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground.
Fire flow: The flow of water required to extinguish the largest probable fire served by a water facility.
Gated community: Residential areas that restrict access to normally public roads and spaces. These are subdivisions of usually high-end houses. Gates can include guard houses, electronic arms operated by card, codes, or remote control devices. Visitors must stop to be verified for entry.
Grade, natural: The existing grade or elevation of the ground surface that exists or existed prior to man-made alterations, such as grading, grubbing, filling, or excavating.
Grading: Altering the shape or topography of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping, or any combination thereof, and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition. (see also land-disturbing activity)
Gradient: The rate of vertical change between two distance points, determined by dividing the vertical distance by the horizontal distance (i.e., rise over run).
Grading: Altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Governing Body: The Flowery Branch, Georgia, Mayor and City Council.
Greenway: A linear park or open space conservation area that provides recreational opportunities, pedestrian and/or bicycle paths, and/or conservation of open spaces or natural areas.
Group Development Project: A shopping center or other development with multiple buildings arranged as a group, no less than twenty acres in size, which is subdivided into lots but not in the customary manner so as to meet zoning requirements for lot size, lot width, lot frontage, building setbacks, lot coverage, and other dimensional requirements customarily related to buildings and lot line configurations. A primary purpose of a group development project is to permit the subdivision of a shopping center or other development so that each building may be located on its own fee-simple lot that does not necessarily meet all zoning requirements, but where the shopping center or other development meets applicable zoning requirements as a whole (i.e., all land area included in the development).
Half street: A portion of the ultimate width of a road or street where the remaining portion of the road or street shall be provided at a future date.
Highway: A term applied to streets and roads that are under the jurisdiction of the Georgia Department of Transportation or federal highway agency. Highways are major arteries of the city and county circulation network, carry significant volumes of traffic for both long and short trips, and are designed with access to abutting properties with some degree of control and safe standards of design.
Home owners association: An organization formed for the maintenance and operation of the common areas of a development, where membership in the association is available to a person who has purchased of a dwelling unit or lot within the development, and which may have the ability to legally assess each owner of a dwelling unit or lot and which may have authority to place a lien against all dwelling units and lots within the development.
Impact: The effect of any direct man-make actions or indirect repercussions of man-made actions on existing physical, social, or economic conditions.
Improvements: The physical addition and changes to land that may be necessary to produce usable, desirable and acceptable lots or building sites.
Land development: Any land change, including but not limited to clearing, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, construction, paving and any other installation of impervious cover.
Land development activity: Those actions or activities which comprise, facilitate or result in land development.
Land disturbance: Any land or vegetation change, including, but not limited to, clearing, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, that do not involve construction, paving or any other installation of impervious cover.
Land-disturbance activity: Those actions or activities which comprise, facilitate or result in land disturbance.
Land-disturbing activity: Any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state water or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land but not including agricultural practices exempt from the City's Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Ordinance.
Letter of credit: A type of subdivision improvement guarantee whereby a subdivider secures an instrument from a bank or other institution or from a person with resources sufficient to cover the cost of improvements required by the City. The instrument pledges the creditor to pay the cost of improvements in case of default by the subdivider.
Lot: A portion or parcel of land intended as a unit for transfer of ownership or for development or both, intended to be devoted to a common use or occupied by a building or group of buildings devoted to a common use, and having principal frontage on a public road or an approved private road. In determining the area and dimension of a lot, no part of the right-of-way may be included.
Lot of record: A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has been recorded in the records of the Clerk of Superior Court of Hall County prior to the enactment of a zoning ordinance on September 30, 1972; or a parcel of land, the deed of which has been lawfully recorded in the same office as of the effective date of this zoning ordinance; or any lot lawfully established by plat after the effective date of this ordinance.
Lot area: The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot, exclusive of public road rights-of-way or private road or access easements, where they exist.
Lot, corner: A lot abutting upon two or more roads at their intersection.
Lot depth: The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
Lot, double frontage: A lot other than a corner lot that has frontage upon two or more roads that do not intersect at a point abutting the property.
_____
_____
Lot, flag: A tract or lot of land of uneven dimensions in which the portion fronting on a public road or where existing, a private road, is less than the required minimum width for construction of a building or structure on that lot. Such lots have elongated access from the road and a conventionally proportioned building site at the rear of the lot.
Lot frontage: The width in linear feet of a lot where it abuts the right-of-way of any public road, or where it exists, a private road.
Lot width: The distance between side lot lines measured at the regulatory/required building line.
Metes and bounds: A system of describing and identifying land by distances or measures (metes) and bearings or direction (bounds) from an identifiable point of reference, such as a monument or other marker or the corner of intersecting roads.
Open space: Land and water areas retained for use as passive recreation areas or for resource protection or conservation in an essentially undeveloped state.
Original tract: A unit of land which the owner holds under single or unified ownership, or which the owner holds controlling interest on the effective date of this Ordinance, where all land abutting said tract is separately owned by others, not related to or associated by business partnership with the owner.
Pavement width: The width of a given lane, road, or other road pavement width, measured from back-of-curb to back-of-curb or to the edge of pavement where no curbs are required or exist.
Performance bond: A type of subdivision improvement performance guarantee in the form of a bond, secured by the subdivider from a bonding company, in an amount specified by the Zoning Administrator to cover the costs of required improvements, and payable to the City. The City may call in the performance bond in the event the subdivider defaults on required improvements.
Performance guarantee: Any financial deposit or other security that may be accepted by the City as a guarantee that improvements required as part of an application for subdivision or land development are satisfactorily completed in conformance with approved plans.
Person: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of this State, any interstate body, or any other legal entity.
Plat, final: A finished drawing of a subdivision showing completely and accurately all legal and engineering information, certification, and all other elements and requirements set forth in this Ordinance and O.C.G.A. ยง 15-6-7, prepared for filing for record with the Clerk of the Hall County Superior Court.
Plat, preliminary: A drawing which shows the proposed layout of a subdivision in sufficient detail to convey to the City the concept and workability of a subdivision, but not complete in form or detail required for recording.
Potable water: Water that is suitable for human consumption, human contact, or in the preparation of foods for human consumption.
Preserve: An area in which beneficial uses or natural landforms in their present condition are protected; for example, a nature preserve or wildlife habitat management area.
Professional engineer: An engineer duly registered or otherwise authorized by the State of Georgia to practice in the field of civil engineering.
Protective covenants: Contracts made between private parties as to the manner in which land may be used, with the view toward protecting and preserving the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
Public improvement: The construction, enlargement, extension or other construction of a facility intended for dedication to the City, including but not limited to a street, curb and gutter, sidewalk, cross drain, catch basin, traffic control and street name sign, or other roadway appurtenance other than a driveway apron connection; domestic water supply system main, fire hydrant, valve or other appurtenance other than a supply line to a building; or sanitary sewerage main or outfall, lift station, force main, manhole or other appurtenance other than a drain line from a building.
Publicly dedicated: Land or improvements that have been transferred by plat or deeded to and accepted by the City for public use and maintenance.
Regional Development Center: The Georgia Mountains Regional Development Center.
Registered land surveyor: A surveyor duly registered or otherwise authorized by the State of Georgia to practice in the field of land surveying.
Reservation: The designation by plat or deed of a certain area reserved for possible future public purposes. A reservation does not transfer title of the reserved area to the public unless the Governing Body of Flowery Branch, Georgia accepts the area for public purposes.
Reserve strip: A strip or tract of land reserved for the purpose of controlling or limiting access from properties to abutting streets.
Resubdivision: The act of changing an existing lot created by a plat and recorded in the Office of the County Superior Court Clerk of Hall County, Georgia.
Retaining wall: A wall or similar structure used at a grade change to hold soil on the up-hillside from slumping, sliding, or falling.
Retention: The permanent maintenance of storm water on-site.
Retention pond: A pond or pool used for the permanent storage of storm water runoff.
Right-of-way, public: That area, distinguished from an easement or private road right-of-way, which is owned in fee-simple title by the City of Flowery Branch or other government, for the present or future use of roads, roads and highways, together with its drainage facilities and other supporting uses and structures.
Right-of-way, private: That area, distinguished from an access easement or public right-of-way, dedicated to property owners of the subdivision involved or to other individuals, and which affords permanent access to abutting property or properties. A private right-of-way is distinguishable from a public road right-of-way in that maintenance and ownership of the road and accessory improvements is by private individuals or a private association rather than the City of Flowery Branch or another governmental entity.
Riprap: Rocks, rubble, or stones, irregularly shaped and at least six inches in diameter, used for erosion control and soil stabilization.
Road: A state highway, a county road, a street owned and/or maintained by the City, or where permitted, a private road. Roads afford the principal means of access to abutting property or properties and are required to meet specifications contained in this Ordinance. The term includes "street" but does not include "access easement."
Road, private: An improved road, distinguished from a public road in that the right-of-way which affords a principal means of access to abutting property or properties is privately owned and maintained. Private roads are required to meet specifications contained in this Ordinance.
Road, public: A state highway, county road, or a street owned and/or maintained by a municipality. New public roads are required to meet specifications contained in this Ordinance.
Roadbed: That portion of a street improved for vehicular travel, including the curbs and shoulders.
Roadway: The paved portion of a street improved for vehicular travel, measured from back of curb to back of curb.
Roadway drainage structure: A device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled way consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Runoff coefficient: Ratio of the amount of rain which runs off a surface to that which falls on it; a factor from which runoff can be calculated.
Septic tank: An approved watertight tank designed or used to receive sewage from a building sewer and to affect separation and organic decomposition of sewerage solids, and discharging sewage effluent to an absorption field or other management system.
Sewer: An artificial and usually subterranean conduit designed to carry off sewage and/or water. The term includes any pipe, manhole, connection, or other appurtenances thereto, located in a public right-of-way or easement that is designed to transport sewage and/or water.
Sewer, sanitary: A sewer that carries sewage and residential, commercial or industrial waste.
Sewer, storm: A sewer that carries storm, surface, and ground water drainage but excludes sewage and residential, commercial, and industrial wastes.
Sidewalk: A hard-surfaced pedestrian access area adjacent to or within the right-of-way of a public road or private road.
State waters: Includes any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state, which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation. (Georgia Code Section 12-7-3)
Street: A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way, or a private street approved by the city, which affords the principal means of access for motor vehicles to abutting properties.
Street, dead end: A street connected to another street at only one end.
Street, major: An existing or proposed street or highway designated in the comprehensive plan as an arterial or collector street.
Street jog: The incidence where two streets or two portions of a single street are separated by a relatively short distance, usually at their intersection with another street. (See illustration)
Structure: Anything built, constructed or erected, or established or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner, the use of which requires location on the ground or which is attached to something having permanent location on the ground. For purposes of this ordinance, swimming pools, tennis courts, signs, dog houses, and outdoor fenced animal runs are considered structures. Tents, vehicles, trailers, and play equipment attached to the ground in some permanent or temporary way shall be considered structures. A structure may or may not be easily moved from a given location on the ground. Walls and fences are considered structures but are subject to setback regulations for walls and fences rather than principal or accessory building setback regulations. Driveways and parking lots are not considered structures.
Subdivision: The division of a tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots, building sites, lease lots, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, lease, legacy, or building development. The term shall include the opening of a new road, a change in existing roads, or divisions of land involving the extension of water, sewer, or gas lines. The term includes re-subdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdivision or to the land or area subdivided.
Tangent: The straight-line distance between the ending of one curve of a line (center line of a street) and the beginning of another curve of the same line (center line).
Trail: A way designed for and used by equestrians, pedestrians, and/or cyclists using non-motorized bicycles.
Utilities: All lines and facilities related to the provision, distribution, collection, transmission, or disposal of water, storm and sanitary sewage, oil, gas, power, information, telecommunication and telephone cable, and including facilities for the generation of electricity.
Vacation: The termination of, or termination of interest in, an easement, right-of-way, or public dedication of land.
Variance: A minimal relaxation or modification of the strict terms of this Ordinance as applied to specific property when, because of particular physical surroundings, shape, or topographical condition of the property, compliance would result in a particular undue hardship upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience or a desire to make a profit.
Vicinity map: A map, not necessarily to scale, showing the general location of the proposed subdivision or land development in relation to major roads and/or natural features.
Well: A hole or shaft excavated, bored, drilled, dug, or driven to tap an underground supply of water.
Zoning Administrator: The Manager of Planning and Community Development of the City of Flowery Branch (or any similar position as it may be retitled), or authorized designee.
