ARTICLE 2. - REFERENCE TO OTHER REGULATIONS

Sec. 201. - Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control.
No land shall be platted or developed except in compliance with the Flowery Branch Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Ordinance (Ordinance No. 249), as amended.
Sec. 202. - Reference to Zoning Ordinance.
All subdivisions and land developments shall comply as required with the zoning ordinance of the City of Flowery Branch, as may be amended from time to time.
No person shall subdivide or develop land, and the Zoning Administrator shall not approve any subdivision or development of land, unless the lots created pursuant to said subdivision or the land use or development activity meet or exceed all applicable requirements of the zoning district in which it is located, and the zoning ordinance generally.
Sec. 203. - Special Review of Subdivisions along State Routes.
No subdivision plat containing land that abuts a state route shall be approved until such plat has been submitted for review and comment by the Georgia Department of Transportation, in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. ยง 32-6-151.
When the City receives such a plat, it shall submit two copies of the proposed subdivision plat to the Georgia Department of Transportation if such proposed subdivision includes or abuts on any part of the state highway system. The Georgia Department of Transportation, within 30 days of receipt of the plat, shall recommend approval and note its recommendation on the copy to be returned to the Flowery Branch Zoning Administrator or recommend rejection. Failure of the Georgia Department of Transportation to act within this 30 day period shall constitute approval. If the plat is recommended for rejection, the reasons for rejection and requirements for approval shall be given the Flowery Branch Zoning Administrator in writing. A recommendation for rejection shall be binding on the City unless the City, by official action recorded in its minutes, overrules the recommendation for rejection.
Sec. 204. - Reference To State and Federal Land Subdivision Laws.
The subdivision of land shall comply, as applicable, with the federal and state full disclosure requirements for land sales. All subdivision plats shall also comply with applicable state law regarding accuracy and content of all such subdivision plats.
