ARTICLE 3. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS AND OFFICIAL ZONING MAP

Sec. 3.1. - Intent.
In addition to the various purposes articulated in Article 1 of this Ordinance, the zoning districts established in this Article are intended to: promote the orderly future development of the municipality in accordance with its comprehensive plan; discourage sizes and types of development which would create excessive requirements and costs for public services; discourage uses which because of their size or type would generate an abnormal amount of traffic on streets in the City; establish relationships between and among land uses that will ensure compatibility and maintain quality of life; and protect and promote suitable environments for family and household residences, institutions, offices, commercial, industrial and other uses.
Sec. 3.2. - Zoning Districts Established.
The following zoning districts are hereby established:
A, Agricultural District
R-1, Residential Low-Density District
R-2, Residential Moderate-Density District
R-3, Residential Multi-Family District
TND, Traditional Neighborhood Development District
PUD, Planned Unit Development
MHP, Manufactured Home Park
O-P, Office-Professional District
INST, Institutional District
NS, Neighborhood Shopping District
HB, Highway Business District
CBD, Central Business District
M-1, Light Manufacturing and Industrial District
M-2, Heavy Manufacturing and Industrial District
( Ord. No. 348-13, ยง 2, 8-18-2011 )
Sec. 3.3. - Official Zoning Map.
The boundaries of zoning districts created by this ordinance are hereby established as shown on map entitled "Official Zoning Map" of the City of Flowery Branch, Georgia.
Said official zoning map and all explanatory matter thereon accompany and are hereby made a part of this zoning ordinance. The official zoning map shall indicate the date of adoption and most recent amendment. The original of the official zoning map shall be kept in the office of the city clerk.
The official zoning map may be kept electronically in a geographic information system and such electronic data shall constitute an integral part of the official zoning map. The Zoning Administrator may make copies of the official zoning map available to the public for a reasonable fee.
Sec. 3.4. - Revision of the Official Zoning Map.
If, in accordance with the provisions of this zoning ordinance, the Governing Body approves changes in the zoning district boundaries or other subject matter portrayed on the official zoning Map, such changes shall be made promptly after the amendment has been approved by the Governing Body. The procedure for amending the official zoning map is specified in this zoning ordinance (see Article 34).
The Zoning Administrator is authorized to correct errors in the official zoning map, which may include revisions to property lines which form a zoning boundary, without a requirement to seek approval of the Governing Body or initiate procedures for amending the official zoning map.
( Ord. No. 348-13, ยง 3, 8-18-2011 )
Sec. 3.5. - Character Areas Established.
new
The character areas presented in map and text form in the adopted comprehensive plan of the City of Flowery Branch, Georgia, are hereby adopted as if fully set forth in this ordinance. The recommendations for appropriate development specified in the comprehensive plan for character areas and future land uses shall be applicable to development in the form of guidelines. Furthermore, to the extent this zoning ordinance provides regulations for character area districts, they are mandatory and shall be followed.
The boundaries of character areas as established in the adopted comprehensive plan shall not be amended through the zoning map amendment process established in this zoning ordinance, and such character area boundaries shall only be changed by amending the adopted comprehensive plan.
( Ord. No. 657 , ยง 1(Exh. A), 12-16-2021)
Sec. 3.6. - Overlay Districts.
The city may adopt overlay districts, including overlay districts for purposes of historic preservation. If adopted, overlay districts shall be shown on the official zoning map or on a separate overlay district map which is referenced in this zoning ordinance. This provision shall not be construed as repealing or preventing the city's separate adoption by ordinance of historic district regulations. The procedure for adopting or amending an overlay district boundary shall be the same as for amending the official zoning map, as specified in this zoning ordinance (see Article 34).
Sec. 3.7. - Rules Governing Boundaries.
Where the boundaries of the various zoning districts, overlay districts, or character districts adopted in this zoning ordinance are unclear or in dispute, the Zoning Administrator shall interpret the boundary and make a final determination which may be appealed pursuant to Article 39 of this zoning ordinance. In interpreting the boundaries, the Zoning Administrator shall be bound by the following rules governing mapped boundaries.
(a)
Streets. Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline of streets or highways, street right-of-way lines or such lines extended, such centerline, street right-of-way lines or such lines extended shall be construed to be such boundaries. Where boundaries are indicated as approximately paralleling the centerline of streets or highways, the location of said boundaries shall be determined by using an engineering scale on the map showing such boundaries.
(b)
City Limits. Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the corporate limit line of the city, such corporate limit line shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(c)
Property Lines. Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following property lines or such lines extended, such property lines or such lines extended, as indicated by boundary survey, deed or legal description maintained in the official file of said zoning adoption or amendment, if available, shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(d)
Streams and Rivers. Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline of stream beds or river beds, or the edge of such stream or river, such centerline or edges shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(e)
Abandonment or Vacation of Right-of-Way. Where a public street or other right-of-way is officially vacated or abandoned, and said street or right-of-way is also a zoning district boundary, the regulations applicable to the property to which it reverted shall apply to such vacated or abandoned public street or right-of-way.
