ARTICLE 4. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 401. - Delegation of Authority to Zoning Administrator.
The Mayor and City Council of Flowery Branch hereby delegates to the Zoning Administrator the following powers and duties, which shall not be considered limiting:
(a)
Preliminary plats. To review and make recommendations to the Governing Body regarding preliminary plats.
(b)
Final plats. To approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove final plats, lot combination plats, and boundary line adjustments, provided, however, such delegation does not authorize the Zoning Administrator to accept public improvements for the Mayor and City Council of Flowery Branch.
(c)
Development plans. The Zoning Administrator is vested with the authority to review, approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove development plans and to issue development permits.
(d)
Inspection. To inspect land developments and subdivisions. No person shall refuse entry or access to the Zoning Administrator upon request to enter onto property for purposes of inspection, upon the presentation of appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with the Zoning Administrator while in the process of carrying out his or her official duties.
(e)
Administration. To adopt schedules of dates, times and places as appropriate and necessary for the processing of applications established by this ordinance, and to prepare administrative procedures, guidelines, application forms, to tend to other administrative details not inconsistent with the provisions of this ordinance, and to implement the provisions of this zoning ordinance.
(f)
Interpretation. To interpret the provisions of this ordinance.
(g)
Enforcement. To enforce the provisions of this ordinance.
Sec. 402. - Delegation of Authority to City Engineer.
The Mayor and City Council of Flowery Branch hereby delegates to the City Engineer the following powers and duties:
(a)
Preliminary plats. To review and make recommendations to the Governing Body regarding preliminary plats.
(b)
Final plats. To approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the improvements shown on final plats, provided, however, such delegation does not authorize the City Engineer to accept public improvements for the Mayor and City Council of Flowery Branch.
(c)
Development plans. To approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the improvements shown on development plans.
(d)
Inspection. To inspect land developments and subdivisions. No person shall refuse entry or access to the City Engineer upon request to enter onto property for purposes of inspection, upon the presentation of appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with the City Engineer while in the process of carrying out his or her official duties.
(e)
Technical standards for improvements. The City Engineer is authorized to promulgate additional technical standards and construction specifications for land development improvements not already specified by this Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance or the Flowery Branch Zoning Ordinance, including but not limited to streets, storm drainage systems, driveways, curb cuts, and parking lots.
(f)
Technical standards for utilities. The City Engineer is authorized to promulgate additional technical standards and construction specifications for utility improvements not already specified by this Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance or the Flowery Branch Zoning Ordinance, including but not limited to stormwater, water and sanitary sewer systems and utilities.
Sec. 403. - Jurisdiction.
This Ordinance shall apply to all unincorporated lands within the city limits of Flowery Branch, Georgia.
Sec. 404. - Land is One Tract Until Subdivided.
Until property proposed for subdivision has received final plat approval and been properly recorded, the land involving the subdivision shall be considered as one tract, except land may be considered as multiple tracts if legally recorded as such before the effective date of this Ordinance.
Sec. 405. - Subdivision of Land.
No person shall subdivide land except in conformance with this Ordinance. It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person to sell, transfer, agree to sell, offer at public auction, negotiate to sell or subdivide any land until a preliminary plat, if required, and the final plat have been approved and the final plat recorded in accordance with this Ordinance. Said restriction applies to lands subdivided for non-residential as well as residential uses. The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transfer shall not exempt the transaction from this Ordinance or from the penalties established herein. The County, through its attorney or other official designated by the Mayor and City Council of Flowery Branch, may enjoin such transfer of, sale, or agreement by appropriate action.
Sec. 406. - Development of Land.
No person shall disturb or develop land or engage in development except in accordance with this Ordinance. It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person to disturb or develop any land until a development permit has been secured, if required by this ordinance or the Flowery Branch Zoning Ordinance, and a development plan, if required, has been approved by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with this Ordinance. No person shall begin construction of any improvement on any lot prior to the approval of a preliminary plat, if required by this Ordinance, nor prior to approval of a development permit and/or development plan for said improvement as required by this Ordinance and the Flowery Branch Zoning Ordinance
The Zoning Administrator shall not authorize or permit the clearance of trees and vegetative materials, except for grubbing, outside approved construction limits, unless a development permit has been applied for and has been approved in accordance with this Ordinance, unless specifically exempted by this Ordinance.
Sec. 407. - Building and Other Permits.
No person shall construct or participate in the construction of any building or other structure or engage in any excavation, grading, or land disturbing activity on any parcel of land regulated by this Ordinance unless a development permit authorizing such activity has been issued in accordance with the provisions and procedures of this Ordinance and the Flowery Branch Zoning Ordinance, as applicable.
Sec. 408. - Public Roads and Lands.
No land dedicated as a public road or other public purpose shall be opened, extended or accepted as a public road or for any other purpose unless such dedication is constructed in accordance with the specifications and procedures of this Ordinance and accepted by the Mayor and City Council of Flowery Branch.
Sec. 409. - Preliminary Plat, Development Plans and Development Permit Required.
No person shall begin development, land-disturbing activity, or construction of any improvement on any lot or land except in compliance with this Ordinance. No development permit shall be issued for land disturbing activity or the installation of improvements prior to the approval of a preliminary plat of such land, if required, and the approval of a development permit, nor prior to approval by the Zoning Administrator of plans for land disturbance and installation of improvements.
Sec. 410. - Recording of Subdivision Plats and Transfer of Land.
No subdivision plat, nor any part thereof, shall be recorded with the Clerk of Superior Court of Hall County unless the Zoning Administrator has approved such plat for recording. The Clerk of the Superior Court of Hall County shall not record a plat of a subdivision, whether evidenced as a plat or as an attachment to a deed, unless such plat is a final plat approved by the Zoning Administrator and contains the Zoning Administrator's signature thereon.
Any deed or other instrument of conveyance, including a security deed, bond for title, or any other document purporting to convey, then or in the future, title to real estate, filed for record with the Clerk of the Superior Court, wherein the property to be conveyed is described in some manner other than by reference to a recorded plat, shall be accompanied by a certificate signed by the party filing such deed or other instrument, which certificate shall be in the following form:
EXPAND
I, ________, do hereby certify that the instrument herewith filed for record in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Hall County, Georgia, does not involve the subdivision of property and does not subdivide a tract of land into two or more tracts or lots.
This ___ day of ________, 20___.
___________ (Signature)
  Sec. 411. - Exemption from Plat Approval.
The following types of land subdivision, transfer, and sale are specifically exempted from the plat approval requirements of this Ordinance; provided, however, that such exemptions shall not apply to land development requirements and improvement requirements of this Ordinance:
(a)
The creation and sale of cemetery plots.
(b)
The sale of lots consistent with previously approved and recorded plats or deeds.
(c)
The creation of leaseholds for space within a multiple-occupancy building or the division of property into leaseholds for commercial, industrial, or institutional use.
(d)
The creation of leaseholds for the agricultural use of property where the use does not involve the construction of a building to be used as a residence or for other purposes not directly related to agricultural use of the land or crops or livestock raised thereon.
(e)
Any division of land to heirs through a judicial estate proceeding, or any division of land pursuant to a judicial partition, or any division of land occurring from the foreclosure of a deed of trust; provided, however, that such exemption shall not require the City to approve development on such lots if the resulting lots or parcels fail to meet any applicable City regulations regarding lot size, lot width, and other dimensional requirements.
Sec. 412. - Exemption from Development Permit.
Any development or activity that is exempt from the City's Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Ordinance shall be similarly exempt from the development permit requirements of this Ordinance.
Any development or activity that is exempt from the City's development permit requirements of the City of Flowery Branch Zoning Ordinance shall be similarly exempt from the development permit requirements of this Ordinance.
Sec. 413. - Burial of Materials.
No person shall bury, or cause or permit any person to bury, any trash, garbage, refuse, glass, cans, tires, appliances or other similar man-made objects materials on any property under subdivision or development, except within the limits of approved landfills or other sites specifically approved for such purpose(s).
No person shall bury, or cause or permit any person to bury, any tree stumps, limbs, and similar natural materials on any property under subdivision or development, except that the Zoning Administrator may permit the burial of such natural materials on property under subdivision or development, if the site for burial of natural materials is specifically designated on the preliminary and final plat for the subdivision, if applicable, and on plans for the development, and a deed restriction is placed on the lot or development prohibiting the construction or development of a building, structure, or parking area on said burial site.
