ARTICLE R. - BOARDING OF DOORS AND WINDOWS

Sec. 8-2-200. - Boarding-up structures.
(a)
Boarding-up permit. No person, firm, association, or corporation shall erect, install, place, or maintain boards over the doors, windows or other opening of any building or structure or otherwise secure such opening by a means other than the conventional method used in the original construction and design of the building or structure without first obtaining a valid boarding-up permit in accordance with this subsection. Any unpermitted properties with boards existing at the time of the adoption of this subsection will have thirty (30) days from the date of the adoption of this subsection to submit an application to the department of planning and zoning for a permit to continue to board. Any properties with existing permits under this article shall be allowed to obtain a renewal under subsection (c) hereunder.
(b)
The department may issue a boarding-up permit only upon satisfaction of the following conditions:
(1)
Submission of a written application by the owner of the property or authorized representative, including the following information:
a.
Name, address, and telephone number of the owner;
b.
Name, address, and telephone number of any local agent of the owner;
c.
Tax parcel identification number of the premises on which the structure is situated;
d.
Common address of the structure;
e.
Other information as may be required by the department.
(2)
Payment of the required fee by the owner of the property or his/her authorized representative. The initial fee shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). The fee for any renewal shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(3)
Submission of a written statement or plan by the owner of the property or authorized representative specifying:
a.
Proposed plan to repair the structure, including a detailed description regarding the manner and materials.
b.
Proposed maintenance plan detailing the monitoring and maintenance of the structure and premises in conformance with this article.
c.
An acknowledgment that if such repairs are not made prior to the expiration of any permit hereunder, the owner shall face a penalty of not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation.
(4)
The city may conduct an inspection of the subject property to ensure that the structure is boarded up in accordance with the plan approved by the department.
(c)
A boarding-up permit issued pursuant to this subsection shall authorize the boarding-up or other securing of a building or structure for a period of sixty (60) days. An owner of a property desiring to continue to board his property beyond the sixty-day term must submit one (1) renewal application to renew the boarding-up permit and continue to meet the requirements for the issuance of a new boarding-up permit. The permit may be renewed once for a period not more than thirty (30) additional days within five (5) days of the expiration of the original upon payment of necessary fees. The fee for such renewal shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(d)
No boarding-up permit shall be required to board-up a building for up to ten (10) days in the event of a temporary emergency situation, including but not limited to damage caused by vandalism, theft, or weather. In the event an emergency situation requires a building or structure to be boarded-up for more than ten (10) days, the owner of the building or structure or his authorized representative must obtain a valid building permit for repair or a valid boarding-up permit in accordance with this section.
(e)
The boarding of doors, windows, or other openings of any building or structure or any means of securing such openings, other than by the conventional method used in the original construction and design of the building or structure, shall be according to the specifications approved under the permit. All boarded openings shall be painted with a minimum of two (2) coats of exterior paint, which is of a color compatible with the exterior color of the building or structure.
(f)
Any structure which is boarded shall be in compliance with all applicable codes and ordinances of City of Forest Park.
(g)
Any structure which is boarded up shall be posted with the name, permit information, and twenty-four-hour contact phone number of the local agent.
(h)
The penalty for any violation of this Article shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation. Each day that a violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
( Ord. No. 20-05, § 1 (Exh. A), 2-17-2020 ; Ord. No. 22-13 , § 1(Exh. A), 8-15-2022)
Secs. 8-2-201—8-2-299. - Reserved.
