CHAPTER 2. - AD VALOREM TAXES

Sec. 3-2-1. - Ad valorem taxation to be levied and collected.
As described in the city charter, there shall be levied and collected an annual ad valorem tax upon all property in the city subject to municipal taxation under the law of the State of Georgia.
(Code 1959, § 19-1)
Sec. 3-2-2. - Assessment of property for the purpose of ad valorem taxation; owner-occupied tax exemption; exemption for disabled residents; and exemption for persons above the age of 65 years.
(a)
The city hereby declares that it elects to use the same assessments as are used by Clayton County, Georgia, for the purpose of taxing real property in the City of Forest Park, Georgia, as provided by the law of the State of Georgia. By the enactment of this section, the city manager is directed to procure from the county the assessment made by said county on real property located in the corporate limits.
(b)
Exemption for owner-occupied single family dwellings.
(1)
The city shall allow an exemption in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for purposes of determining the amount of ad valorem taxes to be paid on real property of a dwelling which is owned and occupied by the owner of said real property provided that said owner-occupier shall make application to the city as herein set forth.
(2)
In order to qualify for this tax exemption, the owner of said real property shall complete an application provided for by the city and file same with the tax clerk of the city. The form shall require the name of the owner of the real property, the name of the occupant of the real property, and the address of the real property.
(3)
The forms shall be filed when the initial exemption is claimed, and shall be automatically renewed by the city in each subsequent year for so long as the premises are occupied by the owner.
(c)
Special exemptions for disabled persons and persons above the age of 65 years.
(1)
The city shall allow an exemption in the amount of $4,000 for purposes of determining the amount of ad valorem taxes to be paid on real property of any person who owns said real property and provides the tax clerk with a letter from a licensed physician stating that said person is totally and permanently disabled for all purposes whatsoever. The city shall also allow an exemption in the amount of $4,000 for purposes of determining the amount of ad valorem taxes to be paid on real property of any person who owns said real property and provides the tax clerk with a copy of a birth certificate, valid Georgia driver's license, or other form of identification which is acceptable to the tax clerk of the city, which shows that person having attained the age of 65 years prior to January 1 of the next year for which ad valorem taxes will be assessed. However, no owner of real property within the city shall be entitled to claim more than one of the tax exemptions set forth in this code section.
(2)
The tax clerk shall make proper notation on the tax records in order to reflect such disability, or age.
(Code 1959, § 19-2, as amended by Ord. No. 82-266, 6/21/82; Ord. No. 86-008, 5/5/86)
Sec. 3-2-3. - Time for fixing tax rate.
The governing body shall, on or before the first regular meeting in July of each year, prescribe, fix, and levy an ad valorem rate of taxation against all the property returned and assessed as provided in this code of ordinances, the charter of the city and the law of the state.
Editor's note— The ad valorem tax rate is generally set at the second council meeting in June following adoption of the annual budget.
Sec. 3-2-4. - Date taxes due and payable; interest on delinquent taxes.
All ad valorem taxes due the city on all property in the city subject to taxation shall be due and payable annually. Any such tax not paid by December 20 shall be declared delinquent. Delinquent taxes shall accrue interest at the highest legal rate per annum authorized by state law from December 20 to the date payment is made.
All ad valorem tax payments shall be first applied to the oldest taxes due until all ad valorem taxes, past due and current, are fully paid.
(Ord. No. 08-02, § 1, 1-7-2008)
Editor's note— At the city's instruction Ord. No. 08-02, § 1, adopted Jan. 7, 2008 was placed in § 3-2-4.
State Law reference— Rate of interest (one percent (1%) per month) on past due taxes, O.C.G.A., § 48-2-40.
Sec. 3-2-5. - Executions for unpaid taxes; sales.
(a)
For any and all unpaid taxes during any year, executions shall be issued against the property and the owners thereof on or after December 20 of each year for the amount of taxes due, the interest thereon and such fee for the issuance of the execution as provided by law. Such execution shall be issued by the city clerk and bear teste in the name of the mayor and shall be levied by the chief of police or any other police officer of the city. Such execution shall bind all the property, real and personal, of the defendant; and the costs thereof shall be the same as on tax collector's executions by the laws of this state.
(b)
The execution shall be levied by the chief of police or any other police officer of the city, upon such property as in the discretion of the levying officer may be suitable or available for such purposes, and the same shall be advertised once a week for four (4) weeks next preceding the date of sale in the official organ of Clayton County or in a newspaper having general circulation in the city. Sales of such property shall be conducted on the first Tuesday of the month before the door of the city hall, or in the council chambers, between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., and the same shall be conducted by the chief of police, or any other police officer. All property shall be sold at public outcry to the highest bidder for cash. The proceeds arising from such sale shall first be applied to the payment of the taxes due, including the interest and costs and expenses of sale, and any surplus remaining shall be paid to the owner of such property, provided that the city may buy any property to be sold under and by virtue of such tax executions.
State Law reference— Time, place and manner of sale of property for taxes due municipality, O.C.G.A., § 48-5-359; tax executions, O.C.G.A., § 48-3-1 et seq.; tax sales, O.C.G.A., § 48-4-1 et seq.
Sec. 3-2-6. - Redemption of property by owner.
Any person having any right, title or interest in or lien upon any real property sold under or by virtue of an execution issued for the collection of taxes may redeem such property within one (1) year of the date of sale as provided by state law.
State Law reference— Redemption of property, O.C.G.A., § 48-4-40 et seq.
Sec. 3-2-7. - Register of sales.
The chief of police shall keep a register of all sales of real estate in a book provided by him for that purpose, in which he shall enter each tract, lot or parcel of land exposed to sale, the quantity sold, and the amount of taxes and costs for which the same was sold, and the purchaser's name, leaving at the end of each line three (3) columns in blank leaving a sufficient space to insert the name of the person who may redeem such tract, lot or parcel of land, the date of redemption, and the amount of redemption money paid, which book shall be kept in a neat and legible manner, and shall always be open for the inspection of any and all persons interested and who shall apply to the chief of police for an examination of the same.
(Code 1959, § 19-22)
Sec. 3-2-8. - Records to be kept by chief of police.
It shall be the duty of the chief of police of the city:
(1)
to keep a file of all newspapers in which his official advertisements appear;
(2)
to keep an execution docket in which he shall enter a full description of all executions levied by him on any kind of property, showing what property levied on, the date of levy, and the service of notice, together with all his acts and doings thereon;
(3)
to keep a book in which shall be entered a record of all sales made by him, describing the property and the process under which sold, the date of the levy and sale, the name of the purchaser, and the price;
(4)
to keep the book or books indexed for each entry thereon.
(Code 1959, § 19-23)
Sec. 3-2-9. - Designation of person to bid in property for city.
Any member of the governing body or upon their failure to do so, anyone designated by the chief of police, may act for the city in bidding the amount of tax and costs on property sold for tax by the chief of police, where no one else bids that amount, and see that the chief of police executes a deed for the city as required by law.
(Code 1959, § 19-24)
Sec. 3-2-10. - Property purchased by city at tax sales—Records.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the city tax office to keep a record of all property purchased by the city at the tax sales, showing whose property was so purchased, the amount bid for it by the party bidding from the city, and what portion of it was tax and what portion costs, respectively.
(b)
The tax office shall also file the deed to the city made by the chief of police, the execution under which the land was sold, attached, which shall be delivered to him by the chief of police, and a copy of the newspapers in which the sale at which the city purchased, was advertised.
Sec. 3-2-11. - Same—Custodian.
The city clerk, or his authorized representative, shall be the proper person for the chief of police to place in possession of all property purchased by the city at the tax sales or sales of any kind by the chief of police, and it shall be the duty of the city clerk to keep special watch over all such property and see that no person is allowed to trespass thereon. In case the property is improved, the city clerk shall rent out the same, collect the rents and return all amounts collected for rent into the city treasury, and he shall also keep a record of all amounts thus received for rent.
Sec. 3-2-12. - Same—Disposition.
(a)
Property purchased by the city at the tax sales for city taxes and which has been held by the city under deed made in pursuance of the sale for one (1) year, shall be sold and disposed of by the city as follows. The city clerk shall present to the governing body at any regular or called meeting thereof a full description list of all property so purchased by the city and which has been so held by the city for one (1) year.
(b)
The governing body may then by resolution, direct a sale of all or such portion of said property as in its judgment should be sold. Such direction being given, it shall be the duty of the chief of police to advertise such property and conduct such sale in accordance with the provisions of state law. The chief of police shall sell or have sold the property to the highest bidder for cash, and each piece of the property shall be sold separately.
State Law reference— Notice of foreclosure of right to redeem property, O.C.G.A., § 48-4-45 et seq.; judicial sales, O.C.G.A., § 9-13-140 et seq.
Sec. 3-2-13. - Same—Purchasers to receive quit claim deed.
Purchasers at such sale as provided in section 3-2-12 shall receive from the city a quit claim deed, to be executed by the mayor upon the payment of the purchase money to the city clerk or the chief of police. In case of failure to comply with the bids, the city shall have the same alternatives and remedies as prescribed by the laws of this state in cases of sheriff's sales.
(Code 1959, § 19-29)
Sec. 3-2-14. - Officer's performance authorized.
The chief of police is authorized to do and perform any and all things usual, necessary or expedient for the purpose of making sale of any and all property levied upon under such tax or other execution due the city.
(Code 1959, § 19-30)
Sec. 3-2-15. - Personalty sales, bill of sale.
The officer making tax sales shall execute to the purchaser in cases of sales of personalty a bill of sale to same in the usual manner of the execution of deeds and bills of sale by sheriffs under similar circumstances.
(Code 1959, § 19-31)
Sec. 3-2-16. - Same—Fi.fa. authorized.
Whenever any personal property has been levied upon by the chief of police, by virtue of any execution in favor of the city, the chief of police may, in his discretion, allow the defendant in fi.fa. to replevy the property under the same rules and conditions as prescribed for sheriffs and constables in this state, and the bonds thus taken shall be collectible in the same manner prescribed for the collection of forthcoming bonds taken by sheriffs and constables of this state, or the chief of police may receive money in pledge instead of the bond.
(Code 1959, § 19-32)
Sec. 3-2-17. - Perishable property or property expensive to keep, procedure after execution upon same.
Whenever the chief of police shall levy any execution in favor of the city upon perishable property, or property the keeping of which is attended with expense, upon application by the chief of police to the mayor, the mayor may order the same sold at public outcry in the same manner as prescribed for tax sales in this chapter, provided that the mayor shall grant no order for such sale unless the defendant has had at least one (1) day's notice of the application of the chief of police, provided defendant is in the city or can be found.
(Code 1959, § 19-33)
Sec. 3-2-18. - Waste transfer station special tax district.
(a)
Pursuant to Article IX, Section II, Paragraph VI of the 1983 Constitution of the State of Georgia, there is hereby established a special tax district within the City of Forest Park, Georgia to be known as the "waste transfer station special tax district." Said waste transfer station special tax district shall include and encompass all structures and related personal property that are not exempt from ad valorem taxation that are located on or within the parcel of real property identified by the Clayton County Tax Assessor's Office as Tax Parcel Identification Number 13079C A045, and bearing a street address of 327 Lamar Drive, Forest Park, Georgia, 30297. Said waste transfer station special tax district is further shown on the map entitled "waste transfer station special tax district" attached hereto as exhibit "A" and incorporated herein by reference. The Mayor and Council of the City of Forest Park, Georgia may amend said waste transfer station special tax district from time to time by ordinance or resolution.
(b)
Purpose. The waste transfer station special tax district is established for the purposes allowed under Georgia law. The tax is assessed against any owner of real property and personal property included within said special tax district.
(c)
The effective date of the creation of the waste transfer station special tax district shall be January 1, 2017. There is hereby assessed and levied upon all real and personal property in said special tax district a tax, the rate of which shall be determined annually by the City of Forest Park and adopted by resolution of the mayor and council thereof. Such assessment and levy shall commence with the ad valorem tax bill for all property within the waste transfer station special tax district for the 2017 tax year and continue for each succeeding tax year thereafter until and unless said special tax district is terminated by ordinance or resolution of the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 16-24, § 1, 12-5-2016)
Sec. 3-2-19. - Freeport exemptions.
(a)
All the following types of tangible personal property are exempted from ad valorem taxation by the City of Forest Park, as provided in subsection (b) of this section:
(1)
Stock in trade of a fulfillment center which, on January 1, are stored in a fulfillment center and which are made available to remote purchasers who may make such purchases by electronic, Internet, telephonic, or other remote means, and where such stock in trade of a fulfillment center will be shipped from the fulfillment center and delivered to the purchaser at a location other than the location of the fulfillment center, as permitted by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-48.2.
(b)
All types of tangible personal property as stated in subsection (a) of this section shall be exempted at one hundred (100) percent of the value of such property.
(c)
Taxpayers desiring to make application for this exemption must do so on forms provided for this purpose by the city and/or Clayton County, as applicable, and must supply any additional information that may be requested which is necessary to determine the qualification for and amount of said exemption.
(d)
All terms undefined herein shall have the meanings set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-48.2.
(Ord. No. 20-15 , Exh. C, 6-15-2020)
