CHAPTER 1. - PURCHASES AND CONTRACTS
ARTICLE A. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 3-1-1. - Purchasing agent; city manager.
The city manager shall be the purchasing agent for the city.
(Code 1959, § 2-47)
Sec. 3-1-2. - Same—Duties.
The purchasing agent shall have the power and it shall be his duty to purchase or contract for the purchase of all supplies and contractual services needed by any agency of the city, except as otherwise provided by law, or the governing body. The purchasing agent shall act to procure for the city the highest quality of supplies and contractual services at the least expense to the city, discourage uniform bidding and endeavor to obtain as full and open competition as possible on all purchases and sales, keep informed of current developments in the field of purchasing by other governmental jurisdictions, prescribe and maintain such forms as he shall find reasonably necessary to the operation of this article, exploit the possibilities of buying in bulk so as to take full advantage of discounts, and act so as to procure for the city all federal tax exemptions to which it is entitled. The purchasing agent shall have the authority to declare vendors who default on their quotations irresponsible bidders and to disqualify them from receiving any business from the city for a stated period of time.
(Code 1959, § 2-48)
Sec. 3-1-3. - Unauthorized purchases.
Except as herein otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful for any city officer or officers to order the purchase of any supplies or make any contract within the purview of this article unless the provisions of this article are complied with, and any purchase ordered or contract made contrary to the provisions hereof shall not be approved by the city, and the city shall not be bound thereby.
(Code 1959, § 2-49)
Sec. 3-1-4. - Requisitions and estimates.
All departments of the city, either by or with the authorization of the department head thereof, shall file with the purchasing agent detailed requisitions or estimates of their requirements in supplies and contractual services in such manner, at such times, and for such future periods as the purchasing agent may prescribe.
(Code 1959, § 2-50)
Sec. 3-1-5. - Revisory power.
The purchasing agent, or his designated representative, shall examine each requisition or estimate and shall have the authority to revise it as to quantity, quality, or estimated cost.
Sec. 3-1-6. - Encumbrance of funds.
(a)
Except in cases of emergency, the purchasing agent shall not issue any order for delivery on a contract or any market purchases until he has determined, after preaudit, that there is to the credit of the using department concerned a sufficient unencumbered appropriation balance, in excess of all unpaid obligations, to defray the amount of such order.
(b)
Nothing in this section shall prevent the purchasing agent from issuing an order for the purchase of any goods or services where funds to cover such purchase are not immediately available, provided that the provisions of subsection (a) concerning determination of sufficient unencumbered balance have been complied with and the means of defraying the amount of such order are available.
Sec. 3-1-7. - Discounted or competitive prices.
The city manager is hereby directed and authorized to engage in purchasing goods and materials needed by the city from any person, firm, partnership, or corporation who will make said goods and materials available to the city at a price which is discounted or competitive with prices being charged on the open market. Subject to the preference for local bidders prescribed by section 3-1-18, the city manager is further directed to obtain all goods and materials purchased on behalf of the city and for use by the city at the lowest price obtainable, provided, however, that said goods shall be of similar or approved quality for like merchandise available for sale throughout the city.
(Ord. No. 91-010, § 1, 5-20-91)
Sec. 3-1-8. - Competitive bids favored.
All purchases of, and contracts for supplies and contractual services, and all sales of personal property which has become obsolete and unusable shall, except as otherwise provided herein, be based wherever possible on competitive bids.
(Code 1959, § 2-54)
Sec. 3-1-9. - Formal contract procedure; maximum without bids.
(a)
Generally. Subject to the local preference provided by section 3-1-18, all items, equipment, services and supplies, except as otherwise herein provided, when the cost thereof shall exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), shall be purchased by formal, written contract from the lowest responsible bidder, after due notice inviting proposals.
(b)
Other limitations and procedures. The limitations and requirements contained in subsection (a) of this section shall not be applied to the purchase of the following goods and services:
(1)
Professional services. Professional services such as medical, architectural, legal, etc., may be contracted by negotiation, upon approval of the governing body;
(2)
Sole source. All items, equipment, services and supplies for which there is only a sole source may be contracted by negotiation, upon approval of the governing body;
(3)
State contract. Any item which may be purchased pursuant to a state contract for purchase of goods and materials, upon approval of the governing body;
(4)
Market conditions. Any item, the cost of which does not exceed thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00), which due to its scarcity or other unusual market conditions, either temporary or permanent, is unavailable for purchase on the market if the requirements of subsection (a) are complied with, upon approval of the mayor, or in his absence, the mayor pro tem; and,
(5)
Noncompetitive negotiation. When as determined by the mayor and council prior to an award, the needs of the city cannot be met by the other methods of procedure outlined herein, a contract may be made by noncompetitive negotiation.
(Ord. No. 91-010, § 2, 5-20-91; Ord. No. 96-014, 10-7-96; Ord. No. 98-012, § 1, 7-20-98; Ord. No. 98-014, § 1, 9-21-98)
Sec. 3-1-10. - Notice inviting bids.
Notice inviting bids shall be published once in the official newspaper of the city and at least four (4) days preceding the last day set for the receipt of proposals.
(Code 1959, § 2-56)
Sec. 3-1-11. - Scope of notice.
The newspaper notice required herein shall include a general description of the articles to be purchased or sold, shall state where bid blanks and specifications may be secured, and the time and place for opening bids.
(Code 1959, § 2-57)
Sec. 3-1-12. - Bidder's list.
The purchasing agent may also solicit bids from all responsible prospective suppliers by sending them a copy of such notice as will acquaint them with the proposed purchase or sale.
(Code 1959, § 2-58)
Sec. 3-1-13. - Notice on bulletin board in city hall.
The purchasing agent may also advertise all pending purchases or sales by a notice posted on a public bulletin board in the city hall.
(Code 1959, § 2-59)
Sec. 3-1-14. - Bid deposits.
When deemed necessary by the purchasing agent, bid deposits shall be prescribed in the public notice inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders shall be entitled to return of any deposit and/or release of any surety where the agent has required such. A successful bidder shall forfeit any deposits and/or require performance of the surety required by the purchasing agent upon failure on his part to enter a contract within fourteen (14) days after the award, or such other time as may be designated by the purchasing agent.
Sec. 3-1-15. - Bid opening procedure.
Bids shall be submitted sealed to the purchasing agent and shall be identified as bids on the envelope. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated in the public notices. A tabulation of all bids received shall be posted for public inspection, and a copy furnished to the governing body.
(Code 1959, § 2-61)
Sec. 3-1-16. - Rejection of bids.
The purchasing agent shall have the authority to reject all bids, parts of all bids, or all-bids for one (1) or more supplies or contractual services included in the proposed contract, when the public interest will be served thereby.
(Code 1959, § 2-62)
Sec. 3-1-17. - Lowest responsible bidder.
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder. In determining "lowest responsible bidder," in addition to price, the purchasing agent shall consider:
(1)
The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the contract or provide the service required;
(2)
Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
(3)
The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and efficiency of the bidder;
(4)
The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
(5)
The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and ordinances relating to the contract or service;
(6)
The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
(7)
The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies, or contractual services to the particular use required;
(8)
The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service for the use of the subject of the contract; and
(9)
The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
(Code 1959, § 2-63)
Sec. 3-1-18. - Award to other than low bidder.
Business[es] which maintain a permanent location within the city and secure an annual business license from the city are designated as "local businesses." A purchasing preference is established in favor of local businesses. In the event a bid is received from a local business which is no more than five (5) percent higher than the low bid, such local business shall be considered the lowest bidder for purposes of this chapter. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, no award shall be given to any bidder other than the lowest bidder without the consent and approval of the governing body.
(Ord. No. 91-010, § 3, 5-20-91)
Sec. 3-1-19. - Tie bids.
If all bids received are for the same total amount or unit price, quality and service being equal, and after adjustment for local preference as provided in section 3-1-18, the contract shall be awarded to a local bidder. Where no local bidder is involved, the purchasing agent shall award the contract to one of the tie bidders by drawing lots in public.
(Ord. No. 91-010, § 4, 5-20-91)
Sec. 3-1-20. - Subdividing contracts.
No contract or purchase shall be subdivided to avoid the requirements of this article.
(Code 1959, § 2-66)
Sec. 3-1-21. - Sale of city property.
(a)
When the governing body shall determine that it is in the best interest of the city to sell or otherwise dispose of any property belonging to the city, not needed for public use or that may have become unsuited for public use, it shall be the duty of the governing body to declare such facts, and to list or describe the property. All real property to be sold, and all personal property, the estimated resale value of which shall exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), shall be sold at public auction or by formal written contract to the highest responsible bidder, after reasonable notice inviting proposals.
(b)
Surplus property of the city with an estimated resale value of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or less may be sold at the discretion of the purchasing agent by negotiated sale without advertisement and the acceptance of bids.
State Law reference— Sale of municipal property, O.C.G.A., § 36-37-6.
Secs. 3-1-22—3-1-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE B. - IMPROVEMENT CONTRACTS

Sec. 3-1-31. - When required.
All public improvement projects costing in the aggregate of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or more should be completed and performed under and by virtue of a written contract by and between the city and the performing party and which contract shall be drawn, prepared and executed in accordance with ordinances and resolutions in effect in the city.
Sec. 3-1-32. - Procedure for awarding.
Whenever the governing body deems it necessary or desirable to undertake any public works or other public improvements costing in the aggregate twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) or more, they shall by motion declare such work or improvements necessary. Such motion shall state the type of work or improvement to be done, as well as define the extent and character of the same. Upon the adoption of such motion, it shall be the duty of the director of public works or an engineering firm designated by the governing body to proceed to prepare an estimate of the cost of such proposed improvements, as well as all plans and specifications as may be necessary. Said plans, specifications and cost estimates shall thereupon be delivered to the governing body, who, after examining the same, shall determine whether to proceed with the improvements.
(Ord. No. 96-014, 10-7-96)
Sec. 3-1-33. - Resolution; advertisement for bids.
Should the governing body determine, after studying the estimate furnished by the director of public works or the engineering firm, to proceed with the improvements, they shall pass a motion setting forth said facts. The motion shall set forth such terms and conditions as they shall deem proper or necessary with reference to the letting of the contract and the provisions thereof. Such motion shall also direct the city manager to advertise for sealed proposals for furnishing the materials and performing the work necessary in making such improvements. The notice for such proposals shall be published once a week for two (2) weeks prior to the date set for opening bids. The city manager may also solicit bids from any responsible parties by sending a copy of such notice that will acquaint them with the proposed improvements.
Sec. 3-1-34. - Bid deposits.
The city shall require a bid deposit of at least five (5) percent on proposed improvement contracts with the city. All unsuccessful bidders shall be entitled to return of any deposit and/or release of any surety. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit and/or penalty imposed against a surety on said contract upon failure of the contracting party with the city to enter a contract within fourteen (14) days after the award to said party, or such other time as the city manager shall direct.
Sec. 3-1-35. - Bid opening procedure.
All bids on proposed improvement contracts with the city shall be submitted sealed to the city manager and shall be identified as bids on the envelope. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated in the public notices. A tabulation of all bids received shall be posted for public inspection, and a copy furnished to the governing body.
(Code 1959, § 2-72)
Sec. 3-1-36. - Rejection of bids.
The city shall reserve the right to reject all bids or parts of all bids, when the public interest will be served thereby, and shall have the further right to waive all technicalities.
(Code 1959, § 2-73)
Sec. 3-1-37. - Lowest responsible bidder.
Contracts for municipal improvements shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder. In determining the "lowest responsible bidder," in addition to price, the city manager shall be governed by the provisions of section 3-1-17.
(Code 1959, § 2-74)
Sec. 3-1-38. - Award to other than low bidder.
No award for a contract for municipal improvements shall be given to other than the lowest bidder without the express consent of the governing body.
(Code 1959, § 2-75)
Sec. 3-1-39. - Tie bids.
If all low bids received are for the same amount or unit price, all other things being equal, the contract shall be awarded to a local bidder. Where no local bidders are involved, the city manager shall award the contract for municipal improvements to one of the tie bidders by drawing lots in public.
(Code 1959, § 2-76)
Sec. 3-1-40. - Professional engineer for certain work.
In all public works costing twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) or more, the plans and specifications and estimates of cost shall be prepared by, and the construction executed under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer, when expertise is not available in the city.
(Ord. No. 96-04, 10-7-96)
Sec. 3-1-41. - Bond of contractor.
No contract for any public works or improvements, costing more than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), shall become valid until the contract therefor shall have been duly executed and the contractor shall have executed and delivered to the city good and sufficient surety bond conditioned for the faithful performance and completion of such contract and said bond shall have been approved by the city attorney.
(Ord. No. 96-014, 10-7-96)
State Law reference— Bonds required of contractors for public works in excess of $5,000, O.C.G.A., § 36-82-101 et seq.
Sec. 3-1-42. - Contracts for less than $25,000.
All public works contracts costing less than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) shall be awarded in such manner as shall be directed by the governing body.
(Ord. No. 96-014, 10-7-96)
Sec. 3-1-43. - Cooperative ventures for water and sewer line installation.
(a)
Nothing contained in section 3-1-31 through section 3-1-42 shall prevent the city from entering into agreements with property owners or developers for joint participation in the costs of installation of water mains and sanitary sewers, when such agreements are in the best interests of the city.
(b)
When such ventures are contemplated, it shall be the responsibility of the department head under whose jurisdiction the work is to be done to fully inform the city manager in writing of the details of the proposal together with the estimated costs to the city. The city manager, together with the director of public works or engineering firm designated by the city, shall review the proposal in detail and submit the matter together with their recommendations to the governing body for approval or rejection.
(c)
In all instances where city participation as to the furnishing of labor or materials is contemplated as outlined above, any contracts for the installation of water mains and sanitary sewers shall be between the property owner or developer and the contractor who actually performs the work. This section is intended merely to allow city participation where feasible in furnishing labor or materials without the necessity of advertising for bids and entering into a contract.
Sec. 3-1-44. - Emergency public works contracts costing less than $100,000.00.
(a)
All public works or public improvement contracts necessitated by an emergency that can be performed at a cost of less than one hundred thousand ($100,000.00) shall not be required to comply with the competitive bid award requirements and instead shall be awarded in such manner as shall be directed by the governing body.
(b)
The nature of the emergency shall be described in the minutes of the city council.
(c)
The public works or public improvement project shall not be subdivided in an effort to evade the competitive bid award requirements.
(Ord. No. 01-02, § 1, 3-19-2001)
