ARTICLE II. - WATER DISTRIBUTION STANDARDS

Sec. 82-31. - Purpose and scope.
(a)
The purpose of this article is to provide protection to the citizens of the county by ensuring that water distribution systems are adequate for fire protection, are sanitary, and are of sufficient size and quality to receive public water service as such becomes available. It is necessary to ensure that distribution systems are sufficient to become part of a wider distribution network than that existing at the time of installation. It is also necessary to consider water pressure variations resulting from elevation differentials within the county, the need to minimize water losses, and the need to minimize maintenance costs.
(b)
This article shall apply to each and every water line installed below ground level in the unincorporated area of the county; provided, however, this article shall not apply to a water line installed by the owner of real property on his own property from a water source and serving not more than three dwelling units, or serving not more than two commercial or business establishments, or serving agricultural activities; and provided, further, that this exception shall not be available in any case where any portion of the water line is to be laid linearly within a public right-of-way, or a right-of-way required to be dedicated to the county under any ordinance, resolution, or other regulation.
(c)
This article is passed with the specific knowledge that it contains standards more stringent than underground system installation standards present in the plumbing code now in effect. It is specifically the intention of this article to impose such more stringent standards, and subsequent amendments to plumbing codes now in effect, or adoption of other plumbing codes, shall in no way modify the standards of this article unless specifically stated in any such codes adopted in this article.
(Ord. No. 13, ch. 2, 8-22-1983)
Sec. 82-32. - Definitions.
Unless otherwise defined in this article, words used in this article shall be defined as set forth in the Unified Development Code, appendix A to this Code, as now exists or as it may be hereafter amended.
(Ord. No. 13, ch. 3, 8-22-1983)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 82-33. - Line size.
No water line shall be installed which measures less than six inches, inside diameter.
(Ord. No. 13, ch. 4, 8-22-1983)
Sec. 82-34. - Fire hydrants.
No water line shall be installed without incorporating therein fire hydrants of a type and manufacturer approved by the county water and sewerage authority. Such hydrants shall be installed not more than 1,000 feet apart as measured along the line installed. The first hydrant shall be installed within 500 feet of an existing hydrant measured by line-of-sight distance if the new installation branches from an existing water line. The first hydrant shall be installed within 1,000 feet of an existing hydrant measured linearly along the existing and installed line if the new installation constitutes a continuation of the existing line. If neither of those conditions exist, then the first hydrant shall be installed not more than 100 feet from the point at which the water will enter the new installation. Should the county water and sewerage authority fail to maintain a list of approved types and manufacturers of fire hydrants, then and in that event the type and manufacturer of the hydrant proposed for installation shall be approved by the board of commissioners prior to installation.
(Ord. No. 13, ch. 5, 8-22-1983)
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, ch. 38.
Sec. 82-35. - Water pipe standards.
Polyvinyl chloride (PVC), Class 150 (DR18-C900, AWWA) (Thick Wall) pressure pipe or ductile iron pipe may be utilized for the installation of water lines in this county so long as the installation plans have been approved in advance in writing by the county public works director and any subdivision plat or other plat shall have been approved by the planning and community development director prior to any installation of water line pipe.
(Ord. No. 13, ch. 6, 8-22-1983; Ord. No. 13B, § 1, 4-14-1986; Amd. of 12-1-2011)
Sec. 82-36. - Specific standards for polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pressure pipe.
(a)
The term "water authority" as used in this section shall be defined as the public works director. PVC water line installations shall conform to the following specific standards:
(1)
Generally.
a.
Scope. The scope of this section includes regulation of all labor, equipment, and materials required to install and test polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pressure pipe, using iron bodied valves and cast iron fittings or ductile iron fittings made to cast iron dimensions and accessories as specified in this section.
b.
Quality assurance.
1.
The contractor/developer, upon request, shall furnish a certificate from the manufacturer of the pipe and accessories that such manufacturer is fully competent and capable of manufacturing PVC pipe and accessories of uniform texture and strength which will fully comply with these specifications and has so manufactured this class of pipe in sufficient quantities to be certain that it will meet all normal field conditions of usage. The manufacturer must have adequate equipment and quality control facilities to be sure that each extrusion of pipe is uniform in texture, dimensions, and strength.
2.
Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe shall conform to all requirements of ASTM standards for PVC pipe and be pressure rated for Class 150 (DR 18) or 200 (DR 14) complying with AWWA C900 - (latest revision) for both barrel and bell dimensions. Pipe shall bear the National Sanitation Foundation seal of approval and will comply with the requirements for Type 1, Grade 1 of the ASTM resin specification D-1784 (latest revision). Certificates of conformance with the foregoing specifications shall be furnished with each lot of pipe supplied. Joints shall be push-on type for pipe and mechanical joints for fittings. Details of the joint design shall be in accordance with the manufacturer's standard practice such as "Ring-Tite" joints as manufactured by Johns-Manvill or other approved equal.
3.
Each length of pipe and each fitting shall have the following data clearly marked on each piece:
i.
Nominal size.
ii.
Type and grade of material and ASTM standard.
iii.
SDR (DR), class, or schedule rating.
iv.
Manufacturer.
v.
National Sanitation Foundation's seal of approval.
vi.
AWWA Standard.
c.
Storage and protection.
1.
PVC pipe and accessories shall be stored under cover.
2.
PVC pipe and accessories shall be stored aboveground and fully supported so as not to bend or deflect under its own weight.
(b)
Products.
(1)
PVC pipe and fittings.
a.
The pipe and accessories shall be homogenous throughout and free from visible cracks, holes, foreign inclusions, or other injurious defects. The pipe shall be as uniform as commercially practical in color, opacity, density, and other physical properties.
b.
No single piece of pipe shall be laid on any project covered by this specification unless it is found to be straight as prescribed in this section. Such pipe shall have a maximum ordinate as measured from the concave side of the pipe not to exceed one-sixteenth inch per foot of length. If the deviation from straightness exceeds this requirement, then the particular piece of pipe shall be rejected for use until it can comply with this subsection.
c.
Wyes, tees, bends, and any other fittings shall be of ductile iron as prescribed elsewhere in this article. All fittings and accessory items shall be provided by the contractor/developer as part of the line work.
(2)
Pipe. PVC pipe to be installed shall have push-on type joints and shall conform to the requirements of AWWA C900 pipes with working pressure rating of 150 or 200 psi as set forth in section 82-35.
(3)
Joints; push-on joints.
a.
The joints shall be designed so that the pipe and fittings may be connected on the job without the use of solvent cement or any special equipment. The push-on joint shall be single rubber gasket joint designed to be assembled by the positioning of a continuous, molded, rubber ring gasket in an annular recess in the pipe socket and entering the pipe into the socket thereby compressing the gasket radially to the pipe to form a positive seal. The gasket and the annular recess shall be so designed and shaped that the gasket is locked in place against displacement as the joint is assembled. Details of the joint design and assembly shall be in accordance with the joint manufacturer's standard practice. The joints shall be designed so as to provide for the thermal expansion or contraction experienced with a total temperature change of at least 75 degrees Fahrenheit in each joint per length of pipe without failure.
b.
Lubricant furnished for lubricating joints shall be nontoxic, shall not support the growth of bacteria, shall have no deteriorating effects on the gasket or pipe material, and shall not impart color, taste, or odor to water. The lubricant containers shall be labeled with the manufacturer's name.
c.
Gaskets shall meet all applicable requirements of ASTM D3139. Gasket dimensions shall be in accordance with the manufacturer's standard design dimensions and tolerances. The gasket shall be of such size and shape as to provide an adequate compressive force against the spigot and socket after assembly to effect a positive seal under all combinations of joint and gasket tolerance. The trade name or trademark, size, mold number, gasket manufacturer's mark and year of manufacture shall be molded in the rubber on the back of the gaskets.
d.
Gaskets shall be vulcanized natural or vulcanized synthetic rubber. No reclaimed rubber shall be used. When two hardnesses of rubber are included in a gasket, the soft and hard portions shall be integrally molded and joined in a strong vulcanized bond. They shall be free of porous areas, foreign material, and visible defects.
e.
The gasket manufacturer shall set up such quality control procedures as will ensure the gasket's meeting the requirements of this standard. He shall furnish a monthly report of representative quality control test results to the pipe manufacturer.
(c)
Execution.
(1)
Laying of pipe.
a.
Pipe shall at all times be handled with care to avoid damage. Whether moved by hand, skidways or hoists, material shall not be dropped or bumped. The interior of all pipe shall be kept free from dirt and foreign material at the site of the work, and each piece shall be unloaded opposite or near the place where it is to be laid in the trench.
b.
The contractor/developer shall be responsible for all material furnished by him. All material which is defective in manufacture or has been damaged in transit or after delivery shall be removed from the job site and replaced.
c.
Pipe shall be handled in such manner as to avoid damage to the ends. Pipe damaged at such points which cannot be repaired to the inspector's satisfaction shall be replaced at the contractor's/developer's expense.
d.
All pipe shall be laid and maintained to the required lines and grades. Fittings, valves and hydrants shall be at the required locations with joints centered, spigots home, and all valve and hydrant stems plumb. No deviation shall be made from the required line or grade except by written consent of the inspector.
e.
Temporary support, adequate protection and maintenance of all underground and surface utility structures, drains, sewers and other structures encountered in the progress of the work shall be furnished by the contractor. Where the grade or alignment of the pipe is obstructed by existing utility structures such as conduits, ducts, pipes, branch connections to main sewers, or main drains, the obstruction shall be permanently supported, relocated, removed or reconstructed by the contractor in cooperation with the owners of such utility structures. Whenever necessary to determine the location of existing underground utility structures, the contractor/developer, after an examination of available records, shall make all explorations and excavations for such purpose as may be directed by the water authority.
f.
The trench shall be dug to the required alignment and depth shown on the drawings and only so far in advance of pipe laying as necessary. The trench shall be braced and drained when necessary.
g.
Ledge rock, boulders and large stones shall be removed to provide clearance to each side of, and below, all pipe and accessories a minimum of six inches. Excavations below subgrade in rock or in boulders shall be refilled to subgrade with suitable material and thoroughly compacted. Blasting for excavation will be permitted only after securing approval of the county engineer and only when proper precautions are taken for the protection of persons and property. The hours of blasting shall be fixed by the inspector. Any damage caused by blasting shall be repaired by the contractor/developer at his expense. The procedures and methods of blasting shall conform to state and local laws and to county ordinances.
h.
Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe shall be embedded in accordance with the requirements of this subsection (c)(1) and at the depths set forth in this subsection (c)(1). The pipe shall be installed in the trench completely encased by "embedding material." The "embedding material" shall be clay or soil thoroughly compacted. Where rock occurs, six inches of compacted clay or soil will be required on all PVC line installations. In addition, the water and sewerage authority shall set specific standards for creek crossings and other abnormal areas which may be involved in the particular project. Where six-inch pipe is installed upon department of transportation right-of-way and the installation is required by the department of transportation to be off of the roadway shoulder and near the right-of-way boundary, the minimum water line installation depth shall be three feet. In all other cases, including but not limited to installation upon shoulders, installation of pipes greater than six inches inside diameter, and other cases not enumerated in the preceding sentence, the minimum water line installation depth shall be four feet.
i.
The balance of backfill above the embedding material shall not contain rock, stones or boulders larger than six inches in the greatest dimension and shall be free from brush or any other perishable or objectionable matter which would prevent proper consolidation or which might cause subsequent settlement.
j.
Satisfactory implements, tools and facilities shall be provided and used by the contractor for the safe and efficient execution of the work. All pipe, fittings, valves, hydrants and accessories shall be carefully lowered into the trench with suitable equipment in a manner which will prevent damage to pipe and fittings. Under no circumstances shall pipe or accessories be dropped or dumped into the trench. Pipe and accessories shall be inspected for defects prior to being lowered into the trench. Any defective, damaged or unsound material shall be repaired or replaced. All foreign matter or dirt shall be removed from the interior and machined ends of pipe and accessories before they are lowered into position into the trench. Pipe shall be kept clean during and after laying.
k.
The ends of pipe to be jointed and the rubber rings shall be cleaned immediately before assembly, and the assembly shall be made as recommended by the manufacturer. The location of field-assembled rings shall be checked with a suitable gauge to verify that rubber rings are in the required position.
l.
Pipe shall not be deflected either vertically or horizontally more than the limits recommended by the manufacturer.
m.
When pipe laying is not in progress, the open ends of installed pipe shall be plugged by approved means to prevent entrance of trench water into the line. Whenever water is excluded from the interior of the pipe, enough backfill shall be placed on the pipe to prevent floating. Any pipe that has floated shall be removed from the trench and relaid. No pipe shall be laid in wet trench conditions which preclude proper bedding, or on frozen trench bottom, or when, in the opinion of the inspector, the trench conditions or the weather are unsuitable for proper installation.
n.
All fittings and valves used with polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe shall be the same as specified for cast iron and ductile iron pipe as specified in this section. Only mechanical joint type fittings with duck tip transition gaskets, if required by the manufacturer, will be used.
1.
All fittings shall conform in every respect to AWWA Specification C110 (latest revision), Grey Iron and Ductile Iron Fittings, 2 Inches through 48 Inches, for Water and Other Liquids.
2.
Mechanical joints shall consist of a bolt joint of the stuffing box type as detailed in USAST Specification A21.10 (latest revision) and described in USAST Specification A21.11 (latest revision), Rubber Gasket Joints for Grey Iron and Ductile Iron Pressure Pipe and Fittings.
o.
At connections between cast iron fittings and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe, the connection shall be made with duck tip transition gaskets, if required by the manufacturer. The joint shall be made as provided for mechanical joint cast iron pipe.
p.
Where bends and tees occur in pressure mains, the contractor/developer will pour a block of concrete at the bend; or tee to prevent movement of the pipe when in use. The block shall consist of 3,000-pound concrete and shall be of size and shape to transmit thrust loads, for that size of pipe and pressures, to undisturbed earth. The contractor may use forms or earth walls to mold the "kickblock"; however, if earth walls are used they shall be cut true to shape with all excess earth removed and the work shall be done in such a manner that no loose earth will become mixed with the fresh concrete. At the end of 24 hours, damp earth may be placed over the concrete to help retain the moisture.
(2)
Testing.
a.
After all piping has been placed, each run shall be tested by the contractor/developer in the presence of the inspector and tests shall be continued until all leaks have been made tight to the satisfaction of the inspector. The contractor/developer shall furnish all necessary water, meters, gauges, bulkheads and other materials and appliances necessary to conduct the tests as required in this section.
b.
All piping shall be tested at a pressure of 100 psi above the maximum operating pressure for a period of two hours unless otherwise directed.
c.
Before applying the specified test pressure, all air shall be expelled from the pipe. If hydrants, blowoffs or air release valves are not available at the high places, the contractor/developer shall make the necessary taps at points of highest elevation before the test is made and insert plugs after the test has been completed.
d.
Prior to the pressure test in conjunction with AWWA C600, Section 4, Hydrostatic Test, pipe laid in trenches shall be partially backfilled adequately to secure the pipe during the test. All joints, fittings and valves will be left open where possible. All exposed pipe, fittings, valves and joints shall be carefully examined during the pressure test and any observed leakage shall require corrective measures to pipelines and/or joints as otherwise provided for in these specifications and to the satisfaction of the inspector.
e.
In conjunction with the pressure test a leakage test shall be performed on each valve section of pipe in accordance with Section 4, Hydrostatic Test of the latest Standard Specifications for Installation of Ductile Iron Water Mains, AWWA C 600 (latest revision).
f.
After all tests on any section have been completed to the satisfaction of the inspector, the contractor/developer shall carefully clean, blow out and drain the line of all water to prevent the freezing of the line. The contractor/developer shall also demonstrate to the satisfaction of the inspector that any and all lines are free from obstruction and foreign material.
(3)
Disinfection or sterilization of water lines.
a.
Disinfection of water lines shall be performed in accordance with the latest AWWA Specifications C601, AWWA Standard for Disinfecting Water Mains.
b.
Contractor/developer shall furnish all materials and equipment required for work under this item, including chlorine or chlorine compounds.
(Ord. No. 13, ch. 7, 8-22-1983; Ord. No. 13B, § 2, 4-14-1986)
Sec. 82-37. - Permits.
Prior to any installation of a water line covered by the provisions of this article, the person intending to install such line shall apply for a permit to install such line. The permit application shall be to an employee of the planning and community development department who shall transmit a copy of the application when completed to the public works director and to the county engineer or public works inspector. The public works director and the county engineer or public works inspector shall review the plans for the proposed water line according to the provisions of this article and shall notify the planning and community development director in writing that the proposed installation does, or does not, comply with the provisions of this article. If the system does comply, the planning and community development director shall issue a permit, without charge, for the installation. If the proposed system does not comply with the provisions of this article, the planning and community development director shall not issue a permit for the installation of the water line and shall notify the applicant in writing of the reasons therefor. In proposed water line installations where such is a part of a residential subdivision or commercial subdivision approval process, the permit application and permit issuance may be made a part of the total subdivision approval process and required information and permits may be included in the comprehensive subdivision application form.
(Ord. No. 13, ch. 10, 8-22-1983; Ord. No. 13B, § 2, 4-14-1986; Amd. of 12-1-2011)
Sec. 82-38. - Inspections.
Inspections shall be performed as set forth in this section with not less than 24 hours advance notice to the inspecting official. The planning and community development director shall designate the inspecting official for a particular inspection, who shall be the planning and community development director, the county engineer, the public works inspector, or the water superintendent employed by the public works director. Should any work not conform to the requirements of this article, the planning and community development director, the county engineer, or the public works inspector shall have the power to order no further work on the job until the work is brought into compliance. Inspections shall be performed not less frequently than: (i) upon delivery of any material on-site and prior to installation; (ii) upon installation of the line in the trench and prior to backfilling the trench or covering the line; (iii) at the time of the pressure test; and (iv) after the top of the trench is shaped and permanent vegetation placed or seeded thereon.
(Ord. No. 13, ch. 11, 8-22-1983; Ord. No. 13B, § 2, 4-14-1986; Amd. of 12-1-2011)
Sec. 82-39. - Certificate of compliance.
After completion of the water line installation in conformity with all requirements of this article and such other ordinances, resolutions, or regulations which may be applicable, the planning and community development director shall issue a certificate of compliance with copies provided to the developer, to the county manager, and to the public works director. No person shall tap onto the installed line until such certificate of compliance is issued.
(Ord. No. 13, ch. 12, 8-22-1983; Ord. No. 13B, § 2, 4-14-1986; Amd. of 12-1-2011)
Sec. 82-40. - Prohibition.
No person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, political subdivision of the state, authority, municipal corporation, or other legal entity not regulated by the public service commission in the delivery of water service shall install any water line within the unincorporated area of the county except in conformity with the provisions of this article, nor shall any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, political subdivision of the state, authority, municipal corporation, or other legal entity not regulated by the public service commission direct, procure, or otherwise cause such installation.
(Ord. No. 13, ch. 13, 8-22-1983)
Sec. 82-41. - Violations and penalties.
Any person who shall fail to comply with the provisions of this article, or who violates any of the provisions of this article, shall be punished as provided in section 1-12. The planning and community development director, inspector, county attorney, other appropriate official or employee of the county, or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be damaged by any violation, in addition to the criminal penalties set forth in this section, may institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, correct, or abate the violation or threatened violations of this article.
(Ord. No. 13, ch. 14, 8-22-1983; Amd. of 12-1-2011)
