ARTICLE IV. - JOHNS CREEK COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1990 Ga. Laws, page 4665 which created the Johns Creek Community Improvement District. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Short title.
This Act shall be referred to and may be cited as the "Johns Creek Community Improvement District Act."
Section 2. - Purpose.
The purpose of this Act shall be to provide for the creation of a community improvement district within unincorporated Forsyth County created for the provision of storm water and sewage collection and disposal systems.
Section 3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Agricultural purposes" means the growing of crops for sale or raising of animals for sale or use, including the growing of field crops, fruit or nut trees, the raising of livestock or poultry, and the operation of dairies, horse-boarding facilities, and riding stables.
(2)
"Board" means the governing body created for the governance of the Johns Creek Community Improvement District authorized in this Act.
(3)
"Bonds," or "general obligation bonds" means any bonds of the Johns Creek Community Improvement District which are authorized to be issued under the Constitution and laws of Georgia, including refunding bonds but not including notes or other obligations of the district.
(4)
"Cost of the project" or "cost of any project" means and includes:
(A)
All costs of acquisition (by purchase or otherwise), construction, assembly, installation, modification, renovation, or rehabilitation incurred in connection with any project or any part of any project;
(B)
All costs of real property, fixtures, or personal property used in or in connection with or necessary for any project or for any facilities related thereto, including, but not limited to, the cost of all land, estates for years, easements, rights, improvements, connections for utility services, fees, franchises, permits, approvals, licenses, and certificates; the cost of securing any such franchises, permits, approvals, licenses, or certificates; and the cost of preparation of any application therefor and the cost of all fixtures, machinery, equipment (including all transportation equipment and rolling stock), furniture, and other property used in or in connection with or necessary for any project;
(C)
All financing charges and loan fees and all interest on bonds, notes, or other obligations of the district which accrue or are paid prior to and during the period of construction of a project and during such additional period as the board may reasonably determine to be necessary to place such project in operation;
(D)
All costs of engineering, surveying, and architectural and legal services and all expenses incurred by engineers, surveyors, architects, and attorneys in connection with any project;
(E)
All expenses for inspection of any project;
(F)
All fees of fiscal agents, paying agents, and trustees for bondholders under any trust agreement, indenture of trust, or similar instrument or agreement; all expenses incurred by any such fiscal agents, paying agents, and trustees; and all other costs and expenses incurred relative to the issuance of any bonds, notes, or other obligations for any projects;
(G)
All expenses of or incidental to determining the feasibility or practicability of any project;
(H)
All costs of plans and specifications for any project;
(I)
All costs of title insurance and examinations of title with respect to any project;
(J)
Repayment of any loans made for the advance payment of any part of any of the foregoing costs, including interest thereon and any other expenses of such loans;
(K)
Administrative expenses of the board and such other expenses as may be necessary or incidental to any project or the financing thereof or the placing of any project in operation; and
(L)
The establishment of a fund or funds for the creation of a debt service reserve, a renewal and replacement reserve, or such other funds or reserves as the board may approve with respect to the financing and operation of any project and as may be authorized by any bond resolution, trust agreement, indenture of trust, or similar instrument or agreement pursuant to the provisions of which the issuance of any bonds, notes, or other obligations of the district may be authorized.
Any cost, obligation, or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of proceeds of bonds, notes, or other obligations issued by the district.
(5)
"District" means the geographical area designated as such by the resolution of the Board of Commissioners of Forsyth County consenting to the creation of the Johns Creek Community Improvement District.
(6)
"Equitably apportioned among the properties subject to such taxes, fees, and assessments according to the need for governmental services and facilities created by the degree of density of development of each such property," with reference to taxes, fees, and assessments levied by the board, means that the burden of the taxes, fees, and assessments shall be apportioned among the properties subject thereto based upon the values established in the most recent ad valorem tax reassessment of such properties certified by the chairman of the Forsyth County Board of Tax Assessors.
(7)
"Forestry purposes" means the planting and growing of trees for sale in a program which includes reforestation of harvested trees, regular underbrush and undesirable growth clearing, fertilizing, pruning, thinning, cruising, and marking which indicate an active tree-farming operation; it does not include the casual growing of trees on land otherwise idle or held for investment, even though some harvesting of trees may occur thereon.
(8)
"Johns Creek Owners Association" means the Georgia nonprofit corporation, its successors, and assigns, to be organized by the owners of real property within the district which will be subject to taxes, fees, and assessments levied by the board of the district.
(9)
"Project" means the acquisition, construction, installation, modification, renovation, or rehabilitation of land, interests in land, buildings, structures, facilities, or other improvements located or to be located within or outside the district, and the acquisition, installation, modification, renovation, rehabilitation, or furnishing of fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture, or other property of any nature whatsoever used on, in, or in connection with any such land, interest in land, building, structure, facility, or other improvement, all for the essential public purposes set forth in Section 2 of this Act.
(10)
"Property owner" or "owner of real property" means any entity or person shown as a taxpayer for one or more parcels of real estate on the most recent ad valorem tax records of Forsyth County within the district as certified by the Forsyth County Tax Commissioner. Multiple owners of one parcel shall constitute one property owner and shall designate in writing one of their number to represent the whole.
(11)
"Property used nonresidentially" means property used for general commercial, office, or institutional, office services, or other commercial or business use which does not include residential.
(12)
"Taxpayer" means any entity or person paying ad valorem taxes on real property, whether on one or more parcels of property within the district. Multiple owners of one parcel shall constitute one taxpayer and shall designate in writing one of their number to represent the whole.
Section 4. - Creation.
(A)
Pursuant to Article IX, Section VII of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, there is created the Johns Creek Community Improvement District to be located in unincorporated Forsyth County, Georgia, which shall be activated upon compliance with the conditions provided in this Act, and which shall be governed by a board as constituted in this Act. The conditions for such activation shall be:
(1)
The adoption of a resolution consenting to the creation of the Johns Creek Community Improvement District by the Board of Commissioners of Forsyth County; and
(2)
Written consent to the creation of the community improvement district by:
(A)
A majority of the owners of real property within the district which will be subject to taxes, fees, and assessments levied by the board of the district;
(B)
The owners of real property within the district which constitutes at least 75 percent by value of all real property within the district which will be subject to taxes, fees, and assessments levied by the board and for this purpose value shall be determined by the most recently approved county ad valorem tax digest; and
(C)
The written consents provided for in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this paragraph shall be submitted to the Forsyth County Tax Commissioner who shall certify whether subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this paragraph have been satisfied.
The board or district created under this Act shall not transact any business or exercise any powers under this Act until the conditions provided for in subsection (a) of this section are met. A copy of such resolutions shall be filed with the Secretary of State who shall maintain a record of the district activated under this Act and with the Department of Community Affairs.
Section 5. - Administration, appointment, and election of board members.
The Johns Creek Community Improvement District created pursuant to this Act shall be administered by a board composed of five members to be appointed as provided in this section. Two board members shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Forsyth County and three board members shall be appointed by the owners of real property within the district subject to taxes, fees, and assessments levied by the board. The board members appointed by the board of commissioners shall serve at the pleasure of the board of commissioners. The board members appointed by the owners of such real property shall serve at the pleasure of the owners of such real property. No board member shall be required to be a resident of the district or of Forsyth County.
Section 6. - Taxes, fees, and assessments.
(a)
The board may levy taxes, fees, and assessments within the district only on real property used nonresidentially, specifically excluding all property exempt from ad valorem taxation under the Constitution or laws of the State of Georgia and all property used for residential, agricultural, or forestry purposes and specifically excluding tangible personal property and intangible property. Any tax, fee, or assessment so levied shall not exceed 2½ percent of the aggregate assessed value of all such real property. The taxes, fees, and assessments levied by the board shall be equitably apportioned among the properties subject to such taxes, fees, and assessments according to the need for governmental services and facilities created by the degree of density of development of each such property. The proceeds of taxes, fees, and assessments levied by the board shall be used only for the purpose of providing governmental services and facilities which are specifically required by the degree of density of development within the district and not for the purpose of providing those governmental services and facilities provided to Forsyth County as a whole. Any tax, fee, or assessment so levied shall be collected by Forsyth County in the same manner as taxes, fees, and assessments are levied by Forsyth County. Delinquent taxes shall bear the same interest and penalties as Forsyth County ad valorem taxes and may be enforced and collected in the same manner. The proceeds of taxes, fees, and assessments so levied, less a fee to cover the costs of collection of 1 percent thereof, but not more than $25,000.00 in any one calendar year, shall be transmitted by Forsyth County to the board and shall be expended by the board only for the purposes authorized hereby.
(b)
The board shall levy the taxes provided for in subsection (a) of this section between January 1 and June 1 of each calendar year and notify in writing the Forsyth County Tax Commissioner by June 15 each year so that he may include the levy on his regular ad valorem tax bills.
(c)
If a parcel of real property is removed from the district or otherwise would become nontaxable it shall continue to bear its tax millage then extant upon such event for bonded indebtedness of the district then outstanding until said bonded indebtedness then outstanding is paid or refunded.
Section 7. - Boundaries of the districts.
The boundaries of the district shall be designated by the Board of Commissioners of Forsyth County in the resolution required in Section 4 of this Act.
Section 8. - Debt.
The district may incur debt without regard to the requirements of Article IX, Section V of the Constitution of Georgia, which debt shall be backed by the full faith, credit, and taxing power of the district but shall not be an obligation of the State of Georgia or any other unit of government of the State of Georgia other than the district.
Section 9. - Cooperation with local governments.
The services and facilities provided pursuant to this Act shall be provided for in a cooperation agreement executed jointly by the board of the district and the Board of Commissioners of Forsyth County. The provisions of this section shall in no way limit the authority of Forsyth County to provide services or facilities within the district; and Forsyth County shall retain full and complete authority and control over any of its facilities located within the district. Said control shall include but not be limited to the modification of, access to, and degree and type of services provided through or by facilities of the county. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to limit or preempt the application of any governmental laws, ordinances, resolutions, or regulations to the district or the services or facilities provided in the district.
Section 10. - Powers.
(a)
The Johns Creek Community Improvement District and its board created pursuant to this Act shall have all of the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of this Act, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power:
(1)
To bring and defend actions;
(2)
To adopt and amend a corporate seal;
(3)
To make and execute contracts, agreements, and other instruments necessary or convenient to exercise the powers of the board or to further the public purposes for which the district is created, including, but not limited to, contracts for construction of projects, leases of projects, easements, contracts for sale of projects, agreements for loans to finance projects, and contracts with respect to the use, operation, and management of projects;
(4)
To acquire by purchase, easement, lease, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character, or any interest therein, in furtherance of the public purposes of the district whether within or outside the district;
(5)
To finance (by loan, grant, lease, or otherwise), construct, erect, assemble, purchase, acquire, own, repair, remodel, renovate, rehabilitate, modify, maintain, extend, improve, install, sell, equip, expand, add to, operate, or manage projects and to pay the cost of any project from the proceeds of bonds, notes, or other obligations of the district or any other funds of the district, or from any contributions or loans by persons, corporations, partnerships (whether limited or general), or other entities, all of which the board is authorized to receive, accept, and use;
(6)
To borrow money to further or carry out its public purposes and to execute bonds, notes, other obligations, leases, trust indentures, trust agreements, agreements for the sale of its bonds, notes, or other obligations, loan agreements, security agreements, assignments, and such other agreements or instruments as may be necessary or desirable, in the judgment of the board, to evidence and to provide security for such borrowing;
(7)
To issue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the district and use the proceeds thereof for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project and otherwise to further or carry out the public purposes of the district and to pay all costs of the board incidental to, or necessary and appropriate to, furthering or carrying out such purposes;
(8)
To make application directly or indirectly to any federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency or to any other source, whether public or private, for loans, grants, guaranties, or other financial assistance in furtherance of the district's public purposes and to accept and use the same upon such terms and conditions as are prescribed by such federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency or other source;
(9)
To enter into agreements with the federal government or any agency thereof to use the facilities or services of the federal government or any agency thereof in order to further or carry out the public purposes of the district;
(10)
To contract for any period, not exceeding 50 years, with the State of Georgia, state institutions, or any municipal corporation, authority, county, or political subdivision of this state for the use by the district of any facilities or services of the state or any such state institution, municipal corporation, authority, county, or political subdivision of this state, or for the use by any state institution or any municipal corporation, authority, county, or political subdivision of the state of any facilities or services of the district, provided that such contracts shall deal with such activities and transactions as the district and any such political subdivision with which the district contracts are authorized by law to undertake;
(11)
To receive and use the proceeds of any tax levied by Forsyth County to pay the costs of any project or for any other purpose for which the board may use its own funds pursuant to this Act;
(12)
To receive and administer gifts, grants, and devises of money and property of any kind and to administer trusts;
(13)
To use any real property, personal property, or fixtures or any interest therein or to rent or lease such property to or from others or make contracts with respect to the use thereof or to sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign, pledge, or otherwise dispose of or grant options for any such property in any manner as it deems to be to the best advantage of the district and the public purposes of the district;
(14)
To establish and levy fees against users of the facilities services as provided by the district in such cases when the services can be provided through a user charge system, specifically including the collection, treatment, and disposal of sewage;
(15)
To appoint, select, and employ engineers, surveyors, architects, urban or city planners, fiscal agents, attorneys, and others and to fix their compensation and pay their expenses;
(16)
To encourage and promote the improvement and development of the district and to make, contract for, or otherwise cause to be made long-range plans or proposals for the district in cooperation with Forsyth County;
(17)
To adopt bylaws governing the conduct of business by the board, the election and duties of officers of the board, and other matters which the board determines to deal with in its bylaws;
(18)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of this state to public or private corporations which is not in conflict with the public purposes of the district; and
(19)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers conferred by this Act.
(b)
The powers enumerated in each paragraph of subsection (a) of this section are cumulative of and in addition to those powers enumerated in this section and elsewhere in this Act; and no such power limits or restricts any other power of the board.
Section 11. - Bonds.
(a)
Notes or other obligations issued by the district, other than general obligation bonds, shall be paid from the property pledged to pay such notes or other obligations, or from user fees established against users of the facilities and services provided by the district, or from payments received in accordance with absolute and unconditional guarantee agreements with users of the services and facilities, or from any combination thereof. General obligation bonds issued by the district shall constitute a general obligation of the district to the repayment of which the full faith and credit and taxing power of the district shall be pledged.
(b)
All bonds, notes, and other obligations of the district shall be authorized by resolution of its board which shall be adopted by a majority vote of the board members at a regular or special meeting.
(c)
Bonds, notes, or other obligations shall bear such date or dates, shall mature at such time or times (not more than 40 years from their respective dates), shall bear interest at such rate or rates (which may be fixed or may fluctuate or otherwise change from time to time), shall be subject to redemption on such terms and shall contain such other terms, provisions, covenants, assignments, and conditions as the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds, notes, or other obligations may permit or provide. The terms, provisions, covenants, assignments, and conditions contained in or provided or permitted by any resolution of the board authorizing the issuance of such bonds, notes, or other obligations shall bind the board members of the district then in office and their successors.
(d)
The board shall have power from time to time and whenever it deems it expedient to refund any bonds by the issuance of new bonds, whether or not the bonds to be refunded have matured, and may issue bonds partly to refund bonds then outstanding and partly for any other purpose permitted under this Act. The refunding bonds may be exchanged for the bonds to be refunded, with such cash adjustments as may be agreed upon, or may be sold and the proceeds applied to the purchase or redemption of the bonds to be refunded.
(e)
There shall be no limitation upon the interest rates or any maximum interest rate or rates on any bonds, notes, or other obligations of the district; and the usury laws of this state shall not apply to bonds, notes, or other obligations of the district.
(f)
Bonds issued by the district shall be fully registered and may be subject to such exchangeability and transferability provisions as the bond resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or any indenture or trust agreement may provide.
(g)
Bonds shall bear a certificate of validation. The signature of the clerk of the Superior Court of Forsyth County may be made on the certificate of validation of such bonds by facsimile or by manual execution, stating the date on which such bonds were validated; and such entry shall be original evidence of the fact of judgment and shall be received as original evidence in any court in this state.
(h)
In lieu of specifying the rate or rates of interest which such bonds are to bear and the principal amount and maturities of such said bonds, the notice to the district attorney or the Attorney General, the notice to the public of the time, place, and date of the validation hearing, and the petition and complaint for validation may state that the bonds when issued will bear interest at a rate not exceeding a maximum per annum rate of interest (which may be fixed or may fluctuate or otherwise change from time to time) and that the principal amount will not exceed and the final maturity date will not be later than as specified in such notices and petition and complaint or may state that, in the event the bonds are to bear different rates of interest for different maturity dates, none of such rates will exceed the maximum rate (which may be fixed or may fluctuate or otherwise change from time to time) so specified; provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting or restricting the right of a board to sell such bonds at a discount, even if in doing so the effective interest cost resulting therefrom would exceed the maximum per annum interest rate specified in such notices and in the petition and complaint.
(i)
The terms "cost of the project" and "cost of any project" shall have the meaning prescribed in this Act whenever those terms are referred to in bond resolutions of a board, in bonds, notes, or other obligations of the district, or in notices of proceedings to validate such bonds, notes, or other obligations of the district.
Section 12. - Authorized contents of agreements and instruments of the board generally; use of proceeds of sale of bonds, notes, or other obligations; subsequent issues of bonds, notes, or other obligations.
(a)
Subject to the limitations and procedures provided by this section and by the immediately preceding section, the agreements or instruments executed by the board may contain such provisions not inconsistent with law as shall be determined by the board.
(b)
The proceeds derived from the sale of all bonds, notes, and other obligations issued by the district shall be held and used for the ultimate purpose of paying, directly or indirectly as permitted in this Act, all or part of the cost of any project, or for the purpose of refunding any bonds, notes, or other obligations issued in accordance under this Act.
(c)
Issuance by the board of one or more series of bonds, notes, or other obligations for one or more purposes shall not preclude it from issuing other bonds, notes, or other obligations in connection with the same project or with any other project; but the proceeding wherein any subsequent bonds, notes, or other obligations are issued shall recognize and protect any prior loan agreement, security agreement, or other agreement or instrument made for any prior issue of bonds, notes, or other obligations, unless in the resolution authorizing such prior issue the right is expressly reserved to the board to issue subsequent bonds, notes, or other obligations on a parity with such prior issue.
(d)
Upon the final repayment of any and all bonds, notes, or other obligations of the district issued under this Act, the board shall make an offer to convey all property and facilities of the board and district to Forsyth County.
Section 13. - Construction; applicability of O.C.G.A. title 10, chapter 5, the "Georgia Securities Act of 1973"; notice; proceeding; publication; referendum.
This Act shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof. The offer, sale, or issuance of bonds, notes, or other obligations by a district shall not be subject to regulation under O.C.G.A. title 10, chapter 5, the "Georgia Securities Act of 1973." No notice, proceeding, or publication except those required by this Act shall be necessary to the performance of any act authorized by this Act, nor shall any such act be subject to referendum.
Section 14. - Contingent repeal.
In the event the resolution required by Section 4 of this Act to be filed with the Secretary of State is not so filed by December 31, 1990, this Act shall stand repealed in its entirety on January 1, 1991.
Section 15. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
