DIVISION 6. - INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS AND GENERAL PERMITS

Sec. 82-66. - Wastewater analysis.
When requested by the director, a user must submit information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days of the request. The director is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require users to update this information.
(Ord. No. 114-B, § 1(Exh. A), 12-5-2019)
Sec. 82-67. - Individual wastewater discharge permit and general permit requirement.
(a)
No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the POTW without first obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit or general permit from the director, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a timely application pursuant to section 82-70 of this article may continue to discharge for the time period specified therein.
(b)
The director may require other users, including potential industrial users to obtain individual wastewater discharge permits or general permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this article. Non-significant categorical industrial users (NSCIU) may be treated as potential industrial users and issued industrial (zero) discharge permits if they create no indirect discharge.
(c)
At the discretion of the director, the director may use general permits to control SIU dischargers to the POTW if the following conditions are met. All facilities to be covered by a general permit must:
■ Involve the same or substantially similar types of operations;
■ Discharge the same types of wastes;
■ Require the same effluent limitations;
■ Require the same or similar monitoring (subject to waivers granted pursuant to subsection (c) below); and
■ In the opinion of the director, are more appropriately controlled under a general permit than under individual wastewater discharge permits.
(d)
To be covered by the general permit, the SIU must file a written request for coverage and complete a general permit application that identifies its contact information, production processes, the types of wastes generated, the location for monitoring all wastes covered by the general permit, any requests in accordance with 40 CFR 403.12(e)(2) for a monitoring waiver for a pollutant neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge, and any other information the director deems appropriate. A monitoring waiver for a pollutant neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge is not effective in the general permit until after the director has provided written notice to the SIU that such a waiver request has been granted. The waiver will in no event last longer than the effective period of the general permit, and the process of granting the waiver must comply with 40 CFR 403.12(e)(2).
(e)
The director will retain a copy of the general permit documentation to support the POTW's determination that a specific SIU meets the criteria in section 82-67(b) and applicable state regulations, and a copy of the user's general permit application for coverage for three years after the expiration of the general permit.
(f)
The director may not control the SIU through a general permit where the facility is subject to production based categorical pretreatment standards or categorical pretreatment standards expressed as a mass of pollutant discharged per day for IUs whose limits are based on the combined waste stream formula, or net/gross calculations.
(g)
Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual wastewater discharge permit or general permit shall be deemed a violation of this article and subjects the permittee to the sanctions set out in divisions 13 through 15 of this article. Obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit or general permit does not relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards or with any other requirements of federal, state, and local law.
(Ord. No. 114-B, § 1(Exh. A), 12-5-2019)
Sec. 82-68. - Individual wastewater discharge permitting and general permitting: existing connections.
Any user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit or general permit who was discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this article and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within 30 days after said date, apply to the director for an individual wastewater discharge permit or general permit in accordance with section 82-70 of this article, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after 90 days of the effective date of this article except in accordance with an individual wastewater discharge permit or general permit issued by the director.
(Ord. No. 114-B, § 1(Exh. A), 12-5-2019)
Sec. 82-69. - Individual wastewater discharge permitting or general permitting: new connections.
Any user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit or general permit who proposes to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this individual wastewater discharge permit or general permit, in accordance with section 82-70 of this article, must be filed at least 90 days prior to the date upon which any discharge will begin or recommence.
(Ord. No. 114-B, § 1(Exh. A), 12-5-2019)
Sec. 82-70. - Individual wastewater discharge permit and general permit application contents.
(a)
All users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit must submit a permit application. The director may require users to submit all or some of the following information as part of a permit application:
(1)
Identifying information.
a.
The name and address of the facility, including the name of the operator and owner.
b.
Contact information, description of activities, facilities, and plant production processes on the premises.
(2)
Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits held by or for the facility.
(3)
Description of operations.
a.
A brief description of the nature, average rate of production (including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and rate of production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a schematic process diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated processes;
b.
Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
c.
Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or actual hours of operation;
d.
Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per day);
e.
Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location, and elevation, and all points of discharge;
(4)
Time and duration of discharges.
(5)
The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the permit.
(6)
Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined wastestream formula set out in section 82-58(2) (40 CFR 403.6(e)). The control authority may allow for verifiable estimates at these flows where justified by cost or feasibility.
(7)
Measurement of pollutants.
a.
The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing sources.
b.
The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and concentration, and/or mass, where required by a standard or by the director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
c.
Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or mass, where required.
d.
Samples shall be representative of daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in section 82-90 of this article. Where required to comply with a BMP or pollution prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as required by the director or the applicable standards to determine compliance with the standard.
e.
Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out in section 82-91 of this article.
(8)
Any requests for a monitoring waiver (or a renewal of an approved monitoring waiver) for a pollutant neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge based on section 82-84.
(9)
Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the director to evaluate the permit application.
(b)
Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will be returned to the user for revision.
(Ord. No. 114-B, § 1(Exh. A), 12-5-2019)
Sec. 82-71. - Application signatories and certifications.
(a)
All wastewater discharge permit applications, user reports and certification statements must be signed by an authorized representative of the user and contain the certification statement in section 82-94(a).
(b)
If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the requirements of this section must be submitted to the director prior to or together with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
(Ord. No. 114-B, § 1(Exh. A), 12-5-2019)
Sec. 82-72. - Individual wastewater discharge permit and general permit decisions.
The director will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require additional information. Within 30 days of receipt of a complete permit application, the director will determine whether to issue a wastewater discharge permit. The director may deny any application for a wastewater discharge permit.
The director may determine that an industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards under § 403.6 and 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N is a non-significant categorical industrial user rather than a significant industrial user on a finding that the industrial user never discharges more than 100 gallons per day (gpd) of total categorical wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater, unless specifically included in the pretreatment standard) and the following conditions are met: (i) the industrial user, prior to the director's finding, has consistently complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards and requirements; (ii) the industrial user annually submits the certification statement required in § 403.12(q) together with any additional information necessary to support the certification statement; and (iii) the industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated wastewater. (40 CFR 403.3(v)(2))
(Ord. No. 114-B, § 1(Exh. A), 12-5-2019)
