Chapter 78 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]

Sec. 78-1. - Street and sidewalk improvement regulation adopted.
There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of providing, making, establishing and regulating street and sidewalk improvements, the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-39-1 et seq., being 1927 Ga. Laws, page 321, as amended. The provisions thereof shall be controlling within the city; provided, however, that should the provisions thereof conflict with any provisions of this Code, then the more restrictive provisions shall be deemed controlling.
(Code 1982, § 20-1)
Charter reference— Street and sidewalk improvements generally, § 25 et seq.
Sec. 78-2. - Excavations—Permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, except the city, to make any cut or excavation in any city street or sidewalk, without first obtaining a permit from the superintendent of public works.
(Code 1982, § 20-2)
Sec. 78-3. - Excavations—Form of application and permit.
(a)
Any person desiring to cut or make any excavation in any street or paved sidewalk in the city or otherwise affect the right-of-way along any street or sidewalk for the purpose of constructing, installing, operating, maintaining or making connections with any public utility or public utility apparatus, must secure approval from the public works department prior to initiating any such action.
(b)
Approval for such work may be gained by completion of an application and permit form, which shall be supplied by the public works department, and which shall be approved by the director of public works or his designee.
(c)
The director of public works is authorized to set standards for any work or act covered by this section.
(d)
The fee for the application and permit shall be as set by the mayor and city council.
(Code 1982, § 20-3; Ord. of 2-17-2000)
Sec. 78-4. - Excavations—Responsibility of excavator.
Any person who shall obtain an excavation permit required by section 78-2 shall thereby assume full responsibility for any loss or damage to the city or any person as a result of such excavation or other acts of negligence, and shall indemnify the city against any loss resulting from any damage to either person or the property of any person, and any such permit shall contain such provision.
(Code 1982, § 20-4)
Sec. 78-5. - Excavations—Refilling and repairing.
It shall be unlawful for any person, after having made an excavation in any street, to refill the excavation, except under the immediate supervision and direction of the superintendent of public works. The cost of restoring any such excavated street to its former condition shall be paid by the person making or causing such excavation.
(Code 1982, § 20-5)
Sec. 78-6. - Excavations—Safety precautions.
It shall be the duty of the person making any excavation in any public street or place to maintain a signal at the place of excavation by keeping an amber light burning at the excavation site from sundown to sunrise and a red flag during the day, and to place or construct a railing or barricade next to such excavation.
(Code 1982, § 20-6)
Sec. 78-7. - Obstruction of streets and sidewalks.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place on any street or sidewalk any shavings, refuse, materials or any other obstructions tending to prevent free passage.
(Code 1982, § 20-7)
Sec. 78-8. - Location of poles and posts.
All posts or poles for electric wires, telephone, telegraph or other purposes shall be placed on the edge of sidewalks on the curbing line so as not to damage trees or obstruct passage on the sidewalks or streets, or interfere with working or draining the streets.
(Code 1982, § 20-8)
Sec. 78-9. - Conveyance of alleyways to adjoining landowners.
The conveyance of property occupied by alleyways to adjoining landowners in equal portion is hereby authorized on the following conditions:
(1)
All adjoining landowners along the full length of the alleyway agree to such conveyance;
(2)
The adjoining landowners pay all costs and legal fees in connection with such conveyance;
(3)
The city reserve an easement for utility purposes across the lands.
(Code 1982, § 20-9)
