Chapter 14 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Authority to regulate animals, § 1.13(1).
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 34; health and sanitation, ch. 46; RA residential-agricultural district, app. A, art. XIV.
State Law reference— Dogfighting, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-37; cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4; sale of dog meat for human consumption prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 26-2-160; fish, O.C.G.A. § 27-4-30 et seq.; wild animals, O.C.G.A. § 27-5-4 et seq.; control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.; animal bites, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-4; inoculation of dogs and cats against rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-6; rabies inoculation tags, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-6; Georgia Animal Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.; livestock running at large, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-1 et seq.; Dead Animal Disposal Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-5-1 et seq.; Dangerous Dog Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; permitting dogs in heat to run at large, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-6; liability of owner or keeper of vicious or dangerous animal for injuries caused by animal, O.C.G.A. § 51-2-7; authority to exercise animal control, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Abandonment prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave, dump or abandon any animal within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1986, § 11-3-1)
Sec. 14-2. - Livestock prohibited.
No fowls, horses, mules, cattle, sheep, goats, swine or other like animals shall be kept or allowed to remain upon any private property or premises located within the city; neither shall any fowls, horses, mules, cattle, sheep, goats, swine or any such animals belonging to the owners or occupants of any residence or property located within the city be allowed to roam at large on the streets or highways or alleys of the city.
(Code 1986, § 11-3-2)
Sec. 14-3. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Dog includes female as well as male dogs.
Nuisance means but is not limited to defecation, urination, disturbing the peace, destroying private property, attacking persons or other animals, emitting noxious or offensive odors, or emitting noxious or offensive sounds and noises.
Officer means any police officer of the city and/or any officer or employee of the county rabies control department.
Owner means any person owning, having an interest, or having control or custody or possession of any dog.
Running at large means off the premises of the owner or custodian of the dog and not under the immediate control of the owner or custodian.
Public road means any street, road, highway or way, including the full width of the right-of-way, open to the use of the public for vehicular travel.
Vicious dog means any dog which shall bite or in any other manner attack or attempt to attack any person within the corporate limits of the city; except that any dog which bites, attacks or attempts to attack any person unlawfully on its owner's or keeper's premises or which is provoked to attack shall not be deemed to be a vicious dog.
(Code 1986, § 11-3-11)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-4. - Restraint of dogs.
The owner, keeper or custodian of any dog within the corporate limits of the city shall be responsible for keeping it from becoming a nuisance or from endangering or injuring any other persons or property, and shall further keep the dog under control at all times.
(Code 1986, § 11-3-12)
Sec. 14-5. - Running at large prohibited.
No person owning, having an interest in, harboring, or having charge, care, control, custody or possession of any dog shall cause or permit the dog to be off the premises of its owner unless such dog is securely confined by a strong leash, securely and continuously held by a competent person owning, having an interest in, harboring, or having charge, care, control, custody or possession of the dog, or unless the dog is confined within a vehicle.
(Code 1986, § 11-3-13)
Sec. 14-6. - Barking dogs.
It is declared to be a nuisance, and no person shall keep, maintain or permit any dog within the municipal boundaries of the city which by any sound, bark or cry shall interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property by any person. A dog must bark for a 15-minute period before the dog will be considered a nuisance.
(Code 1986, § 11-3-14)
Sec. 14-7. - Cleanliness of premises where dogs are kept.
Every person owning or occupying premises where any dog is kept shall keep the premises in which the dog is kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Code 1986, § 11-3-15)
Sec. 14-8. - Administration.
Police officers of the city and/or any officer or employee of the county rabies control department shall have the duty and the power to enforce all sections of this chapter and may institute proceedings in the municipal court on behalf of the city against any person violating any provisions or terms of this chapter.
(Code 1986, § 11-3-18)
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 14-9. - Impoundment; killing of certain dogs.
(a)
It shall be the duty of any officer or employee of the county rabies control department to impound in the county pound all dogs found running at large. Impoundment fees, redemption and disposition of animals shall be in accordance with the county pound regulations.
(b)
If in the attempt to seize a dog it becomes impossible to secure it with the hands, the rabies control officer, upon being convinced that the seizure of the dog is necessary to the public welfare and safety, may, within his discretion, destroy the dog by shooting it, provided he is close enough to the dog to kill it humanely and far enough removed from any bystander so that no lives may be imperiled by the act.
(Code 1986, § 11-3-19)
Sec. 14-10. - Interference with officers.
Any person who shall hinder, molest or interfere with a police officer or county rabies control officer in the performance of any duty provided by this chapter, or any person who shall use a tag on a dog for which it was not issued, and any person who owns or harbors a dog without complying with the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the penalties of section 14-11.
(Code 1986, § 11-3-20)
Sec. 14-11. - Penalties.
Any person who is convicted of a violation of any section or subsection of this chapter shall be punished as provided in Charter section 4.13. However, no person shall be charged or convicted of keeping or maintaining a nuisance unless and until the city warrant for violation of this chapter has been signed by the complainant.
(Code 1986, § 11-3-21)
Secs. 14-12—14-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DANGEROUS DOGS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Dangerous Dog Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.

Sec. 14-41. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Animal control board means a board consisting of three persons, two of which shall be appointed by the city and one of which shall be appointed by the county board of commissioners. The board shall hold hearings to hear and determine certain matters provided for in this article.
Animal control officer means an employee of the city whose duties specifically include enforcement of the provisions of this article.
Dangerous dog means any dog that, according to the records of an appropriate authority:
(1)
Inflicts a severe injury on a human being without provocation on public or private property.
(2)
Aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the safety of humans without provocation after the dog has been classified as a potentially dangerous dog and after the owner has been notified of such classification.
Dog control officer means the chief of police of the city and employees of the animal control division acting under his supervision and control.
Governing authority means the city council.
Local government means the city.
Owner means any natural person or any legal entity, including but not limited to a corporation, partnership, firm or trust, owning, possessing, harboring, keeping or having custody or control of a dog or cat within the territorial boundaries of the city.
Potentially dangerous dog means any dog that without provocation bites a human being on public or private property.
Proper enclosure means an enclosure for keeping a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog while on the owner's property securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen, fence or structure suitable to prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the dog from escaping. Any such pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top; and, if the dog is enclosed within a fence, all sides of the fence shall be of sufficient height and the bottom of the fence shall be constructed or secured in such a manner as to prevent the dog's escape either from over or from under the fence. Any such enclosure shall also provide protection from the elements for the dog.
Rabies control officer means an employee of the county board of health, whose specific duties include enforcement of the rabies control rules and regulations of the county.
Records of an appropriate authority means records of any state, county or municipal law enforcement agency; records of any county or municipal animal control agency; records of any county board of health; records of any federal, state or local court; or records maintained by the dog control officer pursuant to this article and state law.
Severe injury means any physical injury that results in broken bones or disfiguring lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery or a physical injury that results in death.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-42. - Exemptions.
A dog that inflicts an injury upon a person when the dog is being used by a law enforcement officer to carry out the law enforcement officer's official duties shall not be a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog within the meaning of this article. A dog shall not be a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog within the meaning of this article if the injury inflicted by the dog was sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass or other tort, or was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or had in the past been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the dog, or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
Sec. 14-43. - Investigation of reports; classification of dogs as dangerous or potentially dangerous.
Upon receiving a report of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog within a dog control officer's jurisdiction from a law enforcement agency, animal control agency, rabies control officer or county board of health, the dog control officer shall make such investigations and inquiries with regard to such report as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this article. Whenever the dog control officer classifies a dog as a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog, or reclassifies a potentially dangerous dog as a dangerous dog, notice shall be given the dog's owner in writing by certified mail to the owner's last known address of such classification or reclassification. Such notice shall be complete upon its mailing.
Sec. 14-44. - Notice to owner.
The notice mailed to the owner as provided in section 14-43 shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
The notice shall be in writing and mailed by certified mail to the owner's last known address.
(2)
The notice shall include a summary of the dog control officer's findings that formed the basis for the dog's classification as a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog.
(3)
The notice shall be dated and shall state that the owner, within 15 days after the date shown on the notice, has a right to request a hearing on the dog control officer's determination that the dog is a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog. The hearing shall be held before the animal control board.
(4)
The notice shall state that if a hearing is not requested and received by the office of the dog control officer within 15 days after the date shown on the notice, the dog control officer's determination that the dog is a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog will become effective for all purposes under this article on a date specified in the notice, which shall be after the last day on which the owner has a right to request a hearing.
(5)
The notice shall include a form to request a hearing before the animal control board and shall provide specific instructions on mailing or delivering the form to the office of the dog control officer.
Sec. 14-45. - Hearing.
When the animal control officer receives a request for a hearing as provided in section 14-44, he shall schedule such hearing within 30 days after receiving the request. The animal control officer shall notify the dog owner in writing by certified mail of the date, time and place of the hearing; and such notice shall be mailed to the dog owner at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing. At the hearing, the owner of the dog shall be given the opportunity to testify and present evidence; and in addition thereto the animal control board shall receive such other evidence and hear such other testimony as the animal control board may find reasonably necessary to make a determination either to sustain, modify or overrule the dog control officer's classification of the dog.
Sec. 14-46. - Determination after hearing.
Within ten days after the date of the hearing provided for in this article, the animal control board shall notify the owner in writing by certified mail of its determination on the matter. If such determination is that the dog is a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog, the notice shall specify that it is effective on the third day following the date shown on the letter notice.
Sec. 14-47. - Enforcement procedures.
As applied to the owners of potentially dangerous dogs, the procedures provided for in this article must be carried out as a necessary condition for the enforcement of the provisions of this article against such owners. As applied to the owners of dangerous dogs, the procedures provided for in this article shall not be an essential element of any crime provided for in this article.
Sec. 14-48. - Registration.
(a)
It is unlawful for an owner to have or possess in this city a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog without a certificate of registration issued in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(b)
Subject to the additional requirements of section 14-49 for dangerous dogs, the dog control officer shall issue a certificate of registration to the owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog if the owner presents to the dog control officer or if the dog control officer finds sufficient evidence of:
(1)
A proper enclosure to confine the dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog.
(2)
The posting of the premises where the dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog is located with a clearly visible sign warning that there is a dangerous dog on the property and containing a symbol designed to inform children of the presence of a dangerous dog.
(3)
Payment to the city of a fee in the amount set out in the schedule of fees to defray the cost of administering and enforcing this section.
Sec. 14-49. - Insurance, bond requirements.
In addition to the requirements of section 14-48, the owner of a dangerous dog shall present to the dog control officer evidence of:
(1)
A policy of insurance in the amount of at least $15,000.00 issued by an insurer authorized to transact business within the state insuring the owner of the dog against liability for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog; or
(2)
A surety bond in the amount of $15,000.00 or more issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in this state payable to any person injured by the dangerous dog.
Sec. 14-50. - Scope of certificate issuance.
Issuance of a certificate of registration or the renewal of a certificate of registration by the city does not warrant or guarantee that the requirements of the law of the state or as specified in sections 14-48 and 14-49 are maintained by the owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog on a continuous basis following the date of the issuance of the initial certificate of registration or following the date of any annual renewal of such certificate.
Sec. 14-51. - Renewal of registration certificate.
Certificates of registration of dangerous dogs and potentially dangerous dogs shall be renewed on an annual basis. At the time of the annual renewal of a certificate of registration, a dog control officer shall require evidence from the owner or make such investigation as may be necessary to verify that the dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog is continuing to be confined in a proper enclosure and that the owner is continuing to comply with other provisions of this article.
Sec. 14-52. - Situations requiring report to officer.
The owner of a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog shall notify the dog control officer within 24 hours if the dog is on the loose, is unconfined, has attacked a human, has died, or has been sold or donated. If the dog has been sold or donated, the owner shall provide the dog control officer with the name, address and telephone number of the new owner of the dog.
Sec. 14-53. - Moving to or from this jurisdiction.
The owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog shall notify the dog control officer if the owner is moving from the dog control officer's jurisdiction. The owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog who is a new resident of the state shall register the dog as required in this article within 30 days after becoming a resident. The owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog who moves from one jurisdiction to another within the state shall register the dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog in the new jurisdiction within ten days after becoming a resident.
Sec. 14-54. - Possession without certificate; keeping in violation of conditions of certificate.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for an owner to have or possess within the city a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog without a certificate of registration.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for an owner of a dangerous dog to permit the dog to be outside a proper enclosure unless the dog is muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash and is under the physical restraint of a responsible person. The muzzle shall be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration but will prevent it from biting any person.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for an owner of a potentially dangerous dog to permit the dog to be outside a proper enclosure unless the dog is restrained by a substantial chain or leash and is under the restraint of a responsible person.
Sec. 14-55. - Confiscation; notice, redemption, disposition.
(a)
A dangerous dog shall be immediately confiscated by the dog control officer or by a law enforcement officer or by another person authorized by the dog control officer if the:
(1)
Owner of the dog does not secure the liability insurance or bond required by section 14-49;
(2)
Dog is not validly registered as required by section 14-48;
(3)
Dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure; or
(4)
Dog is outside a proper enclosure in violation of section 14-54.
(b)
A potentially dangerous dog shall be confiscated in the same manner as a dangerous dog if the dog is:
(1)
Not validly registered as required by section 14-48;
(2)
Not maintained in a proper enclosure; or
(3)
Outside a proper enclosure in violation of section 14-54.
(c)
Any dog that has been confiscated under the provisions of subsection (a) or (b) of this section shall be returned to its owner upon the owner's compliance with the provisions of this article and upon payment of reasonable confiscation cost as fixed by the fee schedule approved by the governing authority and as the schedule is amended. Notice of confiscation under this article shall be given to the owner in writing by mail at his last known address. The notice shall state that if the owner has not complied with the provisions of this article within 20 days from the date shown on the notice, the dog shall be destroyed in an expeditious and a humane manner; however, no dog shall be destroyed under this section unless it has been held a full 20 days exclusive of the date shown on the notice.
Sec. 14-56. - Authority of dog control officer.
A dog control officer is authorized to make whatever inquiry is deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this article. The dog control officer shall cooperate with other dog control officers and law enforcement agencies of other local governments in enforcing the provisions of this article and the laws of the state.
Sec. 14-57. - Construction of provisions.
(a)
The provisions of this article are in addition to and supplementary of any existing law of the state and are to be construed to be consistent with state law.
(b)
It is the intention of this article to at least meet the minimum standards and requirements for the control of dangerous dogs and potentially dangerous dogs in accordance with the Official Code of Georgia, and this article shall be construed to be amended by operation of law at any section where this article does not meet that minimum standard of the state law.
Sec. 14-58. - Liability for damages.
It is the intent of the city council that the owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog shall be solely liable for any injury to or death of a person caused by such dog. Under no circumstances shall the city or any employee or official of the city who enforces or fails to enforce the provisions of this article be held liable for any damages to any person who suffers an injury inflicted by a dog that has been identified as being a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog, or by a dog that has been reported to the proper authorities as being a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog, or by a dog that the city has failed to identify as a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog, or by a dog which has been identified as being a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog but has not been kept or restrained in the manner described in section 14-48, or by a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog whose owner has not maintained insurance coverage or a surety bond as required in section 14-49.
