Chapter 46 - HEALTH AND SANITATION[1]

Sec. 46-1. - State and county regulations adopted.
There are hereby adopted for the purpose of securing the public health and welfare, the following regulations, laws and statutes, as amended, and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this section, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the city; provided, however, that should the provisions thereof conflict with any provisions of this Code, the more restrictive provisions shall take precedence and be controlling:
(1)
Health and sanitation. Pursuant to the first sentence of this section, the following portions of the state code are hereby adopted: administration and enforcement, O.C.G.A. § 31-5-1 et seq.; hospitalization for tuberculosis, O.C.G.A. § 31-14-1 et seq.; tourist courts, O.C.G.A. § 31-28-1 et seq.; control of hazardous conditions, preventable diseases and metabolic disorders, O.C.G.A. § 31-12-1 et seq.; radiation control, O.C.G.A. § 31-13-1 et seq.; practice of midwifery, O.C.G.A. § 31-26-1 et seq.; control of venereal disease, O.C.G.A. § 31-17-1 et seq.; dead bodies, O.C.G.A. § 31-21-1 et seq.; water resources, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-1 et seq.; and prevention and control of air pollution, O.C.G.A. § 12-9-1 et seq.
(2)
Food and food handlers. Pursuant to the first sentence of this section, there is hereby adopted all of the state laws, statutes, rules and regulations, and all of the rules and regulations of the county board of health, relative to food, food handlers and food service establishments.
(3)
Milk and milk products. Pursuant to the first sentence of this section, there is hereby adopted all of the state laws, statutes, rules and regulations, and all of the rules and regulations of the county board of health, relative to milk and milk products.
(Code 1982, § 11-1)
State Law reference— Milk and milk products, O.C.G.A. § 26-2-230 et seq.; food service establishments, O.C.G.A. § 26-2-370 et seq.
Sec. 46-2. - Health certificate required in certain occupations.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or work at or be permitted to work at or engage in the occupation of cleaning, pressing or washing clothes, or be employed in or work as an employee in any restaurant, hotel, boardinghouse, grocery store, meat market, drugstore, soda fountain or any other place where food or drink is prepared, cooked, mixed, baked, exposed, bottled, packed, handled, stored, manufactured, sold or offered for sale, without first submitting to a physical examination by a reputable physician practicing medicine in the county, and receiving from such physician a written certificate certifying to such physical examination and declaring such person to be free from all infectious or communicable diseases, which certificate shall be valid for the period of six months after the date of the certificate and for no longer.
(Code 1982, § 11-2)
Sec. 46-3. - Sanitary nuisances.
The following acts or conditions shall constitute nuisances in the city and may be abated in the same manner as provided in sections 46-11 through 46-13:
(1)
The keeping of any substance or thing of any kind whatsoever which is dangerous, detrimental to health or likely to spread disease.
(2)
Any factory, yard, building or structure of any kind, including any residence, soap factory, stable, cattle yard or shed, barn, packinghouse, hatchery, or poultry or egg store, any of which shall have become nauseous, foul or offensive and thereby injurious to the health of the community.
(3)
The accumulation on private property of the contents of or the substance from any sink, privy or cesspool, or of manure, ashes, garbage, offal, rubbish or dead animals, which accumulations are offensive to human beings or detrimental to health.
(4)
The maintenance of any building, or portion thereof, in an unsanitary condition due to its basement or cellar being damp or wet or containing stagnant water; the presence therein of sewer gas; its infection with disease; or any other matter or thing which makes it an actual or potential source of sickness or danger to the public health or renders it in any way unfit for human habitation.
(5)
The neglect of any building, or portion thereof, whether completely or partially constructed, or any vacant lot, so that it becomes a place for the habitation of animals, wild or domestic, which are offensive, disease bearing or otherwise objectionable or hazardous to health or safety.
(6)
The keeping and maintenance of any building that is not sufficiently covered to prevent mosquitoes, gnats or any other insects or animals from hibernating or living in such an incomplete and uncovered structure, so as to become a nuisance or other hazard to other property owners or any citizen of the city.
(7)
The owning or maintenance of any structure that, due to its condition, rain accumulates and remains on or in such structure and thereby impairs the health of any citizen of the city.
(Code 1982, § 11-3)
State Law reference— Nuisances generally, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.; cities, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
Sec. 46-4. - Use of water at service stations restricted.
It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any filling station, garage or other business where the washing of automobiles, trucks and other vehicles is carried on, to create a nuisance by allowing water to flow from the property on which such business is conducted onto adjacent property, or to cause such water to be discharged into the city streets in such a manner that such water might puddle and create any menace to health or damage to property.
(Code 1982, § 11-4)
Sec. 46-5. - Mosquito control—Generally.
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any premises owned or controlled by such person within the city, either vacant or improved, to become or be a place where mosquitoes might breed or hibernate.
(Code 1982, § 11-5)
Sec. 46-6. - Mosquito control—Articles capable of holding water.
It shall be unlawful for any person on any premises in the city-owned by such person or controlled by rent, lease or otherwise, to have, maintain or permit any tub, pan, dish, bucket or other vessel or container, or any automobile tire or automobile part, any portion of which article is capable of holding water or exposed so that it can catch and hold water.
(Code 1982, § 11-6)
Sec. 46-7. - Spitting.
It shall be unlawful for any person to expectorate or spit upon any paved sidewalk or the wall or floor of any public building.
(Code 1982, § 11-7)
Sec. 46-8. - Uncovered and open wells.
All wells not properly covered on enclosed or unenclosed lots in the city are hereby declared nuisances, and it shall be unlawful for any person to have an uncovered well on such person's premises or to refuse or neglect to properly protect all persons and animals from the danger of any open well.
(Code 1982, § 11-8)
Sec. 46-9. - Mixing chemicals on trucks.
No chemicals shall be mixed on trucks by or with the use of standpipes within the city.
(Code 1982, § 11-9)
Sec. 46-10. - Littering.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sweep, throw, drop, litter or move any dirt, filth, paper, bottle, can, garbage or trash of any kind upon any street, sidewalk or other public place, or upon the property of another, without the consent of the owner or lawful occupant of the property.
(Code 1982, § 11-10)
Cross reference— Solid waste, § 90-261 et seq.
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.
Sec. 46-11. - Weeds, rubbish, etc., on private property; removal required; punishment for violation.
(a)
Every person, whether owner, tenant, agent or employee, owning, holding or occupying property in the city shall at all times maintain such property, whether a vacant lot or otherwise, in a clean and sanitary condition, keeping all weeds, grass and undergrowth on such property cut and keeping all waste material, dead animals, trash and rubbish of every kind cleaned off of such property.
(b)
If any such person shall fail or refuse to cut and remove weeds, grass and undergrowth, or fail or refuse to clean up all such waste from such property within ten days after notice by an official or employee of the city, such person shall be punished as provided in section 1-12 of this Code.
(c)
The growth of grass, weeds or undergrowth to a height in excess of 18 inches above the ground shall be deemed a violation of this section.
(Code 1982, § 11-11)
Sec. 46-12. - Nuisance declared.
Any person who permits or allows any weeds, undergrowth, rubbish, filth, dead animal or any other offensive matter, refuse material or other substance to remain on or upon any premises in the city in such a condition that it provides a breeding place for flies, a feeding place or sanctuary for rats or other vermin or a source of obnoxious odors shall be deemed to have created a nuisance.
(Code 1982, § 11-12)
Sec. 46-13. - Nuisance abatement by city.
If the owner of any property shall refuse or fail to comply with the provisions of section 40-11 after ten days' written notice addressed to the owner of such property and delivered to the property by a city official or employee, the city shall remove the offensive matter and/or cut such weeds and undergrowth on the property. Such work shall be done at the expense of the owner of the property. Upon completion of such work, execution shall be issued by the city clerk against the owner and the property for such expense and all costs. The person returning such property for taxation in the city, or the person against whom such property may be assessed if there has been no return of such property by the owner, shall be deemed to be the true owner of such property. Such execution shall issue and be enforced as provided by the Charter or by law.
(Code 1982, § 11-13)
State Law reference— Abatement authority of municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
Sec. 46-14. - Junked and dismantled automobiles and discarded personal property—Maximum storage period.
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any furniture, appliance, machinery or equipment, including motor vehicles which are either in a wholly or partially rusted, wrecked, junked, dismantled or inoperative condition to remain on the premises of any dwelling, dwelling unit, place of business or vacant lot for a period in excess of 30 days.
(Code 1982, § 11-14)
Sec. 46-15. - Junked and dismantled automobiles and discarded personal property—Duty of owners, occupants and inhabitants.
It shall be the duty of owners, occupants and inhabitants of any building, dwelling or dwelling unit to keep the exterior of such building, dwelling or dwelling unit, including its premises, yards, lawns, courts and alleys, clean, clear and free of any accumulation or deposit of the items set forth in section 46-14; provided, the owner of a dwelling or building containing two or more dwelling units, tenants or occupants shall be responsible for maintaining the shared or public area of the dwelling or building and premises thereof. The same duty under this section shall rest upon the owner of any vacant lot.
(Code 1982, § 11-15)
Sec. 46-16. - Junked and dismantled automobiles and discarded personal property—Exemptions.
Sections 46-14 and 46-15 shall not apply to any person who holds a valid business license for dealing in the items set forth in section 46-14 in the condition referred to in such section, provided such business is not operated in an unlawful manner.
(Code 1982, § 11-16)
Sec. 46-17. - Junked and dismantled automobiles and discarded personal property—Abatement.
Conditions prohibited by section 46-14 may be abated by the city as provided in section 46-13.
(Code 1982, § 11-17)
Sec. 46-18. - Toilet facilities and connection to public sewer required.
The owner of any house, building or other property used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose, situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is or may be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is hereby required, at such person's expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this Code, within 90 days after the date of official notice to do so, provided that such public sewer is within 200 feet of the property line.
(Code 1982, § 11-18)
Cross reference— Sewers, § 90-221 et seq.
Sec. 46-19. - Private sewage disposal systems.
(a)
Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the provisions of section 46-18, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
(b)
Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit issued by the director of utilities and any required county board of health permit.
(c)
All private sewage disposal systems shall be installed and completed to the satisfaction of the director of utilities. The director of utilities shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the holder of the permit shall notify the director of utilities when the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 72 hours of the receipt of notice for such inspection by the director of utilities.
(d)
The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all standards of the state department of human resources. No private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities shall be installed where the area of the lot is less than 15,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet or to the surface.
(e)
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in section 46-18, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this Code, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(f)
The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city utility commission.
(g)
No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the county board of health.
(h)
When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected to such public sewer within 90 days; and the private sewage disposal system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bankrun gravel or dirt.
(Code 1982, § 11-19)
