Chapter 46 - HEALTH AND SANITATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Animals, ch. 14; buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 34; floods, ch. 42; solid waste, ch. 70; utilities, ch. 94.
State Law reference— Promulgation of rules, regulations and standards by state department of human resources and county boards of health, O.C.G.A. § 26-2-373; health generally, O.C.G.A. § 31-1-1 et seq.; power of county board of health to adopt and enforce rules and regulations, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-4(a)(4); regulations for septic tanks or individual sewerage management systems in unincorporated areas, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.1; power of county board of health to adopt rules and regulations of local application, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-6; authority to provide public health facilities and services, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 46-1—46-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - NO SMOKING POLICY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Smoking in public places, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-2.

Sec. 46-31. - Findings.
(a)
The United States Surgeon General has stated that smoking of cigarettes and tobacco products is the leading cause of premature death and disability in the United States.
(b)
Medical evidence confirms that smoking of tobacco can be hazardous to the health of the smoker and nonsmoker.
(c)
Medical research has confirmed that nonsmokers with chronic heart or lung disease can experience distress when exposed to sufficient concentrations of secondhand smoke.
(d)
Many allergic individuals and healthy nonsmokers report discomfort when exposed to secondhand smoke.
(e)
Recent medical studies provide sufficient evidence that long-term exposure to involuntary smoking may increase a nonsmoker's risk of developing serious lung disease.
(f)
The city council finds that it is in the best interest of the health, welfare and safety of the city and its citizens to:
(1)
Provide a healthy, comfortable and productive working environment for its employees in the city's public buildings and facilities serving the public as well as motor vehicles;
(2)
Protect nonsmokers;
(3)
Help employees to adjust to restrictions on smoking; and
(4)
Prohibit smoking of cigarettes and other tobacco products in any city-owned or -leased enclosed building space as well as motor vehicles occupied by at least one nonsmoker.
(Ord. of 8-23-1993, § 1)
Sec. 46-32. - Smoking limitations.
(a)
The smoking of cigarettes or other products by whatever named known or called now or in the future is allowed in the designated area of city hall.
(b)
The use of tobacco products in any form is prohibited in any motor vehicle occupied by at least one nonsmoker, owned or leased by the city and any of its departments, agencies, boards, authorities and commissions. For purposes of this section, the term "nonsmoker" shall mean any individual who declares that he does not smoke cigarettes or other tobacco products or has discontinued the smoking of cigarettes or other tobacco products.
(Ord. of 8-23-1993, § 2; Ord. of 3-14-1994, § 1; Ord. No. 2000-27, § 1, 10-27-00)
Sec. 46-33. - Conflict.
The provisions of section 46-32 will in no instance conflict with any existing or future regulations established for fire, health or safety reasons.
(Ord. of 8-23-1993, § 3)
Sec. 46-34. - Implementation.
The city manager is authorized and directed to distribute to all employees of the city the findings contained in this article and to provide for its implementation as follows:
(1)
All departments, agencies, authorities, boards, commissions and elected officers will give this article wide distribution to all employees.
(2)
All prospective new city employees will be informed of this no smoking policy before they are hired.
(3)
Signs will be placed in all appropriate spaces and city buildings indicating that smoking is not allowed, with such signs to be uniform in language and color.
(Ord. of 8-23-1993, § 4)
Sec. 46-35. - Employees' responsibilities.
All employees of the city share in the responsibility for adhering to and enforcing this article.
(Ord. of 8-23-1993, § 5)
Sec. 46-36. - Violations; penalties.
(a)
Any violations of section 46-32 or conflict concerning its implementation should be brought to the attention of appropriate supervisory personnel. In all cases, the right of a nonsmoker to protect his health and comfort will take precedence over an employee's or nonemployee's desire to smoke.
(b)
Violations of this article by an employee may subject the employee to appropriate disciplinary action under the provisions of the city personnel regulations.
(c)
Any nonemployee of the city who continues to violate the provisions of section 46-32 after receiving an oral request to cease smoking of the cigarette or tobacco material from authorized personnel of any department, agency, board, authority or commission with offices located in the enclosed building or having responsibility for the motor vehicle shall be subject to citation to the municipal court of the city and upon adjudication of guilt may be fined as provided in Charter section 4.13. The city manager in implementing the provisions of this article shall designate authorized personnel in each department, agency, board, authority or commission to make such oral requests as provided in this subsection.
(Ord. of 8-23-1993, § 6)
