Chapter 6 - ADVERTISING[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 6-1—6-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SIGNS[2]

Sec. 6-31. - Generally.
(a)
Signs may be erected in the city for the purpose of displaying the business name or other advertising of the firm or business on whose premises the sign is located, provided such sign meets the regulations provided for by this article. A sign permit must be obtained from the city building inspector prior to the installation or erection of any permanent sign. A sign permit is also required where permanent signs are painted on the building for the purpose of displaying the firm or business name, or other advertising as provided for by this article.
(b)
No sign erected for any purpose shall be erected upon, or extended over or onto, any public property (right-of-way), unless it is specifically provided for by this article. A sign, banners, flags, etc., which are customarily used to advertise conventions, festivals, etc., or that may be a part of a civic or community project may be erected on public or private property, provided permission is obtained from the owner of such property. A sign identifying a church shall be allowed in any district where churches are allowed, provided the sign is located on the same property on which the church is located, and the sign and placement thereof shall be approved by the planning commission prior to the erection of the sign. No permit fee shall be charged for church signs.
(c)
Portable signs shall not be allowed within any district of the city.
(d)
Flashing signs shall be prohibited in any district of the city.
(e)
The provisions of this article shall not apply to the following:
(1)
Traffic and other municipal signs, such as railroad crossing signs, legal notices and such temporary emergency signs as may be authorized by the city administrator.
(2)
Signs of public utility companies indicating danger, or which serve as an aid to public safety, or which show the location of underground facilities or public telephones.
(3)
The prohibition of flashing lights shall not include public service information, such as time, date, temperature or similar information.
(4)
Directional, information or public service signs, including signs pertaining to public utilities, not exceeding four square feet in area, erected for the convenience of the public, such as signs identifying entrances, exits, parking or no parking areas, restrooms, public telephones, walkways and similar facilities.
(5)
Signs located on the interior, or within an enclosed lobby or court, of any building, or group of buildings, which signs are designed and located to be viewed exclusively by patrons of such uses.
(6)
No trespassing signs, or other such signs regulating the use of property, such as no hunting, no fishing, etc., of no more than two square feet in area.
(7)
Residential development identification structures at major entrances designed to identify a residential subdivision or planned unit development and containing no commercial advertisement. Such structures must be approved by the planning commission.
(8)
Construction signs identifying the architects, engineers, contractors or other individuals or firms involved with the construction of a building or facility, provided the total area of such signs do not exceed 32 square feet. Such signs shall be confined to the site of the construction and shall be removed within three days of project occupancy.
(9)
Memorial signs or tablets and names of buildings and dates of erection when cut into any masonry surface or inlaid so as to be part of the building or when constructed of any bronze or other noncombustible material.
(10)
Signs of historical societies containing no advertising and not more than five square feet in area.
(11)
Marquees of movie theaters which show no obscene or indecent movies. Such marquees may have changeable letters or copy.
(12)
Public signs, or other signs incidental thereto, for identification, information or directional purposes erected or required by governmental bodies.
(Code 1982, § 5-110)
Sec. 6-32. - R-1 and R-2 Residential Districts.
In R-1 and R-2 Residential Districts, a sign not over two square feet in area may be used to advertise a permitted home occupation, provided the sign is either attached, or immediately adjacent, to the dwelling. Signs in residential areas shall not be illuminated.
(Code 1982, § 5-110.1)
Sec. 6-33. - NS-1 and NS-2 Neighborhood Shopping Districts.
Permanent signs erected, painted or otherwise constructed in NS-1 and NS-2 Neighborhood Shopping Districts shall be limited as follows:
(1)
The area of the sign shall not exceed ten percent of the area of the front of the building or establishment, measured at the front building line. Stores or establishments having offices above the ground floor shall not include the area of the front of such offices in the area measurement.
(2)
Only one sign shall be permitted on the front of any store or business establishment.
(3)
Where a business is located on a corner, an additional sign of equal size will be permitted on the sides of the building.
(4)
The length of the sign shall not exceed 80 percent of the length of the store's or business establishment's front dimension.
(5)
The sign shall be parallel to the face or sides of the building and shall not extend over 18 inches from the face or sides of the building.
(6)
Lighting for signs shall be in white only and shall be designed so as to designate the name of the place of business or products sold by the business, or other advertisement in a twofold manner, so that it shall serve the purpose for both day and nighttime use.
(7)
Signs may be erected on a pole away from the building, subject to the approval of the building inspector, provided the front of the building is sufficiently set back from the front property line and no part of the sign extends over public property and is not attached to the building. Pole-mounted signs may be erected in addition to the signs allowed to be erected parallel to the face of the building as provided in subsection (5) of this section; however, no more than one pole-mounted sign per lot frontage is permitted.
(8)
Projecting signs shall be mounted perpendicular to a building front, with a maximum projecting length of five feet, a minimum height of eight feet from ground level, and the maximum total area shall be 20 square feet per parcel.
(9)
Stock signs are permitted. For the purposes of this subsection, the term "stock signs" means signs which are customarily used by an organization to identify a product or location uniformly throughout the organization's service area. Examples of such signs are:
a.
Oil company signs which uniformly identify such service stations;
b.
Signs which identify fast food chain locations; and
c.
Signs which identify chain or franchised motel or hotel locations.
(Code 1982, § 5-110.2; Res. of 9-21-2000)
Sec. 6-34. - C-1 Roadside Business Districts.
Signs are permitted in the C-1 Roadside Business Districts, provided such signs comply with the regulations outlined in sections 6-31 and 6-33; however, signs in C-1 districts may be illuminated in any desired color.
(Code 1982, § 5-110.3)
Sec. 6-35. - C-2 and C-3 General and Central Business Districts.
Signs are permitted in C-2 and C-3 General and Central Business Districts under the same regulations as provided under section 6-34. In addition, pole-mounted signs are allowed in C-2 and C-3 districts with the following restrictions:
(1)
On lots of 150 feet or less, one pole-mounted sign may be erected, subject to the applicable provisions of this article, provided that no pole-mounted sign may exceed 32 square feet in area.
(2)
On lots with 150 feet or more of frontage, pole-mounted signs are allowed under the same provisions as set forth in section 6-34.
(Code 1982, § 5-110.4)
Sec. 6-36. - I-N and I Institutional and Industrial Districts.
Signs are permitted in the I-N and I Institutional and Industrial Districts, provided such signs meet all of the requirements of this section. In addition, off-premises signs may be erected in I-N and I districts, provided that no more than a total of four signs shall be erected on both sides of a street or highway within a space of 600 feet, with not less than 100 feet between such signs. The maximum height of an off-premises sign, not erected on a building, shall be 25 feet above the ground. An off-premises sign erected on a building may be higher than 25 feet above the ground, provided that all portions of such sign are kept within the perimeter of the building, and do not extend more than ten feet above the roofline of the building. The maximum size of any single off-premises sign shall be 400 square feet, inclusive of any border or trim; however, cutouts and extensions may add up to 20 percent of additional sign area. The design and location of all such off-premises advertising signs shall be approved by the planning commission prior to the issuance of a permit from the building inspector for erection of such signs. Any such off-premises advertising sign which has been abandoned for a period of six months, or becomes dilapidated, shall be removed by the owner, upon receipt of a written notice from the building inspector. If the owner of such sign fails to remove the sign within 30 days after receiving written notice, he shall be summoned to the city municipal court for violation of this article. Every off-premises advertising sign shall be set back from the property line or street line the same distance, or a greater distance, than is required in appendix B of this Code for new buildings on the premises.
(Code 1982, § 5-110.5)
Sec. 6-37. - Misleading, fraudulent, obscene, indecent and unsightly signs.
No sign shall be erected or maintained, or be permitted to remain publicly displayed, which is of a misleading, fraudulent, obscene, indecent or unsightly character.
(Code 1982, § 5-111.1)
Sec. 6-38. - Removal of certain signs.
Any sign, painted or otherwise, which no longer advertises a bona fide business conducted, or a product sold, on the premises, or which becomes dilapidated, shall be removed by the owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the building, pole or other structure upon which the sign may be found. Such removal will be within 30 days after receipt of written notification from the building inspector. Failure to comply with such notice within the time specified shall be sufficient cause for the building inspector to have such sign removed, whereas, any and all expenses of the removal shall be paid by the owner of the building, pole or other structure to which the sign is attached. If the owner should fail to make such payment, such amount shall be assessed against the property the same as unpaid taxes. Such sign shall be considered no longer advertising a bona fide business or product when the business or product has been removed from the premises for a period of 120 days.
(Code 1982, § 5-111.2)
Sec. 6-39. - Sound- and noise-making devices and instruments.
It shall be unlawful to use any radio, phonograph, whistle, bell or other sound- or noise-making or transmitting device or instrument in connection with any sign.
(Code 1982, § 5-111.3)
Cross reference— Noise, § 38-31 et seq.
Sec. 6-40. - Political campaign signs.
Political campaign signs announcing the candidates seeking public office, and other data pertinent thereto, shall be allowed any place within the city, as long as such signs are confined to private property, with the permission of the owner of such property, and removed within 14 days after the election or runoff election for which the signs are made. No political campaign signs shall be erected on, or fastened to, any public property.
(Code 1982, § 5-111.4)
Sec. 6-41. - Real estate signs.
A temporary sign advertising the sale, rental or lease of the premises on which the sign is located may be erected without a permit, subject to the following restrictions:
(1)
Signs in a residential district may not exceed eight square feet in area.
(2)
Signs in a shopping or business district may not exceed 32 square feet in area.
(3)
Signs in an institutional or industrial district may not exceed 64 square feet in area.
(4)
Signs may not be illuminated.
(5)
Such signs shall be located on the property which is for sale, rent or lease.
(Code 1982, § 5-111.5)
Sec. 6-42. - Temporary signs advertising special sales.
Temporary signs used for advertising special sales in stores or business establishments are permitted, provided that the gross area of all such signs combined, whether painted on windows, cheesecloth, cardboard or any similar material, shall not exceed 30 percent of the total store front area. Such signs shall not extend more than six inches from the face or side of the building. No temporary sign shall be erected or attached to awnings, marquees or other sidewalk sheds or covers.
(Code 1982, § 5-111.6)
