Chapter 18 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL[2]

Sec. 18-1. - Violation of adopted codes; penalties.
Any owner, builder, contractor or any other person who shall violate, or cause to be violated, any of the provisions of any code adopted in this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and subject to punishment as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1982, § 5-1)
Sec. 18-2. - Fire limits established.
The fire limits of the city are hereby established as that area of the city within districts C-1, C-2, C-3 and I-N as shown and indicated upon the zoning map of the city.
(Code 1982, § 5-2)
Charter reference— Authority to establish fire limits, regulate construction therein, § 29.
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, ch. 42.
State Law reference— Regulation of fire and other hazards, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-1 et seq.
Sec. 18-3. - Building code adopted; amendment procedure.
(a)
There is hereby adopted by the city the Standard Building Code, current edition, with Georgia amendments, as the building code of the city, subject to all amendments adopted by the mayor and city council, and to all conflicting provisions contained in this Code or state law. A certified copy of such code is on file in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
Revisions of, and amendments to, the Standard Building Code may be accepted for use within the city upon consideration thereof and an order to that effect adopted by the mayor and city council, by simple order entered on the minutes of the city. The action of the city in accepting such revisions or amendments to the Standard Building Code from time to time by order on its minutes shall not preclude adoption of revisions or amendments by ordinance and incorporation in this Code by reference.
(Code 1982, § 5-3)
State Law reference— State minimum standard building code, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20.
Sec. 18-4. - Amendments to building code.
The building code is hereby amended as follows:
Section 104. Section 104 is hereby amended as follows:
104.6.2 Whenever the building official shall find any building or structure, or portion thereof, to be unsafe, as defined in this section, he shall, in accordance with established procedure for legal notices, give the owner, agent or person in control of such building or structure written notice, stating the defects thereof. This notice shall require the owner, within 90 days from the date of notice, either to complete specified repairs or improvements, or demolish and remove the building or structure, or portion thereof.
(Code 1982, § 5-3.1)
Sec. 18-5. - Inspectors.
Wherever powers and duties are prescribed in this chapter for an electrical inspector, gas inspector, air conditioning, heating or ventilation inspector, or plumbing inspector, such powers and duties shall apply to the director of utilities or his designees, unless specifically otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Code 1982, § 5-4)
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-91 et seq.
Sec. 18-6. - Permit fees.
(a)
The building code is hereby amended as to permit fees to provide as determined by the mayor and city council.
(b)
Upon application prior to the expiration of any building permit previously issued, such permit may be extended for a period not to exceed six months from the date of its original expiration upon the payment of one-half of the permit fees prescribed in subsection (a) of this section.
(c)
No excavation, ditching or demolition of any lot or structure shall be allowed within the city without a permit issued by the city clerk, upon written application and a payment of a fee set by the mayor and city council.
(Code 1982, § 5-5)
Sec. 18-7. - Permit required to move buildings and structures.
No person shall utilize the streets and highways within the city for movement or passage of any building or other structure without a written permit authorizing such movement.
(Code 1982, § 5-6)
Sec. 18-8. - Applications for building moving permits; fees.
Any person desiring to move any building or other structure through or over any street or highway within the city shall apply, in writing, to the city clerk for a permit, upon such form as the clerk may prescribe, and shall pay therewith a permit per structure, or in lieu thereof, an annual permit fee, which annual permit shall expire 12 months from the date of issuance of such permit. The amounts of such fees shall be as set by the mayor and city council.
(Code 1982, § 5-7)
Sec. 18-9. - Issuance of building moving permits; restrictions and conditions.
All building moving permits shall be issued with such restrictions regarding routes and hours of movement as the chief of police may prescribe and upon the express condition that holders of such permits shall agree to indemnify the city and the utilities commission for any actual labor and equipment costs or any damages suffered to streets, utilities or other public property.
(Code 1982, § 5-8)
Sec. 18-10. - Time limit for submission of building moving permit application; duration; transferability.
All applications for building moving permits shall be submitted to the city clerk at least 48 hours prior to the proposed movement and, upon issuance, shall be valid for a period of seven days from the date of issuance, and shall not be transferable.
(Code 1982, § 5-9)
Sec. 18-11. - Scope of building moving permit.
Each building moving permit, other than an annual permit, shall authorize the movement of only one structure.
(Code 1982, § 5-10)
Secs. 18-12—18-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ELECTRICITY[3]
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 18-41. - Code adopted; amendment procedure.
(a)
There is hereby adopted by the city the National Electrical Code, current edition, with Georgia amendments, as the electrical code of the city, subject to all amendments adopted by the mayor and city council, and to all conflicting provisions contained in this Code or state law. A certified copy of such code is on file in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
Revisions of and amendments to the National Electrical Code may be accepted for use within the city upon consideration thereof and order to that effect adopted by the mayor and city council, by simple order entered on the minutes of the city. The action of the city in accepting such revisions or amendments to the National Electrical Code from time to time by order on its minutes shall not preclude adoption of revisions or amendments by ordinance and incorporation in this Code by reference.
(c)
All electrical construction and all material and appliances used in connection with the installation, maintenance and operation of electrical wiring, apparatus or equipment for lights, heat or power inside the city shall conform to such special rules and regulations as may be embodied in this article or other ordinances of the city, and to the rules and regulations as embodied in the National Electrical Code for the installation of wiring and apparatus for electrical purposes as established or amended, and such rules and regulations are hereby adopted and approved as a part of this article and are incorporated by reference as fully as if set out at length in this article.
(Code 1982, § 5-20)
State Law reference— State electrical code, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20.
Sec. 18-42. - Amendments to code.
The electrical code adopted in this article is hereby amended and changed in the following respects. (Cited sections of the 1962 or later editions of the National Electrical Code shall be construed to refer to analogous sections of the current or revised editions).
(1)
Article 110. Article 110 is hereby amended by adding the following sections:
No meters shall be installed above the ground floor in any building, except by special permission.
All service switches shall be mounted on a substantial wall of boards, not less than five feet from floor. All meters shall be six feet from the dial of the meter from the floor or ground.
Concentric cable or entrance cable will be permitted only for service in houses and shall not be used as branch or subfeeder, except for ranges and water heaters.
All feeder wires and branch circuits supplying current for elevators shall be computed on the basis of a two percent drop in voltage based on starting current of elevator motors having the same current characteristics which are supplied from one main feeder; such feeders may be computed on a two percent drop in voltage based on 75 percent of the combined starting current of all motors supplied by such feeder drops to be taken at the controller. The minimum size of the conductors to any individual elevator motor circuit shall be based on the starting current of the motor and in accordance with the code rating of the conductor.
Open wiring on insulators or racks shall not be permitted in or on buildings, except by special permission.
Attic fans and ventilating fans over 16 inches shall be equipped with a safety link or other approved device in the air stream causing the current to be disconnected or to close off the air stream when the temperature rises above 165 degrees Fahrenheit; the location of the control to meet with the approval of the department or agency of the city having jurisdiction.
Any electrical wiring in public buildings which shall be installed shall be encased in metal conduits. In all nonpublic one- and two-story wood frame construction outside the fire limits, the use of copper type NM plastic-covered, grounded Romex is permitted. Aluminum service entrance cable may be used as needed for panels in multiple unit apartment structures of wood frame one- or two-story construction, provided such cable has a fuse disconnect at the meter location.
It shall be unlawful for any person to bridge a fuse gap in an ungrounded conductor in any manner whereby the conductor protected by such gap is fused above its rated capacity.
All residents requiring six-branch circuits with provision for an electric range and dryer or water heater will require a 100-amp main. Only residences which have no provisions for an electric range, dryer or water heater will be accepted for 60-amp and No. 6 wire.
No breakers for a range will be installed if, in the opinion of the inspector, a main and range panel can be installed.
Each ranch-type house will have to be inspected as to which way to connect service wires to the main. In most cases, conduit will extend through the roof at the nearest point to the utility supply pole. Such conduit will be of from 1½-inch rigid up to four inches, with an approved weather head, and extending from 12 to 30 inches above the roof, with the height depending upon the location and required clearance.
All mains must be encased in rigid conduit to the meter for any and all services, and no mains will be smaller than No. 6 wire and the neutral will be so marked by color (white).
All nonmetallic sheathed cable shall be of the grounding type.
Boxes used at outlets for receptacles and lighting fixtures shall be designed for such purpose and shall be of the grounding type.
(2)
Article 210. Article 210 is amended as follows:
The maximum wattage permitted on No. 12 wire branch circuits shall be 1,500 watts. On branch circuits where the feed is over 100 feet to the first light, it shall be necessary to increase to the next larger size wire. These requirements apply to 110-volt branch circuits.
In establishments used as beauty parlors, all branch circuits supplying current for receptacle outlets shall be on a size No. 12 or larger. No receptacle will be allowed on a circuit supplying current for ceiling or bracket outlets. Only two receptacle outlets shall be allowed on one circuit. All receptacles shall be not less than 15-amp capacity and of single gauge type.
(3)
Article 230. Article 230 is hereby amended by adding the following sections:
Service entrance wires in all buildings shall be run in rigid conduits. Service conduits are to be continuous from the point where the utility company's wires attach to building to meter [sic] and shall have not less than three feet of wire left at the outer end of service conduits.
All services for ranch type houses, or low roofs where the service wire is less than ten feet, must extend above the roof 12 inches or more, depending upon the type of service wire that is to be used.
All service entrance wires shall be brought out at the nearest point of accessibility to the utilities' service drop, except by special permission of the authority enforcing this code.
All service entrances shall terminate in approved type fittings and be securely anchored so as to hold the service drop.
Not more than two service entrances shall be run from any one service drop, except by permission of authority enforcing this code.
Each separately metered installation of more than two branch circuits shall be controlled by an approved type safety switch, with fuses no larger than the capacity of the service wires. Meter service switches which control four or more circuits shall be not less than three-wire, 60-amp capacity. On all buildings or houses that require four or more circuits, the service shall be of three wires of a size not less than No. 6.
All service entrances supplying five or more meters shall be provided with a main line breaker or switch.
On installations requiring service switches larger than 400-amp capacity, an approved circuit breaker shall be installed.
All service wires shall be of a size or capacity, within ten percent, to carry the full load rating of the service switch. Example: For a 100-amp service switch, the wire shall have a capacity of 90 amps.
No service or main switch shall be allowed in kitchens, closets, bedrooms, bathrooms, under stairs or any other place that is not accessible at all times. All service or main switches shall be located on the ground or street level, if practical; if located elsewhere, an approved circuit breaker shall be used, controlled by an approved pushbutton on an accessible location. Service switches shall be enclosed, and if more than 600 volts enter the building, they shall be in a fireproof room.
Where more than one meter or service switch is to be installed in the same location, each meter or switch shall be designated by a metal stamp or painted on the switch to show plainly the section or part of the building that it controls.
In all cases requiring the relocation of service entrances, it shall be the duty of the contractor to supply the customer with a temporary jumper, pending final inspection.
The customer will supply and install the attachment on the structure to which the utility commission will affix the service drop. The attachment will be made of a material of sufficient strength and anchored to the structure so as to support a pulling load of a minimum of 600 pounds. It will be the responsibility of the customer to maintain the attachment for the duration of the service. The customer will also assume all liability for any damages caused by or from a failure of the attachment.
(4)
Article 250. Article 250 is hereby amended by adding the following section:
No service or equipment ground shall be smaller than No. 6 wire. The service ground shall, as near as practical, run directly from the main entrance panel to a cold water pipe system or a driven ground electrode in compliance with the National Electrical Code and terminate in an approved ground clamp. Connections at both ends of the ground shall be accessible, and when a breaker is used for a range, an additional ground is required at the breaker.
(5)
Article 310. Article 310 is hereby amended by adding the following sections:
Where service is run underground to a building, the service wires shall be of lead covered cable or other approved type cable in rigid conduit or approved duct. Cables may be spliced in approved type cable boxes or manholes. Approved type fittings shall be used on the outer end of service conduits. Services over 600 volts shall terminate in an approved type pot head.
Lead covered cable, Romex or B.X. shall not be used under plaster, or masonry or concrete walls or run exposed on outside walls or surfaces. Only metallic tubing or conduit shall be used on walls of masonry or concrete. New white type U.F. is approved.
All public buildings, such as churches, theaters, hotels, auditoriums, lodge rooms, hospitals, schools or any building that is used for the purpose of public assembly shall be wired in rigid conduit or metallic tubing. Romex, lead cable, B.X. or open wiring shall not be permitted in this type of building.
Nonmetallic surface extensions shall not be permitted.
(6)
Article 346. Article 346 is hereby amended by adding the following sections:
In trapped conduit runs, conductors approved for wet locations shall be used.
In order to form a continuous bond on all conduit systems where conduits enter junction boxes, panels or switches, they shall be secured by means of a locknut on each side of the metal, and the conduit shall be provided with an approved type of bushing unless fittings with screw hubs are used.
Conduit run exposed on concrete or masonry walls or ceilings must be anchored by means of machine screw type of expansion shields or other approved methods. Wood screws used with lead shields, wood pegs or plugs will not be approved. Conduit supports or straps are to be placed so as to ensure a rigid mechanical job and shall be placed at not more than five-foot intervals, except by permission of the authority enforcing this code.
Running threads shall not be permitted.
Threadless fittings shall not be permitted for outdoor use, except of the waterproof type.
All electric light, heat or power wires installed in buildings, except private dwellings, within the fire limits shall be installed in approved rigid steel or iron conduits, and such work shall be made to conform in every respect to the rules and regulations of the American Insurance Association as they are now established or may hereafter be amended governing rigid conduit wiring; no permit shall be issued under any circumstances for electrical wiring within the fire limits without the use of rigid conduits, except as above provided.
(7)
Article 348. Article 348 is hereby amended by adding the following:
Electrical metallic tubing will not be approved for services outdoors, wet or moist locations underground or where subject to excessive continuous vibration. All fittings and couplings shall be of an approved type.
(8)
Article 350. Article 350 is hereby amended by adding the following section:
Flexible metal conduit will be permitted when not feasible to use rigid conduit or electrical metal tubing.
(9)
Article 370. Article 370 is hereby amended by adding the following:
All ceiling outlets and bracket outlets in new construction, where new plastering is to be installed, shall be furnished with a plaster ring to flush with the plaster, if required.
(10)
Article 380. Article 380 is hereby amended by adding the following section:
All knife switches shall be of the enclosed safety type and shall not be used as junction boxes. All single pole switches shall be of the push or tumbler type, mounted in an approved metal box or fittings and have a rating of not less than ten-amp, 125 volts or five-amp, 250 volts. All convenient outlets are to be mounted in metal boxes or fittings and shall be of the T-slot type.
(11)
Article 422. Article 422 is hereby amended by adding the following sections:
All ceiling fan outlets are to have support of not less than three-quarter-inch standard pipe, threaded, and shall support a weight of not less than 150 pounds. Where wood supports are used they shall not be less than four inches by four inches and shall support a weight of not less than 150 pounds.
No permanent wave machine shall be connected to any circuit wires smaller than No. 10. Each permanent wave machine shall be on a separate circuit and the frame permanently grounded.
Electric refrigerators shall be served by a separate circuit in residences and apartments where refrigerators are of the portable type with not larger than a one-quarter horsepower motor.
Each oil burner or stoker shall be on a circuit serving only the oil burner or stoker motor and equipment. A fusible safety switch shall be installed ahead of each oil burner or stoker motor, or gas furnace with motor.
All motor wiring, except in residences, shall be in rigid conduit or metallic tubing. All motors 30 horsepower and larger shall have a reduced voltage or auto starter. No motor larger than 25 horsepower will be allowed to start across the line. The above does not apply to special starting equipment furnished with slip ring or synchronous motors. All motor wiring is to be continuous to the motor frame or box mounted on the motor, except by permission of the authority enforcing this code.
Wires of motor circuits and wires connecting the secondary windings of slip ring motors to their control equipment shall not occupy the same conduit. Wires used for remote control equipment shall not occupy conduits which contain wires other than motor wires that they control. Resistance grids shall have power ventilated covers, or be protected by other approved means unless control equipment is installed in a room used only for the motor and its control equipment.
All motors one-third horsepower or larger shall be wired on separate fuse circuits. The disconnect switch shall be located in the same room or enclosure with the motor or in sight of the motor. All motors one-third horsepower and larger shall be equipped with thermal cutouts, thermal relay or equivalent protection. This rule applies to all refrigeration, stoker, oil burner and attic fan motors.
(12)
Article 450. Article 450 is hereby amended by adding the following section:
All bell and low voltage transformers for any use shall be separately fused at the point of connection to the line, and low voltage wiring shall be an approved type.
(13)
Article 500. Article 500 is hereby amended by adding the following section:
All laundry or dry cleaning plants or similar places shall be wired in conduits and fittings approved for this type of work. This rule applies to any and all places that use chemicals or solvents or any material that is considered inflammable or explosive.
(14)
Article 514. Article 514 is hereby amended by adding the following section:
Filling stations—Gasoline: Circuits serving pumps shall not be used for lighting or any other purpose. Each pump shall be on a separate circuit. Only one circuit shall be allowed to the pump unit, which shall be of the explosionproof kind. Conduit and approved wire or cable shall be used. Conduits shall be sealed off with an approved type of fitting at the point of entrance in the building.
(15)
Article 600. Article 600 is hereby amended by adding the following sections:
Any person manufacturing electrical signs in the city may install such wiring necessary within the sign, under the supervision of the electrical inspector. All electrical signs installed in the city shall have the underwriter's label attached before they are installed or connected. Companies manufacturing or installing electrical signs shall not do any electrical wiring to a building wiring system or install any wiring in buildings for signs, except when such work is to be done by a person holding a certificate from the city electrical department as an electrician.
Each outline lighting installation and each sign of other than the portable type shall be controlled by an externally operable switch which will open all ungrounded conductors. This switch shall be within sight of the signs or outline which it controls, or may be located elsewhere, if capable of being locked in the open position.
All signs of the portable type shall not be connected to a circuit supplying other outlets. On gas tube lighting and window signs the installation shall conform to the rules and regulations of the National Electrical Code. No luminous tube transformer known as the coil type shall be used, except when such transformer is enclosed in a code grade metal box, with proper bushings. No luminous tube transformer shall be installed in any place that is not accessible at all times and contains less than five cubic feet of space. All high tension wiring is to be insulated for the voltage of the transformer and shall be supported on porcelain or glass insulators with not less than 1½-inch ends or connections which are to be protected.
All show windows and outline lighting installed in the city shall conform to the rules and regulations of the National Electrical Code and are subject to inspection and approval before they are connected. Permits for this class of work are to be the same as other electrical work.
(Code 1982, § 5-21)
Secs. 18-43—18-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMITS; INSPECTIONS

Sec. 18-61. - Permit required; application; exception.
(a)
Before beginning any work of electrical installation, construction or repair, a permit shall be obtained from the electrical department, by submitting an application upon forms furnished for such purpose. The application shall contain an accurate and detailed account of the electrical work contemplated.
(b)
A permit to do electrical work shall not be required for minor electrical repairs involving any new work, alteration, extension or change whatsoever that may be necessary or incidental to the maintenance of an established plant or installation of a system of wiring.
(Code 1982, § 5-30)
Sec. 18-62. - Permit fees.
(a)
Fees, as set by the mayor and city council, shall be charged and collected by the electrical department at the time the permit to do electrical work is issued.
(b)
If any person shall do any work covered by this article without obtaining the required permit and paying the required fees, the building inspector shall make out a bill for such fees and transmit it to the city clerk, who shall issue a fieri facias in the name of the city against such person in the usual form of executions issued by the city, and turn such fieri facias over to the marshal, who shall proceed to levy and collect the amount in the same manner as for any other collection.
(Code 1982, § 5-31)
Sec. 18-63. - Issuance of permit.
(a)
Upon the approval of the application for a permit to do electrical work and the payment of the fees for such permit, the electrical department shall issue such permit to the applicant. Permits shall be issued only to electricians certified under the provisions of this article.
(b)
No permit to do electrical work shall be issued to any applicant who either:
(1)
Is in debt to the city for permit fees due and payable for any previous permit issued to such applicant; or
(2)
Has failed to correct any defect in any previous work within five days after having been duly notified of such defect by the building inspector.
(Code 1982, § 5-32)
Sec. 18-64. - Plans and specifications.
(a)
If requested by the building inspector, the applicant for a permit to do electrical work shall file a general plan of construction and a detailed description of the apparatus, devices, appliances and fixtures to be used in such work.
(b)
Such plan shall consist at least of a satisfactory layout or blueprint bearing the seal and state registration number of a registered engineer and shall include all wire sizes and switch and fuse capacity, determined by the connected load or computed by the circuits connected or by the load of the amount of outlets or appliances to be used or the amount to be wired for if not used as set out in the National Electrical Code or this article.
(Code 1982, § 5-33)
Sec. 18-65. - Revocation of permit; appeal.
(a)
After five days' notice duly made by the building inspector, any permit granted to any electrician may be revoked by the board of electrical control should such electrician be found guilty of any violation of any applicable section of this Code or article.
(b)
Any person whose permit has been revoked under this section shall have the right to appeal such decision to the municipal court, and there have a trial on the evidence to determine whether the decision was justified. Such appeal shall be made in writing within five days after the decision or judgment appealed from.
(Code 1982, § 5-34)
Sec. 18-66. - Expiration of permit.
Any permit to do electrical work which may be issued by the electrical department and under which no work is commenced within three months from the time of the issuance of such permit shall expire.
(Code 1982, § 5-35)
Sec. 18-67. - Supplemental permits.
If, after obtaining a permit to do electrical work, it is found necessary to change or increase the load of electric current or alter or change in any other way the work authorized by such permit, an application for a supplemental permit shall be filed covering the additional work, and a permit obtained for such work.
(Code 1982, § 5-36)
Sec. 18-68. - Temporary wiring.
Upon issuance of written approval from the building inspector, temporary wiring may be installed for the following purposes:
(1)
To supply power for the purpose of hoisting material used in a building under construction or remodeling, and for the purpose of lighting such building or structures used in connection with the construction of such building.
(2)
To allow current to be turned on to certain parts of wiring installations which have been made safe to the satisfaction of the electrical department in order to allow the testing of certain electrical equipment.
(3)
To allow tenants, lessees or owners the use of certain completed parts of buildings before the entire job is completed.
(4)
To light tents or buildings used for religious gatherings or shows, where such tents or buildings will only be used for a short duration of time, or for decorative purposes, where wiring will only be used for a short period of time.
(Code 1982, § 5-37)
Sec. 18-69. - Application for temporary wiring permit; issuance; duration.
(a)
Application. The application for temporary wiring and service approval shall state the period of time the service is required and the necessity for such service.
(b)
Issuance. Approval for temporary wiring and service may be issued when such work is installed in such a manner as not to endanger life or property.
(c)
Duration. No temporary wiring and service approval shall be issued for a period of more than 90 days. If it is necessary for temporary work to remain for more than 90 days, it is required that a request for such extension of temporary approval shall be made in writing by the person holding the permit.
(Code 1982, § 5-38)
Sec. 18-70. - Discontinuance of temporary wiring service.
Upon the expiration of any temporary wiring and service approval, such service shall be immediately discontinued, unless approval for an extension of time is obtained from the building inspector.
(Code 1982, § 5-39)
Sec. 18-71. - Connection of temporary services; fee.
All temporary services shall be connected by the department or agency of the city having jurisdiction. A fee, as set by the mayor and city council, shall be charged for each such service, which shall be paid at the time application is made for such service.
(Code 1982, § 5-40)
Sec. 18-72. - Notice required prior to changeover from temporary service to permanent service.
The contractor shall be required to notify the building inspector at least three days prior to such contractor's request for permanent service.
(Code 1982, § 5-41)
Sec. 18-73. - Inspections required; certificate of approval.
Upon the completion of the electrical work authorized by a permit, and upon notice by the master electrician performing such work, it shall then be the duty of the building inspector to inspect such wiring or work and, if approved by such officer as being in conformity with this article, state law and the approved methods of construction for safety to life and property, such officer shall issue a certificate to be known as a certificate of approval, which shall authorize the electric current to be turned on. It shall be unlawful for the current to be turned on until such certificate of approval has been obtained.
(Code 1982, § 5-42)
Sec. 18-74. - Exceptions.
Inspections of electrical work performed shall not be required:
(1)
In any case where temporary approval may be granted; or
(2)
When any industrial plant or establishment permanently employs maintenance personnel for the purpose of installing or repairing electrical wiring and equipment; provided, however, that such maintenance personnel shall be permitted to establish or repair electrical wiring and equipment only within their employer's premises.
(Code 1982, § 5-43)
Sec. 18-75. - Concealment of work prior to inspection.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cover or conceal any electrical wiring or installation in the city before the wiring or installation has been inspected by the building inspector.
(Code 1982, § 5-44)
Secs. 18-76—18-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - GAS[4]
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 18-101. - Powers and duties of inspector.
(a)
Inspection and supervision. The director of utilities and his designees, as gas inspector, are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to inspect and supervise the installation, construction, reconstruction and repair of all house gas piping, gas appliances, fixtures and apparatus placed in or, in any manner, directly attached to any building or structure within the city and its gas service territory.
(b)
Issuance of permits; notices, records. It shall be the duty of the gas inspector to receive all applications for connections; pass on and approve or reject plans submitted; issue permits for all gas plumbing work, extensions or changes in the location of fixtures; sign and issue all notices; keep a daily record of all applications received, plans approved and all other matters which may pertain thereto; and make a monthly report of his operations.
(c)
Out of repair and imperfect plumbing. The gas inspector shall inspect, as often as necessary, all buildings in the course of erection, alteration or repair and inspect any gas plumbing of any character already in use which such inspector may have reason to believe is out of repair or is imperfect.
(d)
Investigation of violations. It shall be the duty of the gas inspector to investigate all alleged violations of the provisions of this article and to file complaints, when necessary.
(e)
Deciding controversies. The gas inspector shall decide all controversies which may arise under this article and, in so doing, shall be subject to the control and direction of the mayor and city council and/or the utility commission.
(f)
Right of entry. The gas inspector is hereby authorized and vested with full authority to enter any building or premises in the city, at any reasonable time, in the discharge of his duties and the enforcement of this article.
(Code 1982, § 5-50)
Sec. 18-102. - City employees to commence, connect gas service.
No one, except the municipal natural gas system, shall, at any time, turn on any valve or cock or in any way tamper or make any connection with any gas main, meter, meter connection or gas service pipe between the main and the building piping. The user, however, may turn off gas service at the main jet valve in case of an emergency.
(Code 1982, § 5-51)
Secs. 18-103—18-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMITS; INSPECTIONS

Sec. 18-121. - Permit required.
No property owner shall cause or permit any installation, construction, reconstruction or repair of any building gas piping in the city and its gas service territory before the person doing the work shall have first obtained a permit from the gas inspector to do such work.
(Code 1982, § 5-60)
Sec. 18-122. - Plans and specifications.
Before the construction, reconstruction, installation or repair of any building gas piping, suitable plans and specifications of all the work proposed to be done, clearly showing the size of pipes, kind of fittings, locations and measurements, made out on blanks furnished by the gas inspector and properly signed by the owner, the owner's agent or other authorized representative, shall be filed at the office of the gas inspector. All connections and fixtures shall be neatly drawn as follows:
(1)
Black ink shall be used for new work or an extension of old work;
(2)
Red ink shall be used for old work.
(Code 1982, § 5-61)
Sec. 18-123. - Issuance of permit.
If the plans are approved by the gas inspector, he will issue a written permit within two days after the permit application is filed.
(Code 1982, § 5-62)
Sec. 18-124. - Permit issued only to licensee.
No permit to install, construct, reconstruct or repair any building gas piping shall be issued, except to a licensed gas fitter or a person authorized to do such work in accordance with state law and the provisions of this article.
(Code 1982, § 5-63)
Sec. 18-125. - Changes and modifications of approved plans.
No change or modification of approved plans will be permitted unless such change or modification has been authorized by the owner or agent, submitted to, and approved by, the gas inspector and placed on file as in the case of original work, and no variance from the rules shall be permitted that is not specifically authorized in writing by the gas inspector, although it may be shown on the plan and the work may have passed inspection.
(Code 1982, § 5-64)
Sec. 18-126. - Correction of improper work.
The gas inspector always reserves the right to compel the gas fitter to rectify any infraction of the rules even though the work has passed inspection and a final inspection certificate has been issued, and the gas fitter's bond will be held for such infraction.
(Code 1982, § 5-65)
Sec. 18-127. - Inspection, testing and certificate required.
When gas piping has been installed in a building or structure, whether such installation is new construction, repairs or extensions, the installation must be inspected and tested in the presence of the gas inspector or one of his assistants, a certificate of inspection issued and an inspection tag attached to such piping by the inspector.
(Code 1982, § 5-66)
Sec. 18-128. - Testing and application for inspection.
When the system of piping and all extensions thereto have been completed and all openings firmly closed, the person installing such piping shall make the test provided for in this division and, if the piping is found tight, shall make application for inspection to the gas inspector. Upon such application, the gas inspector or one of his assistants will inspect the piping and shall witness the test.
(Code 1982, § 5-67)
Sec. 18-129. - Mercury column test.
The test required shall be made by closing all openings and subjecting all the piping to air pressure that will support a column of mercury ten inches in height. If such column of mercury is supported by the air pressure for at least 15 minutes, the piping shall be considered tight and in compliance with this article. No fire test or water test shall be permitted on any building gas piping, and water tested piping will be condemned as faulty.
(Code 1982, § 5-68)
Sec. 18-130. - Issuance and delivery of certificate of inspection.
If the gas piping is found tight and the work done is in accordance with the provisions of this article, the gas inspector shall issue and deliver a certificate of inspection.
(Code 1982, § 5-69)
Sec. 18-131. - Work performed after issuance of certificate of inspection.
Any additional gas piping or outlets installed after a certificate of inspection has been issued must be reported for inspection and tested in the same manner as piping originally installed.
(Code 1982, § 5-70)
Sec. 18-132. - Commencement of service.
The gas inspector shall furnish the gas service department or agency with a copy of each certificate of inspection. Such department or agency shall not turn gas into any new, altered or repaired system of gas until such certificate has been received.
(Code 1982, § 5-71)
Sec. 18-133. - Hazardous and defective equipment.
The gas inspector shall give the owner or agent in charge of any building written notice of any defects or hazards in or near such owner's gas plumbing or fixtures and shall state the changes or repairs necessary. Such owner or agent shall, within five days after such notice, make the necessary changes or repairs. If the owner or agent fails to comply with the notice, the gas inspector may order the gas service department or agency to turn off the gas and it shall not thereafter resume gas service until the gas inspector has certified that such defects or hazards have been repaired or removed.
(Code 1982, § 5-72)
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 38.
Secs. 18-134—18-150. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - INSTALLATION STANDARDS

Sec. 18-151. - NFPA Code adopted; amendment procedure.
(a)
There is hereby adopted by the city, as a standard for the installation of gas piping and gas appliances in buildings, the current edition of that certain publication of the National Fire Protection Association, No. 54, entitled, "National Fuel Gas Code," subject to all amendments adopted by the mayor and city council and all conflicting provisions contained in this Code or state law. A certified copy of such code is on file in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
Revisions of and amendments to such code may be accepted for use within the city upon consideration thereof and order to that effect adopted by the mayor and city council, by simple order entered on the minutes of the city. The action of the city in accepting such revisions or amendments to such code from time to time by order on its minutes shall not preclude adoption of revisions or amendments by ordinance and incorporation in this Code by reference.
(Code 1982, § 5-80)
State Law reference— State gas code, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20.
Sec. 18-152. - American Standard Code, section 800, adopted; amendment procedure.
(a)
The provisions and definitions, rules and regulations relating to materials and piping system components; welding procedures and equipment; operating and maintenance procedures; and other miscellaneous matters, including appendices, prescribed in section 800 of the American Standard Code for pressure piping (USASB 31 8-1967), as amended, for the design, construction, installation, testing, upgrading or uprating and maintenance of natural gas distribution systems located or operated in the city are hereby adopted, and the natural gas distribution system located within the city shall comply with such code section, subject to all amendments adopted by the mayor and city council and all conflicting provisions contained in this Code or state law. A certified copy of such code section is on file in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
Revisions of and amendments to such code section may be accepted for use within the city upon consideration thereof and order to that effect adopted by the mayor and city council, by simple order entered on the minutes of the city. The action of the city in accepting such revisions or amendments from time to time by order on its minutes shall not preclude adoption of revisions or amendments by ordinance and incorporation in this Code.
(Code 1982, § 5-81)
Sec. 18-153. - Extension of piping to meters.
The building gas piping shall be extended to the meter location designated by the distributor of gas, and a swing joint provided for connecting building piping to the meter outlet.
(Code 1982, § 5-82)
Sec. 18-154. - Installation of meters under buildings.
No gas meter shall be installed or maintained under the floor of any building or structure unless there is suitable ventilation and, in any such installation, an opening of at least two square feet in the foundation or skirting within two feet of the meter shall be provided and maintained. No gas meter shall be installed and maintained in a small unvented or confined space.
(Code 1982, § 5-83)
Sec. 18-155. - Multiple meter installations.
When more than one meter is required to serve consumers in one building or structure, the gas system may set as many meters as there are separate consumers, connecting such meters to one service line. When this is done, the riser pipes serving the several consumers shall be extended to within 18 inches and within the same enclosure as the meter location and shall not be scattered, but shall drop together in alignment and at least three inches apart to the place where the meters are to be set.
(Code 1982, § 5-84)
Secs. 18-156—18-190. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - MECHANICAL SYSTEMS[5]

Sec. 18-191. - Codes adopted; amendment procedure.
(a)
There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the installation of air conditioning, heating and ventilating systems, the current edition of the certain standards known as "NFPA 90A, Standard for the Installation of Air Conditioning and Ventilating Systems of Other Than Residence Type" and "NFPA 90B, Standard for the Installation of Residence Type Warm Air Heating and Air Conditioning Systems," as recommended by the National Fire Protection Association and the whole thereof, except such portions as are in conflict with this Code or state law, and subject to all amendments adopted by the mayor and city council.
(b)
Revisions of and amendments to such codes may be accepted for use within the city upon consideration thereof and order to that effect adopted by the mayor and city council, by simple order entered on the minutes of the city. The action of the city in accepting such revisions or amendments from time to time by order on its minutes shall not preclude adoption of revisions or amendments by ordinance and incorporation in this Code by reference.
(Code 1982, § 5-90)
State Law reference— State Mechanical Code, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20.
Secs. 18-192—18-220. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - PLUMBING[6]

Sec. 18-221. - Code adopted; amendment procedure.
(a)
The Standard Plumbing Code, current edition, with Georgia amendments, is hereby adopted as the plumbing code of the city, subject to amendments adopted by the mayor and city council and conflicting provisions contained in this Code or state law. A certified copy of such code is on file in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
Revisions of and amendments to the plumbing code may be accepted for use within the city upon consideration thereof and order to that effect adopted by the mayor and city council, by simple order entered on the minutes of the city. The action of the city in accepting such revisions or amendments from time to time by order on its minutes shall not preclude adoption of revisions or amendments by ordinance and incorporation in this Code by reference.
(Code 1982, § 5-100)
State Law reference— State Plumbing Code, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20.
Secs. 18-222—18-250. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - PROPERTY NUMBERING SYSTEM[7]

Sec. 18-251. - Designation of street numbers.
(a)
Street numbers for dwelling units and places of business on all public and private streets shall be assigned by the mayor and city council in accordance with its administrative procedures.
(b)
The city shall keep a record of all numbers assigned under this article.
(Code 1982, § 5-131)
Sec. 18-252. - Posting of designated street addresses.
(a)
The owner, occupant or person in charge of any house or building to which a number has been assigned will be notified, in writing, by the building inspection office of the number assigned to the house or building at any time after the adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived.
(b)
It shall be the duty of such owner, occupant or person in charge of such house or building, upon affixing the new number, to remove any different number which might be mistaken for, or confused with, the number assigned to such house or building by the city.
(c)
Each principal building shall display the number assigned upon the frontage on which the front entrance of such building is located. In case a principal building is occupied by more than one business or family dwelling unit, each separate front entrance may display a separate number.
(d)
Numerals indicating the official numbers for each principal building or each front entrance to such building shall be posted in a manner so as to be legible and distinguishable from the street on which the property is located.
(Code 1982, § 5-132)
Sec. 18-253. - New structures.
(a)
Numbers will be assigned to each proposed lot or tract on the surveyors' copies of final subdivision plats.
(b)
No building permit shall be issued for any principal building until the owner or developer has procured from the city building inspector the official number of the premises. Final approval for a certificate of occupancy of any principal building erected or repaired after the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived shall be withheld until permanent and proper numbers have been displayed in accordance with the requirements of section 18-252.
(Code 1982, § 5-133)
Sec. 18-254. - Violations; penalties.
If the owner, occupant or person in charge of any house or building refuses to comply with the terms of this article by failing to affix the number assigned within 30 days after notification, or by failing within such 30-day period to remove any old numbers affixed to such house, house entrance or elsewhere which may be confused with the number assigned thereto, he shall be punished as provided in section 1-12 of this Code.
(Code 1982, § 5-134)
Secs. 18-255—18-290. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - REPAIR, CLOSING OR DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES[8]

Sec. 18-291. - Findings; applicability.
(a)
It is found and declared that there exist in the city dwellings or other buildings or structures which are unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial or business uses due to dilapidation and are not in compliance with applicable codes; which have defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities; which lack adequate ventilation, light or sanitary facilities; which are vacant, dilapidated and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes upon personal observation or report of a law enforcement agency and evidence of drug crimes being committed; or where other conditions exist rendering such dwellings or other buildings or structures unsafe or unsanitary, or dangerous or detrimental to the health, safety or welfare, or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the city, and that the city should use its police power to repair, close or demolish such dwellings or other buildings or structures in the manner provided in this article.
(b)
All the provisions of this section and O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-8—41-2-17, including method and procedure, may also be applied to private property where there exists an endangerment to the public health or safety, as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, to the persons residing or working in the vicinity. A finding by any governmental health department, health officer or building inspector that such property is a health or safety hazard shall constitute prima facie evidence that such property is in violation of this section and O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-8—41-2-17.
(Code 1982, § 5-140; Res. of 7-19-2001)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-7, 41-2-10.
Sec. 18-292. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Article means the provisions of this article and O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-7—41-2-17.
Closing means causing a dwelling or other building or structure to be vacated and secured against unauthorized entry.
Drug crime means an act which is a violation of O.C.G.A. § 16-13-20 et seq., known as the Georgia Controlled Substances Act.
Dwellings or other buildings or structures means any building or structure, or part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or commercial, industrial or business use, or intended to be so used, and includes any outhouse, improvement and appurtenance belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith, and also includes any building or structure of any design. Such term shall not mean or include any farm, building or structure located on a farm or any agricultural facility or other building or structure used for the production, growing, raising, harvesting, storage or processing of crops, livestock, poultry or other farm products.
Governing body means the mayor and city council.
Municipality means the City of Fort Valley.
Owner means the holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
Parties in interest means:
(1)
Persons in possession of such property and premises;
(2)
Persons having of record in the county in which the dwelling or other building or structure is located any vested right, title or interest in, or lien upon, such dwelling or other building or structure, or the lot, tract or parcel of real property upon which the structure is situated or upon which the public health hazard or general nuisance exists, based upon a 50-year title examination conducted in accordance with the title standards of the state bar;
(3)
Persons having paid an occupational tax to the governing body for a location or office at the subject building or structure; or
(4)
Persons having filed a property tax return with the governing body as to the subject property, building or structure.
Public authority means any member of the governing body, any housing authority officer or any officer who is in charge of any department or branch of the government of the municipality, county or state relating to health, fire or building regulations or other activities concerning dwellings or other buildings or structures in the county or municipality.
Public officer means the building inspector, city marshal or any other officers who are authorized by this article to exercise the powers prescribed by such article, or any agent of such officers.
Repair means altering or improving a dwelling or other building or structure so as to bring the structure into compliance with the applicable codes in the jurisdiction where the property is located, and the cleaning or removal of debris, trash and other materials present and accumulated which create a health or safety hazard in or about any dwelling or other building or structure.
Resident means any person residing in the jurisdiction where the property is located on or after the date on which the alleged nuisance arose.
(Code 1982, § 5-141; Res. of 7-19-2001)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-8.
Sec. 18-293. - Dwellings or other buildings or structures unfit for human habitation.
(a)
It is the duty of the owner of every dwelling or other building or structure or property within the municipality to construct and maintain such dwelling or other building or structure, or property in conformance with applicable codes in force within the municipality, or such ordinances which regulate and prohibit activities on property and which declare it to be a public nuisance to construct or maintain any dwelling or other building or structure or property in violation of such codes or ordinances.
(b)
The public officer shall exercise the powers prescribed by the ordinances.
(c)
Whenever a request is filed with the public officer by a public authority or at least five residents of the municipality charging that any dwelling or other building or structure or property is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the public officer shall make an investigation or inspection of the specific dwelling or other building or structure or property. If the officer's investigation or inspection identifies that any dwelling or other building or structure or property is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the public officer may issue a complaint in rem against the lot, tract or parcel of real property on which such dwelling or other building or structure is situated or where such public health hazard or general nuisance exists and shall cause summons and a copy of the complaint to be served on the owner and parties in interest in such dwelling or other building or structure. The complaint shall identify the subject real property by appropriate street address and official tax map reference; identify the owner and parties in interest; state with particularity the factual basis for the action; and contain a statement of the action sought by the public officer to abate the alleged nuisance. The summons shall notify the owner and parties in interest that a hearing will be held before a court of competent jurisdiction as determined by O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5, at a date and time certain and at a place within the municipality where the property is located. Such hearing shall be held not less than 15 days, nor more than 45 days after the filing of the complaint in the proper court. The owner and parties in interest shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person or by attorney and offer testimony at the time and place fixed for the hearing.
(d)
If, after such notice and hearing, the court determines that the dwelling or other building or structure in question is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the court shall state, in writing, findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause an order to be served upon the owner and any parties in interest that have answered the complaint or appeared at the hearing:
(1)
If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling or other building or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling or other building or structure, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter or improve such dwelling or other building or structure so as to bring it into full compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violation and, if applicable, to secure the structure so that it cannot be used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or
(2)
If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling or other building or structure in order to bring it into full compliance with applicable codes relevant to the cited violations cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling or other building or structure, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to demolish and remove such dwelling or other building or structure and all debris from the property.
For the purposes of this section, the court shall make its determination of "reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling or other building or structure" without consideration of the value of the land on which the structure is situated; provided, however, that costs of the preparation necessary to repair, alter or improve a structure may be considered. Income and financial status of the owner shall not be a factor in the court's determination. The present value of the structure and the costs of repair, alteration or improvement may be established by affidavits of real estate appraisers with a state appraiser classification as provided in O.C.G.A. § 40-39A-1 et seq., qualified building contractors or qualified building inspectors, without actual testimony presented. Costs of repair, alteration or improvement of the structure shall be the cost necessary to bring the structure into compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violations in force in the municipality.
(e)
If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair or demolish the dwelling or other building or structure, the public officer may cause such dwelling or other building or structure to be repaired, altered or improved, or to be vacated and closed or demolished. The public officer shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the building or other dwelling or structure a placard with the following words:
"This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial or business use and does not comply with the applicable codes or has been ordered secured to prevent its use in connection with drug crimes or constitutes an endangerment to public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions. The use or occupation of this building is prohibited and unlawful."
(f)
If the public officer has the structure demolished, reasonable effort shall be made to salvage reusable materials for credit against the cost of demolition. The proceeds of any moneys received from the sale of salvaged materials shall be used or applied against the cost of the demolition and removal of the structure, and proper records shall be kept showing application of sales proceeds. Any such sale of salvaged materials may be made without the necessity of public advertisement and bid. The public officer and governing body are relieved of any and all liability resulting from or occasioned by the sale of any such salvaged materials, including, without limitation, defects in such salvaged materials.
(g)
The amount of the cost of demolition, including all court costs, appraisal fees, administrative costs incurred by the tax commissioner and all other costs necessarily associated with the abatement action, including restoration to grade of the real property after demolition, shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred.
(h)
The lien provided for in subsection (g) of this section shall attach to the real property upon the filing of a certified copy of the order requiring the repair, closure or demolition in the office of the clerk of superior court in the county where the real property is located and shall relate back to the date of the filing of the lis pendens notice required under O.C.G.A. § 41-2-12(g). The clerk of superior court shall record and index such certified copy of the order in the deed records of the county and enter the lien on the general execution docket. The lien shall be superior to all other liens on the property, except liens for taxes to which the lien shall be inferior, and shall continue in force until paid. After filing a certified copy of the order with the clerk of superior court, the public officer shall forward a copy of the order and a final statement of costs to the county tax commissioner. It shall be the duty of the county tax commissioner to collect the amount of the lien in conjunction with the collection of ad valorem taxes on the property and to collect the amount of the lien as if it were a real property ad valorem tax, using all methods available for collecting real property ad valorem taxes, including, specifically, O.C.G.A. § 48-4-1 et seq.; provided, however, that the limitation of O.C.G.A. § 48-4-78 which requires 12 months of delinquency before commencing a tax foreclosure shall not apply. The tax commissioner shall remit the amount collected to the governing body. Thirty days after imposition of the lien, the unpaid lien amount shall bear interest and penalties in the same amount as applicable to interest and penalties on unpaid real property ad valorem taxes.
(i)
The tax commissioner shall collect and retain an amount equal to the cost of administering a lien authorized by O.C.G.A. § 41-2-1 et seq. unless such costs are waived by resolution of the county governing authority. Any such amount collected and retained for administration shall be deposited in the general fund of the county to pay the cost of administering the lien.
(j)
The governing body may waive and release any such lien imposed on property upon the owner of such property entering into a contract with the municipality agreeing to a timetable for rehabilitation of the real property or the dwelling or other building or structure on the property and demonstrating the financial means to accomplish such rehabilitation.
(k)
Where the abatement action does not commence in the superior court, review of a court order requiring the repair, alteration, improvement or demolition of a dwelling or other building or structure shall be by direct appeal to the superior court under O.C.G.A. § 5-3-29.
(l)
In addition to the procedures and remedies in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-1 et seq., public officers may issue citations for violations of state minimum standard codes, optional building, fire, life safety and other codes adopted by ordinance, and conditions creating a public health hazard or general nuisance, and seek to enforce such citations in a court of competent jurisdiction prior to issuing a complaint in rem as provided in this section.
(m)
Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the municipality to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Code 1982, § 5-142)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9.
Sec. 18-294. - Conditions for determination of unfitness.
The public officer may determine that a dwelling or other building or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use if he finds that conditions exist in such building or other dwelling or structure which are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals of the occupants of such dwelling or other building or structure; of the occupants of neighborhood dwellings or other buildings or structures; or of other residents of the city. Such conditions may include the following, without limiting the generality of the foregoing:
(1)
Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities;
(2)
Lack of adequate ventilation, light or sanitary facilities;
(3)
Dilapidation;
(4)
Disrepair;
(5)
Structural defects;
(6)
Uncleanliness; and
(7)
Vacant, dilapidated and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes upon personal observation or report of a law enforcement agency and evidence of drug crimes being committed.
(Code 1982, § 5-143; Res. of 7-19-2001)
Sec. 18-295. - Powers of public officers in regard to unfit buildings or structures.
The public officer may exercise such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of this article, including the following powers, in addition to others granted in this article:
(1)
Investigate the dwelling conditions in the unincorporated area in the municipality in order to determine which dwellings or other buildings or structures therein are unfit for human habitation or are unfit for current commercial, industrial or business use, or are vacant, dilapidated and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes;
(2)
Administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive evidence;
(3)
Enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations; provided, however, that such entries shall be made in a manner so as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession thereof;
(4)
Appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents and employees as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this article; and
(5)
Delegate any of his functions and powers under this article to such officers and agents as he may designate.
(Code 1982, § 5-144)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-11.
Sec. 18-296. - Service of complaints or orders upon parties in interest and owners of unfit buildings or structures.
(a)
Complaints issued by the public officer pursuant to this article shall be served in the manner set forth in this section. In all cases, a copy of the complaint and summons shall be conspicuously posted on the subject dwelling or other building or structure within three business days of filing of the complaint and at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing. A copy of the complaint and summons shall be served in one of the following ways:
(1)
Personal service upon each owner and party in interest, if such parties are residents of the county. Service shall be perfected at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing. Service may be made by the public officer designated by ordinance to abate nuisances or by any law enforcement officer of the municipality, and a return of service, filed with the clerk of the appropriate court, shall be deemed sufficient proof that service was perfected;
(2)
Pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-4-75 et seq.; or
(3)
Statutory overnight delivery.
(b)
If any owner or party in interest is a resident of the state, but resides outside of the county, service shall be perfected by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, to the most recent address shown in county tax filings, and mailed at least 14 days prior to the date of the hearing.
(c)
Nonresidents of the state, whose mailing address is known, shall be served by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, mailed at least 14 days prior to the date of the hearing. For nonresidents whose mailing address is unknown, a notice, stating the date, time and place of the hearing, shall be published in the newspaper in which the sheriff's advertisements appear in such county once a week for two consecutive weeks prior to the hearing.
(d)
If either the owner or any party in interest is a minor, an estate, an incompetent person or person laboring under disabilities, the guardian or other personal representative of such person shall be served and, if such guardian or personal representative resides outside the county or is a nonresident of the state, he shall be served as provided in subsection (c) of this section. If such owner or party in interest has no guardian or personal representative, service shall be perfected by serving the judge of the probate court of the county at least 30 days prior to the date of the hearing, which judge shall stand in the place and protect the rights of such minor, estate or incompetent person or appoint a guardian ad litem for such person.
(e)
In the case of unknown persons or unborn remaindermen who are likely to have any rights in the property or interest in the proceeds thereof, the judge of the probate court of the county shall be personally served at least 30 days prior to the date of the hearing, and it shall be the duty of the judge of the probate court to stand in the place of and protect the rights of such unknown parties or unborn remaindermen.
(f)
If the whereabouts of any owner or party in interest is unknown and cannot be ascertained by the public officer in the exercise of reasonable diligence or, if any owner or party in interest cannot, after due diligence, be served as provided in this section, the public officer shall make an affidavit to that effect and serve such affidavit by publication in the manner provided in subsection (c) of this section, and such publication shall be sufficient proof that service was perfected.
(g)
A notice of lis pendens shall be filed in the office of the clerk of superior court at the time of filing the complaint in the appropriate court. Such notice shall have the same force and effect as other lis pendens notices provided by law.
(h)
Orders and other filings made subsequent to service of the initial complaint shall be served in the manner provided in this section on the owner and any party in interest who answers the complaint or appears at the hearing. Any party who fails to answer or appear at the hearing shall be deemed to have waived all further notice in the proceedings.
(Code 1982, § 5-145; Res. of 7-19-2001)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-12.
Sec. 18-297. - Injunctions against order to repair, close or demolish unfit buildings or structures.
Any person affected by an order issued by the public officer may petition to the superior court of the county for an injunction restraining the public officer from carrying out the provisions of the order, and the court may, upon such petition, issue a temporary injunction restraining the public officer, pending the final disposition of the cause; provided, however, that such person shall present such petition to the court within 15 days of the posting and service of the order of the public officer. De novo hearings shall be had by the court on petitions within 20 days. The court shall hear and determine the issues raised and shall enter such final order or decree as law and justice may require; provided, however, that it shall not be necessary to file a bond in any amount before obtaining a temporary injunction under this section.
(Code 1982, § 5-146)
Sec. 18-298. - Taking of unfit buildings or structures by eminent domain; police power.
Nothing in this article shall be construed as preventing the owner of any property from receiving just compensation for the taking of such property by the power of eminent domain under the laws of the state, nor as permitting any property to be condemned or destroyed, except in accordance with the police power of the state.
(Code 1982, § 5-147)
Sec. 18-299. - Authority to use revenues, grants and donations to repair, close or demolish unfit buildings or structures.
The city may make such appropriations from its revenues as it may deem necessary, and may accept and apply grants or donations to assist it in carrying out the provisions of this article.
(Code 1982, § 5-148)
Sec. 18-300. - Construction.
Nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers of the courts or of any department of the city to enforce any provisions of its Charter, or its ordinances or regulations, nor to prevent or punish violations thereof; and the powers conferred by this article shall be in addition, and supplemental, to the powers conferred by any other law or ordinance.
(Code 1982, § 5-149)
