Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Fort Valley, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1982, § 1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and city council:
Charter. The term "Charter" shall mean the Charter of the city, as it now exists or as it may be amended in the future.
City. The term "the city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the term "of Fort Valley, Georgia" followed it. Such term may include duly authorized officers and employees of the city, if the context so required.
Code and this Code. Whenever the terms "Code" and "this Code" are referred to without further qualification, they shall mean The Code of Fort Valley, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be done, a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall be counted in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" shall mean Peach County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or an officer of the city to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. A term importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to the other genders.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include the person, as defined in this section, whether acting in person or through a servant, agent or employee.
Mayor and city council. The term "mayor and city council" shall mean the mayor and city council of Fort Valley.
Month. The term "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical terms. Terms and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. A term importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing. A term importing the plural number only may extend and be applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." shall mean the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation, and the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires.
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to organizations, associations, clubs, societies, joint ventures, firms, partnerships, receivers, trusts, trustees, bodies politic and corporate, groups acting as a unit and legal entities, as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall include every species of property, except real property, as defined in this section.
Preceding and following. The terms "preceding" and "following" shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. The term "premises" shall mean a place or places.
Property. The term "property" shall include real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto, street, as defined in this section, or any area available and/or legally accessible to the public.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" shall mean the portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral lines of a railway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by pedestrians.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1.
Signature and subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. The term "the state" or "this state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Statutory rules. Where not otherwise provided in this Code or the ordinances, the same rules shall be applied in construing the sections of this Code and the ordinances of the city as are applied in construing the statutes of the state, which rules are found in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq., and the same meanings are given to terms found in the ordinances as are given to terms found in the statutes of the state.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the city.
Tenant and occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," when applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Terms used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Title of officer, employee, department, board, commissioner or agency. Whenever the title of an officer, employee, department, board, commissioner or agency is given, it shall be construed as though the term "of the city" were added.
Week. The term "week" shall be construed to mean seven days.
Written and in writing. The terms "written" and "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of terms, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 1982, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-3. - Section catchlines and other headings.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. No provision of this Code shall be held invalid because of deficiency in any such catchline or in any heading to any chapter, article or division.
(Code 1982, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - History notes.
The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect, but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the sections.
Sec. 1-5. - Editor's notes and references.
The editor's notes, Charter references, cross references and state law references in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect, but are merely intended to assist the user of this Code.
Sec. 1-6. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1982, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-7. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
The repeal provided for in the ordinance adopting this Code shall not affect the following matters and things, and such matters and things are continued in effect to the same extent as though this Code had not been adopted:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of such ordinance;
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(3)
Any administrative ordinance of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
(4)
Any ordinance fixing compensation or other benefits of officers or employees of the city;
(5)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by the mayor and city council to any person, firm or corporation;
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating or establishing the grade of any street or public way in the city, or establishing lines for building setbacks therefrom;
(8)
Any ordinance amending the Charter;
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes for such improvements;
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city;
(11)
Any ordinance annexing property in the city;
(12)
Any ordinance providing for the rezoning of property;
(13)
Any ordinance not inconsistent with this Code levying, imposing or providing for collection of any tax;
(14)
Any ordinance prescribing traffic regulations of specific locations, prescribing through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic or limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones, not inconsistent with this Code;
(15)
Any ordinance fixing fees or utility rates and charges, not inconsistent with this Code;
(16)
Any ordinance establishing a commission, authority or agency not inconsistent with this Code;
(17)
Any resolution not inconsistent with this Code; or
(18)
Any temporary ordinance or special ordinance.
(Code 1982, § 1-10)
Sec. 1-8. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend, by addition or deletion, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the mayor and city council, which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
(Code 1982, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-9. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and city council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any such phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section, or its application to any person or circumstance, shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted without the incorporation of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section or their application.
(Code 1982, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-10. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to the last ordinance included in this Code, which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number in the following language: "That section ___ of the Code of Fort Valley, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not theretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Fort Valley, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered ___, which section shall read as follows:…." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1982, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-11. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the mayor and city council. A supplement to this Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the mayor and city council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be numbered so that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be prepared so that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the term "this ordinance" or terms of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections ___ to ___" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code, but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 1982, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-12. - General penalty.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful or a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.00, or imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or work on the public streets or other such public works for not more than 90 days, or by any one or more of such punishments. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
In addition to the penalties provided in subsection (a) of this section, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance, and may be abated by the city as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Code 1982, § 1-8)
Charter reference— Maximum penalty, court jurisdiction, § 15(b); organizing work gang, § 41.
State Law reference— Organization of correctional measures by cities, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8.
Sec. 1-13. - Official tree and official flower.
The Ginko is adopted as the official tree, and the Camellia is adopted as the official flower of the city.
(Code 1982, § 16-6)
