ARTICLE X. - CARE, PLACEMENT AND PROTECTION OF TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY AND CITY RIGHTS-OF-WAY[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2016-04, §§ I—IX, adopted April 11, 2016, did not specify manner of inclusion, hence, codification as §§ 34-401—34-409 was at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 34-401. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrator. The city manager or his designee who is responsible for the administration of the provisions of this ordinance.
Critical root zone. That area of tree roots around the tree measured to be no less than 1.2 feet in radius for every inch of trunk diameter measured four feet above the ground.
Public trees. Public trees are herein defined as trees in public parks and on public property at public facilities, and all area owned by the city and rights of way to which the public has free access.
Street trees. Street trees are herein defined as trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or rights-of-way within the city or lying within all rights-of-way of all streets, avenues, or ways within the city.
Topping. Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of tree limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
(Ord. No. 2016-04, § I, 4-11-2016; Ord. No. 2018-10, 6-11-2018)
Sec. 34-402. - Public tree protection and care.
Except as hereinafter provided, no person except a public utility shall cut, prune, injure or remove any living tree on or in a public highway, right-of-way, public park, public place, triangle, sidewalk, or other public property; or cut or disturb or interfere in any way with the roots of any tree on public property; or place any wire, rope, sign, poster, barricade, or other fixture on a tree on public property; or injure, misuse or remove any device placed to protect any such tree.
(Ord. No. 2016-04, § II, 4-11-2016)
Sec. 34-403. - Notification and penalties.
(a)
Any person who shall injure, damage or destroy any public tree situated upon the public right-of-way of any street, alley, sidewalk, park or other public property within the city shall promptly notify the city administrator of such fact and shall, within such reasonable time as specified by the city administrator, repair or replace the same to the satisfaction of the city administrator.
(b)
Should the person fail or refuse to repair or replace the damaged or destroyed trees or plants within such reasonable time, the city administrator shall do or cause to be done the necessary repairing or replacement, and the costs of this work shall be recovered from the person responsible for the damage or destruction by, a proper action of law. In any such action, "The Guide for Establishing Values of Trees and Other Plants," published by the Council of Trees and Landscape Appraisers, correct edition, shall form the basis for establishing any monetary damages due for damage or destruction to the tree. In addition, the city may recover for any other damages or losses to which it is entitled by law.
(Ord. No. 2016-04, § III, 4-11-2016)
Sec. 34-404. - City requirements.
The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the rights-of-way of all streets, parks, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. All tree work taking place on public property being conducted by contractors, sub-contractors, or county/city employees will conform to International Society of Arboriculture and ANSI 300 and Z-133 arboricultural standards for tree work.
It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or government entity/department to top any street tree, park tree, trench, cut, grade, clear, or fill within the critical root zone of any public tree or other tree on public property without the expressed written consent of the administrator. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this provision of this ordinance by receipt of written notification from the administrator for each instance allowing such actions.
(Ord. No. 2016-04, § IV, 4-11-2016)
Sec. 34-405. - Duties of the administrator.
It shall be the expressed duty of the administrator, when necessary, to issue public tree work permits, inspect tree work, require certain tree work to be performed, and enforce provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 2016-04, § V, 4-11-2016)
Sec. 34-406. - Creation and establishment of a city tree board.
There is hereby created and established a city tree board which shall consist of six members, residents of this city, one of each who shall be appointed by the mayor and by each councilman. The term of the six board members to be appointed by the mayor and individual council members shall be four years except that the term of half of the members appointed to the first board shall be for only one year and the term of other half of the members of the first board shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term. Members of the board shall serve without compensation (unless required by local regulation).
(1)
Tree board duties and responsibilities. It shall be the responsibility of the board to study and develop and update annually, specifications for the care, conservation, pruning, planting, and replanting of publicly owned trees and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in other public areas. The board, when requested by the city council, shall consider, investigate, make findings, and make recommendations upon any special matter or question coming within the scope of its work.
The board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations, and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(2)
Development of arboricultural specifications. The city tree board shall develop and maintain arboricultural specifications for tree care and replacement as follows:
a.
A list of desirable trees for planting along streets in three size classes based on mature height.
b.
The distance trees, may be planted from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in the arboricultural specifications.
c.
Specify that no tree, other than those particularly designated for planting under overhead lines by the tree board, shall be planted under or within ten feet of a line drawn vertically below any overhead utility wire or any recorded utility right of way of a greater width. Trees planted within 20 feet must be of a small species listed in the arboricultural specifications developed by the tree board.
(3)
Public education. It shall be the responsibility of the tree board to undertake a public Arbor Day planting activity and develop and/or secure and distribute tree care and tree benefit information as part of a city wide educational program.
(Ord. No. 2016-04, § VI, 4-11-2016)
Sec. 34-407. - Penalties for violations.
Any person violating any provision of this ordinance shall be, upon conviction or a plea of guilty, subject to a fine not to exceed $100.00 plus restitution for damages to public trees and property.
(Ord. No. 2016-04, § VII, 4-11-2016)
Sec. 34-408. - Emergency action.
It may become necessary, from time to time for emergency crews to prune or remove trees to provide for public safety or restore phone or electrical service. Such an action may be conducted by government, emergency or utility crews without permit so as to allow immediate action to prevent damage or correct a condition which may pose a hazard to life or property. The administrator shall be notified of any such action within 24 hours of the action being initiated, by the entity taking such action, for each instance of action.
(Ord. No. 2016-04, § VIII, 4-11-2016)
Sec. 34-409. - Indemnification.
Nothing contained in this ordinance shall be deemed to impose any liability upon the city, its officers or employees, nor to relieve the owner of any private property from the duty to keep any tree, shrub or plant upon any street tree area on his property or under his control in such condition as to prevent it from constituting a hazard or an impediment to travel or vision upon any public property or right-of-way or public place within the city.
(Ord. No. 2016-04, § IX, 4-11-2016)
