Chapter 10 - CEMETERIES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Cemetery and Funeral Services Act of 2000, O.C.G.A. § 10-14-1 et seq.; city as trustee of cemetery funds, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-4 et seq.

Sec. 10-1. - Management and supervision.
The responsibility for the management, operation, maintenance, and general supervision of all municipal cemeteries shall be vested in the mayor and council.
(Code 1998, § 24-101)
Sec. 10-2. - Superintendent of municipal cemeteries.
(a)
Appointment. The mayor and council may appoint a superintendent of municipal cemeteries, which officer shall be subject to removal at any time by the mayor and council.
(b)
Duties. The superintendent of municipal cemeteries shall have the following duties:
(1)
To look after and take proper care of all municipal cemeteries and see that no lot in any cemetery is used or occupied in violation of this chapter or of any rule or regulation promulgated by the mayor and city council;
(2)
To keep full and detailed accounts of the receipts and expenditures on account of the municipal cemeteries, and at least one time per month turn over to the city clerk/treasurer all monies collected on such accounts; and
(3)
To see to the digging of graves and to the proper entering of the dead when called upon to do so.
(Code 1998, § 24-102)
Sec. 10-3. - Purchase and conveyance of lots.
(a)
Records of ownership. The city clerk shall keep records of the ownership of all lot easements in the municipal cemeteries, of the burial capacity of each lot, of the location of each grave, of the names and ages of the persons buried in each grave that has been or shall hereafter be used, and of the date of burial of each.
(b)
Sale or transfer by owner. Owners of lots shall not be permitted to sell or transfer lots without the written consent and approval of the mayor and council.
(Code 1998, § 24-103)
Sec. 10-4. - Rules for interment.
No deceased person shall be interred in any municipal cemetery until the superintendent of municipal cemeteries has found:
(1)
The lot in which burial is to be made has been fully paid for;
(2)
The person arranging for such burial has the right to the use of such lot;
(3)
Such lot is not used beyond its capacity; and
(4)
Proper record is made of the name and age of the deceased person and of the exact location of the grave.
(Code 1998, § 24-104)
Sec. 10-5. - Restrictions on use.
(a)
Enclosures. No curbing, fencing, or enclosure of any sort shall be erected on, in, or around any burial lot in the cemetery, but the city reserves the right to erect curbing along the walks and driveways if it so desires.
(b)
Stones and monuments. Owners of cemetery lot easements shall have the right to erect proper stones or monuments marking the burial site, except that no slab shall be set other than in a horizontal position and flush with the ground.
(1)
Headstones shall not exceed two feet in height above the ground and 18 inches in width and shall be set in a solid concrete foundation.
(2)
Monuments of cut stone or marble shall not exceed ten feet in height and the erection of same must be authorized and supervised by the superintendent of municipal cemeteries.
(c)
Mausoleums. Mausoleums may be placed on the burial lots designated on the plat of a municipal cemetery as "memorial lots," by the holders thereof, subject to the following conditions:
(1)
Before erecting any mausoleum, the holder of such lot shall furnish complete plans and specifications to the city clerk/treasurer, for submission to the mayor and council, together with an application for permission to construct; and no mausoleum shall be erected until such application is approved.
(2)
A mausoleum shall be situated from the front line of the lot on which it is placed at a distance not less than the depth of the structure itself, and from all other sides of the lot at a distance equal to the greatest height of the structure.
(3)
No bodies shall be placed in any such mausoleum except in sealed caskets and in hermetically sealed compartments.
(Code 1998, § 24-105)
Sec. 10-6. - Regulations in general.
(a)
Trees and shrubs. No tree or shrub shall be planted, removed, cut down, or destroyed within the borders of any burial lot, walkway, or lawn space, without the consent of the superintendent of municipal cemeteries.
(b)
Injury to monuments. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, deface, or in any manner injure any monument, enclosure, mausoleum, or ornament thereof within any municipal cemetery.
(c)
Discharging firearms. It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot any gun, pistol, or other firearm within any municipal cemetery except at a funeral ceremony.
(d)
Depositing offensive matter. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit on any part of any cemetery or any land adjoining it any dead carcass or any putrid or offensive matter whatsoever.
(e)
Disorderly conduct. It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct himself in a boisterous or disorderly manner within the perimeter of any municipal cemetery.
(f)
Entering cemeteries at night. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter any municipal cemetery or walk upon or across any such cemetery between sunset and sunrise without the written consent of the superintendent of municipal cemeteries.
(g)
Advertisements. It shall be unlawful for any person to post any advertisement or sign, or to solicit any work in a municipal cemetery.
(h)
Unauthorized interments. It shall be unlawful for any person to inter any dead body in any part of a municipal cemetery without the express authorization of the superintendent of municipal cemeteries.
(i)
Disinterment. Disinterments shall be made only when authorized by the mayor and city council and the county board of health.
(Code 1998, § 24-106)
Sec. 10-7. - Authority of the city to regulate.
(a)
The mayor and city council reserve to themselves and their successors in office the right to alter, amend, modify or add to the rules, regulations, conditions, and restrictions herein set forth at any time it is deemed advisable so to do in order to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
(b)
There shall be no liability whatsoever, either tort or contractual, on the part of the city, or its officials or officers (or their successors in office), or its agents or employees, to any purchasers of any cemetery lots, or to any person holding under them, or to the family or relatives of any person buried in the cemetery, or to any person of the family of such person who has erected any monument, marker, or mausoleum therein, by reason of any acts, thing or things, omission, negligence, or otherwise relating to the cemetery. In accepting any conveyance of any burial lot, each purchaser agrees that all heirs and assigns shall hold such lot subject to all amendments hereto made by the mayor and city council.
(Code 1998, § 24-107)
Sec. 10-8. - Forfeiture and reclamation of abandoned cemetery lots.
Any lot in a cemetery owned by a municipality which has not been used for the interment of human remains and for which no provision for perpetual care has been made and the present owner is unknown and a period of at least 75 years has passed since any portion of the lot has been used for interment purposes, may be reclaimed by the owner of the cemetery, the governing authority or other officials having a contract over the cemetery. The method of forfeiture and reclamation shall be performed pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 44-5-211.
(Code 1998, § 24-108)
Sec. 10-9. - Authority of municipalities to preserve abandoned cemeteries.
Municipalities are authorized to preserve and protect any abandoned cemetery or any burial ground which the municipality determines has been abandoned or is not being maintained, to expend public money in connection therewith, and to exercise the power of eminent domain to acquire any interest in land necessary for that purpose.
(Code 1998, § 24-109)
