Chapter 70 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Ordinances pertaining to environment, ch. 26; ordinances pertaining to utilities, ch. 82; resolutions pertaining to utilities, ch. 178.
Local Constitutional Amendments and Local Acts reference—Solid waste, ch. 46.
State Law reference— Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.; Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 70-1—70-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2).

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 70-31. - Provisions for disposal by owners.
The owner of every lot or parcel embraced within the garbage districts herein created upon which is located any house, residence, building, apartment, tenement, or other structure served by the garbage collection and disposal facilities herein provided, shall:
(1)
Provide a closed garbage can or containers of such type and size as may be prescribed by the director of public works;
(2)
Cause to be placed therein all garbage and refuse from said property; and
(3)
Cause said containers to be placed and continuously maintained at such location on the property as directed by the director of public works.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-73)
Sec. 70-32. - Free disposal of recyclable goods and yard trimmings.
The board of commissioners hereby declares as its policy on the third Saturday of every month, residents of Fulton County will be allowed free disposal of recyclable goods and yard trimmings at the Merk/Miles Transfer Station.
(Res. No. 97-0815, 6-18-97)
Editor's note— Resolution No. 97-0815, adopted on June 18, 1997, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, its inclusion as § 70-32 was at the editor's discretion.
Secs. 70-33—70-65. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SPECIAL ASSESSMENT

Sec. 70-66. - Garbage disposal tax districts established.
The territories of Fulton County, as fixed and established from time to time by the board of commissioners requiring garbage collection and disposal facilities, shall constitute garbage collection and disposal tax districts.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-71)
Sec. 70-67. - Levy.
There is hereby levied annually for garbage collection and disposal service and for the purpose of establishing and maintaining garbage collection and disposal, against each lot or parcel of real property within garbage disposal districts upon which is located any house, residence, building, apartment, tenement or other structure, and against the owner thereof, assessments as follows, all of which shall have the lien, dignity, and priority, and be paid in the manner, as set forth in this division, and which shall be a lien against the respective properties, to wit: a charge equal to the charge paid by Fulton County under the contract for such services.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-72)
Sec. 70-68. - Basis for payment.
All sums due Fulton County for garbage service shall be payable on the three-month service basis. The director of public works shall keep complete records and shall notify, by ordinary mail, each property owner of his garbage assessment, but failure to receive such notice shall not affect the validity of the assessment imposed hereby. Payment shall be made not later than 30 days from the billing date for service rendered in the preceding three months.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-74)
Sec. 70-69. - Past due assessments; interest rate.
Past due assessments shall bear interest at the rate of interest paid on delinquent property taxes. Whenever any assessment shall remain unpaid for 60 days from the due date, an execution shall be issued therefor in the name of the board of commissioners and signed by the chairman of the board.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-75)
Sec. 70-70. - Executions against property and owner.
The execution authorized in section 70-69 shall issue in rem against the property described in the assessment roll, and in personam against the owner thereof, and shall include, in addition to the principal and interest, the sum of $5.00 for the issuance of the same.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-76)
Sec. 70-71. - Recording of executions.
Any executions for garbage assessments may be recorded on the general execution docket of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Fulton County and handed to the Sheriff of Fulton County for collection. No such execution shall be discharged unless all garbage assessments shall have been paid in full. Subsequent proceedings had thereon shall be as provided by law for the enforcement of executions for taxes.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-77)
Sec. 70-72. - Single fieri facias.
All past due claims of Fulton County against any property or person for garbage assessments shall be included in a single fi. fa., and it shall not be necessary for the public works department to issue separate fi. fa. for each quarter of service rendered, provided nothing herein shall invalidate any fi. fa. rendered for default in the payment of one quarter or any other circumstances, when the same is issued and recorded for the protection of the county's interest or the interest of any other person.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-78)
Sec. 70-73. - Purpose of assessments.
Assessments made herein against property within said districts are made for the benefit and service of improved properties, regardless of whether or not such house, residence, building, apartment, tenement, or structure is actually in use or is occupied.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-79)
Sec. 70-74. - Property relieved from assessment.
Property may be relieved from assessment upon the following conditions:
(1)
If the owner certifies that the property is permanently removed from residential use, the assessment will be canceled effective the next quarter, provided notice is given 15 days prior to the beginning of the quarter.
(2)
Thereafter, the owner may ask for renewed service and it will be furnished, provided he asks for service within 12 months and will pay the full charge from the date the service was canceled.
(3)
If he asks for service after 12 months, charges will begin at the beginning of the quarter in which service is requested.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-80)
Sec. 70-75. - Hardship.
Any person within a tax district created under the provisions of this division who, because of special circumstances, is unable to pay the tax levied therein may be relieved by the county commission from payment of the tax currently due; however, such outstanding tax shall be recorded as a lien against such person's property to be collected not later than the first sale of such property.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-81)
Secs. 70-76—70-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SERVICES

Sec. 70-81. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Collection means the aggregating of solid waste from its principal source and includes all activities up to such time as the solid waste is delivered to the place at which it is processed or disposed.
Commercial establishment means any hotel, motel, apartment building, roominghouse, business, industrial, public or semipublic establishment of any nature or kind whatsoever other than a one- or two-family dwelling unit or condominium.
Composting means the controlled biological decomposition of organic matter into a stable, odor-free humus.
Construction/demolition waste means discarded building materials and rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair and demolition operation of pavements, houses, commercial buildings and other structures. Such wastes include, but are not limited to, asbestos-containing waste, wood, bricks, metal, concrete, wallboard, paper, cardboard, inert waste, landfill material and other nonputrescible wastes which have a low potential for groundwater contamination.
Disposal facility means any facility or location where the final disposition of solid waste occurs, and includes but is not limited to landfill and solid waste thermal treatment technology facilities.
Dispose means to discharge, deposit, inject, dump, place or get rid of any solid waste into or on any land or water so that such solid waste or any constituent thereof may enter into the environment to transfer to the control of another.
Garbage means all household or domestic waste, including waste from the preparation and cooking of food, vegetable, fruit and meat scraps, ashes, cans and bottles, paper, floor sweepings, cardboard and other such material to be disposed of from residents, churches, schools, office buildings, business establishments and similar places.
Governing authority means Fulton County, its board of commissioners, and where delegated by the board of commissioners, the directors of the Fulton County Department of Public Works and the Fulton County Board of Health.
Hauling contractor means any person, firm, association, entity or organization who collects, removes or disposes of solid waste, other than his own, whether or not under a written contract and whether or not for compensation.
Illegal dumping means to dispose of any solid waste in a manner that is not in accordance with this division, state laws and federal regulations, rules and orders.
Industrial waste means solid waste generated by manufacturing or industrial processes or operations that is not a hazardous waste regulated under the Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act (O.C.G.A. § 12-8-60 et seq.). Such wastes include, but are not limited to, waste resulting from the following manufacturing processes: Electric poser generations; fertilizer and agricultural chemicals; food-related products; leather and leather products; nonferrous metal and foundry products; organic chemicals, plastics and resins; pulp and paper; rubber and miscellaneous plastic products; stone, glass, clay and concrete products; textiles; transportation equipment; and water treatment. This term does not include mining waste or oil and gas waste.
Landfill means a method of disposing of solid waste, other than putrescible waste or hazardous wastes, on land by placing an earth cover thereon.
Open dump means a disposal facility of which solid waste from one or more sources is consolidated and left to decompose, burn or otherwise create a threat to human health or the environment.
Owner means any person, firm or corporation owning, leasing, renting, occupying, or managing any premises in the jurisdiction of the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County.
Person means any individual, trust, firm, association, joint-stock company, corporation (including a government corporation), partnership, organization, municipality, commission or county, or any agency, board, department or bureau of this state or any other state or of the federal government.
Plastic bag means a polyethylene or other heavy duty plastic bag meeting the National Sanitation Foundation Standard of at least 1.5 mils and not exceeding a 30-gallon capacity, with securing twist ties.
Putrescible waste means wastes that are capable of being decomposed by microorganisms. Examples of putrescible waste include but are not necessarily limited to kitchen wastes, animal manure, offal, hatchery and poultry wastes, and garbage.
Recovered material means those materials which have known use, reuse or recycling potential; can be feasibly used, reused or recycled; and have been diverted or removed from the solid waste stream for sale, use, reuse or recycling, whether or not requiring subsequent separation and processing.
Recycling means any process by which materials which would otherwise become solid waste are collected, separated or processed and reused or returned to use in the form of raw materials or products.
Registered contractor means a hauling contractor duly registered by the Fulton County Department of Public Works as having met all criteria necessary to provide solid waste handling in unincorporated Fulton County.
Residential unit means any freestanding structure or shelter or any part thereof used or constructed for use as a residence for one family.
Sanitary landfill means a disposal site where putrescible solid wastes are disposed of by means of placing an earth cover thereon and which is approved by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources for such purposes.
Solid waste means any garbage, construction/demolition waste, industrial waste, industrial putrescible waste, sludge from a wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility; and other discarded material including solid, semisolid or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural operations and community activities, but does not include recovered materials; solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage; solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges that are point sources subject to permit under 33 U.S.C. 1342; or source, special unclear or byproduct material as defined by the federal Atomic Energy Act of 1954, amended (68 Stat. 923).
Solid waste handling means the storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing or disposal of solid waste or any combination of such activities.
Solid waste handling facility means any facility, the primary purpose of which is the storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing or disposal, or any combination thereof, of solid waste. Such a facility shall not include one handling the processing of recovered material.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance other than mining, agricultural and silvicultural operations.
(Ord. No. 96-1223, art. IV, 12-4-96; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 70-82. - Enactment authority.
The Board of Commissioners of Fulton County, Georgia, under the authority of Article 9, Section 2, Paragraphs 1 and III of the Constitution of the State of Georgia (1983) and O.C.G.A. tit. 12, ch. 8, art. 2 (O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.), hereby ordains and enacts into law this division.
(Ord. No. 96-1223, art. I, 12-4-96)
Sec. 70-83. - Purpose of division.
The Fulton County Board of Commissioners hereby declares the purposes of this division are to:
(1)
Establish a uniform, equitable and consistent procedure for regulating the collection and disposal of solid waste in unincorporated Fulton County;
(2)
Comply with the Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act (O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.), as amended, including reducing of the amount of solid waste entering landfills by 25 percent and the beneficial reuse of yard trimmings;
(3)
Protect the public health, safety and welfare of its citizens and the environment;
(4)
Establish minimum standards for residential collection of solid waste by hauling contractors; and
(5)
Prohibit illegal dumping of solid waste in unincorporated Fulton County.
(Ord. No. 96-1223, art. III, 12-4-96)
Sec. 70-84. - Scope of division.
(a)
General. The provisions of this division apply to all persons presently engaged in solid waste handling in unincorporated Fulton County and all hauling contractors doing business or proposing to do business in unincorporated Fulton County.
(1)
This division shall apply to unincorporated Fulton County only.
(2)
No person shall engage in solid waste handling except in such manner as to conform to and comply with this division and all applicable Fulton County, state and federal legislation, rules, regulations and orders.
(3)
No solid waste may be disposed of by any person in an open dump, nor may any person cause, suffer, allow or permit open dumping on his property as defined by the Rules of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, EPD, chapter 391-3-4-04.
(4)
No owner or occupant shall allow the accumulation of solid waste on premises under his or her control or about his or her residential unit or commercial establishment, where such solid waste creates or may create a health hazard to neighbors or other citizens, or is unsightly, or emits foul, unpleasant or harmful odors which constitute either a public or private nuisance.
(5)
It shall be a violation of this division for any person to place or cause to be placed for collection, any acid, explosive material, inflammable liquids or dangerous or corrosive material of any kind.
(6)
It shall be a violation of this division to dispose of any solid waste by illegal dumping on public rights-of-way, public parks or any public facilities in unincorporated Fulton County.
(7)
It shall be a violation of this division to place yard trimmings in or mixed with solid waste.
(8)
It shall be a violation of this division to place yard trimmings in plastics bags for collection.
(9)
Neither operation nor application of this division shall be waived, abridged or otherwise limited in scope or effect by any contract between hauling contractors, customers or any other person falling within the jurisdiction of this division; nor shall this division grant, bestow or otherwise guarantee any rights not contained in any such contract, nor expose Fulton County to any liability whatsoever.
(b)
Persons. All persons shall engage in solid waste handling in unincorporated Fulton County in the manner proscribed in this division.
(1)
Solid waste handling within unincorporated Fulton County shall be conducted only by hauling contractors duly registered with the Fulton County Department of Public Works, unless otherwise exempt by section 70-85.
(2)
Failure by a resident to provide evidence (receipts, contracts, canceled checks or other proof of payment) of proper disposal upon request by Fulton County officials shall be a violation of this division, punishable as set forth in section 70-89.
(c)
Hauling contractors. No person shall collect and/or dispose of solid waste for a fee in unincorporated Fulton County without first obtaining all required permits and registering with the Fulton County Department of Public Works.
(Ord. No. 96-1223, art. V, 12-4-96)
Sec. 70-85. - Exemptions from division.
(a)
Provisions of this division shall not apply to any resident of unincorporated Fulton County disposing of solid waste in a manner that is not conducive to insect and rodent infestation or the harboring and feeding of wild dogs or other animals; impairs the air quality; impairs the quality of the groundwater or surface water; impairs the quality of the environment; or is likely to create other hazards to the public health, safety or wellbeing as may be determined by the director of public works or his or her designee or the director of the Fulton County Board of Health or his/her designee, and the resident is:
(1)
Disposing of solid waste originating from the resident's primary home onto land or facilities owned by the resident; or
(2)
Disposing of solid waste by self-hauling directly to a disposal facility or to a commercial establishment owned by the resident.
(b)
This division shall not apply to any person disposing of livestock feeding facility waste from facilities with a total capacity of up to 1,000 cattle or 5,000 swine. If such person shall provide an approved waste disposal system which is capable of properly disposing of the runoff from a 25-year storm and which complies with the environmental protection division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources solid waste regulations, such person shall be further exempt regardless of total per head capacity. Nothing in this division shall limit the right of any person to use poultry or other animal manure for fertilizer.
(c)
Composting of yard trimmings is expressly allowed or permitted pursuant to this division.
(d)
Dead animals shall be disposed of pursuant to state law.
(Ord. No. 96-1223, art. VI, 12-4-96; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
Sec. 70-86. - Registration and reporting.
(a)
General. All hauling contractors must meet the minimum requirements annually as are set forth in this division in order to engage in solid waste handling within unincorporated Fulton County.
(b)
Registration requirements. During any time that hauling contractors are engaging in solid waste handling in unincorporated Fulton County, hauling contractors must have registered with the Fulton County Department of Public Works by obtaining and providing the following terms:
(1)
EPD permit. A solid waste handling permit from the director of the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources or any successor agency authorized to issue permits pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-8-24.
(2)
Fulton County Board of Health Permit. A copy of the permit required by the Fulton County Board of Health pursuant to chapter 34 of this Code and the Fulton County Board of Health Rules and Regulations.
(3)
Insurance. Provide to the Fulton County Department of Public Works proof of insurance as follows:
a.
Comprehensive general liability insurance: $500,000.00.
b.
Vehicle liability:
1.
$500,000.00 limit per occurrence for bodily injury and property damage.
2.
Comprehensive covering all owned, nonowned and hired vehicles.
3.
All insurance contracts must specify vehicles for solid waste collection.
c.
Umbrella liability insurance coverage with a broad primary coverage in an amount of $1,000,000.00.
All comprehensive general liability, vehicle liability and umbrella liability policies shall be maintained and shall remain effective for the full duration of registration.
(4)
Performance bond. All hauling contractors shall, prior to engaging in solid waste handling in unincorporated Fulton County, post with the department of public works a performance bond in the amount of $10,000.00. Alternatively, hauling contractors may provide an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of $10,000.00 in lieu of bond.
(5)
Indemnification. Registered contractors shall certify to Fulton County by duly notarized letter that it will, at its sole cost and expense, fully indemnify, defend and hold harmless the county, its officers, boards, commissioners, employees and agents against any and all claims, suits, actions, liability and judgments from third parties, its affiliates, its subsidiaries or agents, including subcontractors for damages which may be the result of willful, negligent or tortious conduct or operations arising out of the business of collection, transportation and disposal of solid waste, whether or not the action or omission complained of is authorized, allowed or prohibited by this division or is covered by insurance or a performance bond.
(c)
Reporting requirements. Within 30 days following the close of each quarter of operation, registered contractors shall submit to the director of the department of public works or his or her designee for reporting to the Georgia Department of Community Affairs, reports of operation showing the following for unincorporated portions of Fulton County:
(1)
Tonnage figures showing total solid waste tonnage collected for household garbage and trash; and
(2)
Documentation showing that yard trimmings and recyclables collected are being processed as recovered material.
(Ord. No. 96-1223, art. VII, 12-4-96; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
Sec. 70-87. - Service requirements.
(a)
Residential services. All registered contractors for solid waste handling shall provide the minimum following services:
(1)
Weekly curbside collection of solid waste.
(2)
At least once every other week curbside recycling, including container, and yard trimmings collection. Handling of yard trimmings in unincorporated Fulton County shall be carried out in accordance with the following restrictions:
a.
Yard trimmings shall not be placed in or mixed with solid waste.
b.
Yard trimmings shall not be disposed of in solid waste disposal facilities that have liners and leachate collection systems or that require vertical expansion.
c.
Yard trimmings shall be sorted and stored for collection in a manner that facilitates collection, composting or other lawful handling. Collection of yard trimmings in plastic bags is prohibited.
d.
Upon collection, yard trimmings shall be sorted and stockpiled until they are recycled ultimately by chipping, mulching, composting or other beneficial use.
e.
Landfill disposal of yard trimmings is prohibited.
(3)
Inoperative, privately used, worn out household appliances (e.g., refrigerators, stoves, air conditioning units, washing machines, dryers) and discarded furniture shall be collected at the curbside as needed by the registered contractor, at an agreed-upon fee between the registered contractor and the customer.
(4)
Nothing in this division is intended to prohibit the registered contractor from offering discounts or additional services to senior citizens 65 years or older or the disabled.
(5)
Nothing in this division shall prevent customers from contracting with registered contractors for additional services.
(6)
Registered contractors are encouraged to offer incentive-based pricing in order to increase participation in curbside recycling.
(b)
Commercial services. Hauling contractors performing commercial services are subject to the same requirements of solid waste registration under section 70-86 as hauling contractors perform residential services. However, when hauling contractors are engaged in the performance of commercial services, they are not required to comply with the minimum standards set forth in subsection (a) of this section, nor the bonding requirements of subsection 70-86(b)(4).
(c)
List of registered contractors. A list of all current registered contractors will be available for public inspection in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners and in the department of public works at all times.
(Ord. No. 96-1223, art. VIII, 12-4-96; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
Sec. 70-88. - Termination/revocation of registration and/or permits.
(a)
General. Registration may be terminated by mutual agreement of Fulton County and the registered contractor. Registered contractors shall terminate registration by giving 30 days' notice to the director of the department of public works as well as its customers prior to such termination.
(b)
The director of public works. The director of public works shall notify the registered contractor of violations of this division. If the registered contractor fails to comply with any of the provisions of this division within seven days of notification, or at the discretion of the director of the department of public works, a hearing shall be held before the director of public works, with the registered contractor being notified in writing of the time and place of the hearing and the violation of this division which has not been corrected. The registered contractor shall be given the opportunity to appear by representative or counsel to answer any such charge by the director of public works or his/her designee. Should the director of public works determine that any of the provisions of this division have been violated by the registered contractor, the director of public works shall have at his/her discretion, after the findings of the hearing, the right to render a decision revoking registration or provide for probation of the registered contractor within seven days of the decision of the director of public works. The registered contractor shall have the right to appeal in writing the decision of the director of public works to the county manager or his/her designee within seven days of the decision of the director of public works. A hearing shall be held by the county manager. The decision of the director of public works shall be held in abeyance pending the final decision of the county manager. After such hearing, the decision of the county manager shall be final. At the discretion of the county manager, the registered contractor shall be deemed to have forfeited his/her performance bond. The director of public works shall be instructed to proceed with calling the bond or any part thereof to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to remedy the violations of this division as he/she deems fit.
(Ord. No. 96-1223, art. IX, 12-4-96; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
Sec. 70-89. - Penalties for violation of division.
(a)
In addition to the provisions of section 70-88, any person violating any provision of this division may be fined up to $500.00 per violation after a hearing in the Fulton County Environmental Court or Magistrate Court. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
(b)
Fulton County, upon violation of the provisions of this division, shall be entitled to take such remedial action to ensure compliance, and any person convicted shall reimburse Fulton County for any cost or expense associated with compliance efforts, and Fulton County shall be entitled to place a lien on the property to secure payment and reimbursement for these expenses.
(c)
Any hauling contractor who is found to have violated any of the provisions of this division by the Fulton County Environmental Court or Magistrate Court shall be subject to the same penalties in this section and may also be restrained from operating as a registered contractor and a civil action may be filed by the governing authority.
(Ord. No. 96-1223, art. X, 12-4-96; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
State Law reference— Maximum punishments which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b).
Sec. 70-90. - Enforcement of division.
(a)
Violations of any provisions of this division shall be reported initially to the director of the department of public works or his or her designee, who is charged with the administration of all sections of this division.
(b)
The provisions of this division regarding the issuance of health department permits shall be enforced by the Fulton County Board of Health.
(c)
The provisions of this division regarding solid waste handling shall be enforced by the Fulton County Department of Public Works with assistance as needed from the Fulton County Police Department and the Fulton County Board of Health.
(d)
The provisions of this division regarding application for and termination of registration shall be enforced by the department of public works.
(e)
The provisions of this division regarding the disposal or onsite burial of solid waste shall be enforced by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources Environmental Protection Division of the department of public works.
(Ord. No. 96-1223, art. XI, 12-4-96; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
Sec. 70-91. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this division is declared or adjudged unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect any other section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase which shall remain in full force and effect as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof.
(Ord. No. 96-1223, art. XII, 12-4-96; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
Sec. 70-92. - Repeal of conflicting ordinances.
All ordinances, resolutions and parts of ordinances or resolutions in direct conflict with this division are hereby repealed.
(Ord. No. 96-1223, art. XIII, 12-4-96; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
Sec. 70-93. - Liability.
Neither the approval or granting of registration under the provisions of this division, nor the compliance with the provisions of this division shall relieve any person from the responsibility for damage to any person or property otherwise imposed by law nor impose any liability upon the governing authority for damage to any person or property.
(Ord. No. 96-1223, art. XIV, 12-4-96; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
Sec. 70-94. - Board of health rules and regulations.
The Fulton County Board of Health Rules and Regulations for Solid Waste are incorporated into this division by reference.
(Ord. No. 96-1223, art. XV, 12-4-96; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, adopted May 16, 2018, changed the title of § 70-94 from "health department rules" to "board of health rules and regulations."
FULTON COUNTY
SOLID WASTE/RECYCLABLES VOLUME REPORTS
FOR PERIOD OF ___________ TO ___________
EXPAND
Tonnage Name of
Facilities
Used
Total Tons of Solid Waste _____ _____
_____
Documentation for recycling and yard trimmings Yes _____
No _____
Name of Company _____
Prepared by _____
Date ___________
  TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:
The bearer of this letter, ___________ d.b.a., ___________ with a business address of ___________ having met the registration requirements of section 70-86 of the Code of Ordinances of Fulton County, Georgia, i.e., solid waste handling permit, by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division and permitted by the Fulton County Health Department, is hereby duly registered as a solid waste hauling contractor for unincorporated Fulton County as long as there is continued conformance with the requirements of chapter 78, article II, division 3 of the Code of Ordinances of Fulton County, Georgia.
Sincerely,
Andrew Jenkins
Director of Public Works
Secs. 70-95—70-105. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - SANITARY LANDFILLS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Landfills, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-24 et seq.

Sec. 70-106. - Violations of article; misdemeanor.
(a)
Any person found to be violating any provision of this article shall be served written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, take all necessary action to correct the violation and shall permanently cease such violations.
(b)
Any person who intentionally violates any provision of this article and who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided for the satisfactory correction thereof, and any person who fails to cease all work after a stop order has been issued on a project shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day in which a violation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this article shall be punished in the manner prescribed by law for misdemeanors, and shall further reimburse the county for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the county by reason of such violation.
(d)
Persons designated by the director of public works and/or the director of inspections and permits are hereby authorized to issue citations or summonses, or both, charging violations under this article, returnable to the State Court of Fulton County, or to any other court having the jurisdiction of a commitment court throughout the entire county, for trial.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-96)
State Law reference— Punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; maximum punishments which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b).
Sec. 70-107. - Posting of article provisions.
Copies of this article shall be posted in a conspicuous manner on every Fulton County Sanitary Landfill Site to which this article shall apply.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-97)
Sec. 70-108. - Trespassing.
No person shall knowingly and without authority enter upon the land or premises, now or in the future, designed as a sanitary landfill site without the express permission of the director of public works or his delegate; nor shall any person knowingly and without authority remain upon the land or premises, now or in the future, designed as a sanitary landfill site, after the permission of the director of the department of public works or his delegate has been withdrawn.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-91)
State Law reference— Trespass, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-21.
Sec. 70-109. - Scavenging.
No person shall knowingly and without authority remove any material from the land or premises now or in the future designed as a sanitary landfill site including, but not limited to, material constituting residential and commercial solid waste, trash, tin cans, glass bottles, garbage, rubbish, discarded materials, sand, gravel, slag, or other refuse.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-92)
Sec. 70-110. - Unauthorized burning.
No person shall knowingly and without authority, by means of fire or explosive, cause any burning of any material including, but not limited to, those materials described in section 70-109 on the land or premises now or in the future designated as a sanitary landfill site; nor shall any person knowingly or without authority start or maintain any fire or other burning on the land or premises now or in the future designated as a sanitary landfill site.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-93)
Sec. 70-111. - Moving equipment.
No person shall knowingly and without authority employ any means to move or relocate or otherwise cause any transportation of any heavy equipment or machinery including, but not limited to, trucks, bulldozers, graders, or other motorized vehicles located on the land or premises, now or in the future, designated as a sanitary landfill site.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-94)
Sec. 70-112. - Fees.
Fees for the disposal of garbage and refuse at the county landfills shall be as fixed from time to time by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-95)
