ARTICLE II. - COMMUNITY ZONING BOARD[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Res. No. 01-0597, § 1, adopted June 20, 2001, amended the title of article II to read as herein set out. See the Code Comparative Table—Ordinances and Resolutions.
Cross reference— Boards, commissions, etc., § 102-601 et seq.

Sec. 58-36. - Membership; composition; appointment; terms; vacancies; removal.
The county board of commissioners shall appoint seven members to a community zoning board for unincorporated Fulton County. Appointments shall be made as follows:
Each member of the county board of commissioners shall nominate, for full board approval, a member to the community zoning board. All members shall be residents of the county. The community zoning board shall review and make recommendations to the board of commissioners (as such powers are defined in this chapter) regarding properties located within, and matters affecting, unincorporated Fulton County. Members of the community zoning board will be provided periodic training, as determined by the director of the department of environment and community development.
From the membership of the community zoning board, the board of commissioners shall appoint a chair and vice-chair, to serve no more than two years. The vice-chair may be appointed to the duties of the chair when deemed necessary by emergency or when the chair is no longer able to perform those duties assigned, as determined by the board of commissioners. The duty of the chair shall be to conduct the meetings in accordance with the procedures set forth herein, and the vice-chair shall conduct the meetings in the chair's absence. The members shall serve a term consistent with that of the member of the board of commissioners making the nomination. Members shall serve no more than two terms, either consecutive or non-consecutive.
Members of the community zoning board serve at the pleasure of the board of commissioners and may be removed upon motion of the nominating commissioner and affirmative vote of a majority of the board of commissioners. No member of the community zoning board shall hold any other appointive or elective public office or position in unincorporated Fulton County during such member's term. Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term of such vacancy in the same manner as the original appointment. An appointment to fill any vacancy on the community zoning board shall be for the remainder of the unexpired term of office. Compensation of the members of the community zoning board shall be fixed by the members of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-11; 94-RC-212, 4-20-94; Res. No. 01-0597, § 2, 6-20-01)
Sec. 58-37. - Organization; rules; staff; officers; finances.
The community zoning board shall meet at least once each zoning cycle, at the call of the chair, or at such other times as the community zoning board may determine necessary, following, at a minimum, all standards set forth in the Georgia Open Meetings Act.
In addition to the powers set forth in section 58-38, the community zoning board shall review rezoning and use permit applications for property located within unincorporated Fulton County and, in this regard, shall perform the functions of planning commissions as may be required by state law. Corrected or amended documents, including plans and drawings, to be presented to the community zoning board for consideration during a public hearing must be provided to county staff no later than the close of business ten business days prior to the regularly scheduled meeting of the community zoning board. Presentation of new documents not processed by staff in the manner described herein shall not be considered by the community zoning board.
Community zoning board meetings shall include a public hearing on each item, during which both the applicant and any persons opposed to the application may make presentations. Said presentations shall be ten minutes in length for each side, unless otherwise extended by the chair. Rebuttal by either party will be allowed, as will a final statement by the applicant, if the applicants ten minute time allotment permits. In addition, members of the community zoning board may ask questions of any interested person present at the hearing.
At the close of the public hearing for each item, the chair of the community zoning board shall call the members to order for consideration and voting on the issue currently before them. The vote of the community zoning board shall be for one of the following recommendations to the board of commissioners only: 1) approval as presented by the applicant; 2) approval as recommended by staff; 3) deferral, if such deferral is the recommendation of staff; 4) denial; or 5) conditional approval subject to staff's review of a private agreement between the applicant and adjacent or nearby property owners. The community zoning board shall present a written report to the board of commissioners within 14 business days after its meeting to report its findings and recommendations from said meeting.
The community zoning board shall adhere to these rules for the transaction of business and keep a record of its transactions, findings, and determinations, which shall be a public record.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-12; Res. No. 01-0597, § 3, 6-20-01)
Sec. 58-38. - Principal powers and duties.
It shall be the function and duty of the community zoning board to make recommendation(s) for action by the board of commissioners on the following: All applications for rezonings, applications for use permits, amendments to the text of the county's zoning resolution, and amendments to the text of the county's comprehensive plan and the associated plan map; provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall prevent the board of commissioners from hereafter assigning other duties to the community zoning board.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-13; Res. No. 01-0597, § 4, 6-20-01)
Secs. 58-39—58-42. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Res. No. 01-0597, §§ 5—8, adopted June 20, 2001, repealed §§ 58-39—58-42 in their entirety. Formerly, said sections pertained to miscellaneous powers; reports on matters referred to it; comprehensive plan and transfer of functions, respectively, as related to the former planning commission. See the Code Comparative Table—Ordinances and Resolutions.
Secs. 58-43—58-75. - Reserved.
