ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS AND REMOVAL

Section 5.10. - Applicability of general law.
All primaries and elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," as now or hereafter amended.
Section 5.11. - Election of the governing body.
(a)
There shall be a municipal general election in the odd-numbered years on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November.
(b)
There shall be elected the mayor and two councilmembers at one election and at every other regular election thereafter. The remaining council seats shall be filled at the election alternating with the first election so that a continuing body is created. Terms shall be for four years.
(c)
At the regular election in 2013 a mayor shall be elected to take office on January 1, 2014.
(d)
At the regular election in 2013, two councilmembers shall be elected to succeed the councilmembers from Wards One and Four whose terms expire December 31, 2013. Said councilmembers shall take office on January 1, 2014, for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(e)
At the regular election in 2015, three councilmembers shall be elected to succeed the councilmembers from Wards Two, Three, and Five whose terms expire December 31, 2015. Said councilmembers shall take office on January 1, 2016, for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(f)
Subsequent elections shall comply with subsection (b) of Section 5.11 of this charter.
Section 5.12. - Election by majority.
The mayor and councilmembers shall be elected by a majority vote of the voters of the entire City of Gainesville voting at the election. The person receiving a majority of the votes cast for any city office shall be elected.
Section 5.13. - Special elections; vacancies.
In the event that the office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant as provided in Section 2.13 of this charter, the governing body or those remaining shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such official; provided, however, if such vacancy occurs within 12 months of the expiration of the term of that office, the governing body or those remaining shall appoint a successor for the remainder of the term. In all other respects, the special election shall be held and conducted in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," as now or hereafter amended.
Section 5.14. - Wards.
(a)
For the purposes of electing the five councilmembers, the territory of the City of Gainesville shall be divided into five wards to be designated respectively as Wards One through Five. One councilmember shall be a resident of each ward. The boundaries of the five wards shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by law. The boundaries of each ward at all times shall be shown on a map, a written description, or any combination thereof, to be retained in the office of the city clerk and to be designated, as the case may be: "Official Map (or Description) of the Election Wards of the City of Gainesville, Georgia." Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or description certified by the city clerk shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
(b)
The governing body shall review the boundaries of the wards established by this section following each United States decennial census. Within a reasonable time after each such census, the governing body shall cause adjustments to be made to the boundary lines of such wards as may be necessary to maintain, as near as practicable, equal population for each of said wards, or reapportion the boundary lines of such wards, if necessary and as authorized by law.
Section 5.15. - Other provisions.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the governing body shall, by ordinance, prescribe such rules and regulations it deems appropriate to fulfill any options and duties under Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code."
Section 5.16. - Removal of officers.
(a)
The mayor or councilmembers provided for in this charter shall be removed from office for any one or more of the causes provided in Title 45 of the O.C.G.A. or such other provisions within this charter or other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(b)
Removal of an elected official or appointed officer for violations pursuant to subsection (a) of this section or violations as otherwise provided for in this charter shall be accomplished by one of the following methods:
(1)
Following a hearing at which an impartial panel shall render a decision. In the event an elected official or appointed officer is sought to be removed by the action of the governing body, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground or grounds for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten days after the service of such written notice. The governing body shall provide by ordinance for the manner in which such hearings shall be held. Any elected officer sought to be removed from office as herein provided shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the governing body to the Superior Court of Hall County. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from the probate court; or
(2)
By an order of the Superior Court of Hall County following a hearing on a complaint seeking such removal brought by any resident of the City of Gainesville.
