CHAPTER 3-1. - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[2]
ARTICLE 1. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 3-1-1. - Powers of mayor—Declaration of emergency; specification of emergency area.
(a)
In addition to all other powers enumerated in this Code, the mayor may declare an emergency to exist when, in his opinion, one (1) or more of the following conditions exist:
(1)
There is extreme likelihood of danger of destruction of life or property due to unusual conditions.
(2)
Unusual or extreme weather conditions, making the use of city streets or areas difficult or impossible.
(3)
Civil unrest, commotion or uprising is imminent or exists.
(4)
There is a stoppage or loss of electrical power affecting a major portion of the city.
(b)
The declaration of an emergency as to a portion of the city shall specify with exactness the area in which the emergency is declared to exist.
(Code 1958, § 2-02)
State Law reference— Offenses against public order and safety, OCGA § 16-11-1 et seq.; calling out state militia during invasion or insurrection, OCGA § 45-12-28.
Sec. 3-1-2. - Same—Powers specified; duration of emergency.
(a)
After declaration of such emergency the mayor, as chief executive, shall have the right to exercise any or all of the following:
(1)
The power to use employees of the city to assist in the safety and preservation of life, limb and property of citizenry of the city.
(2)
The power to close streets and sidewalks and to delineate areas within the city wherein an emergency exists.
(3)
The power to impose emergency curfew regulations.
(4)
The power to close business establishments within the affected area.
(5)
The power to close any and all municipallyowned buildings and other facilities to the use of the general public.
(6)
The power to do any and all acts necessary and incidental to the preservation of life, limb and property of the citizenry of the city.
(b)
No emergency power set forth herein may be effective for more than seventy-two (72) hours after the declaration of an emergency by the mayor. However upon declaration of a second or further emergencies to exist, the emergency powers as set forth herein may be exercised during such further emergency period or periods, but never for more than seventy-two (72) hours in one (1) declared emergency period.
(c)
No emergency period shall extend beyond the next regular, special or called meeting of the city council.
(Code 1958, § 2-03)
Secs. 3-1-3—3-1-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 2. - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[3]

Sec. 3-1-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Civil emergency means:
(1)
A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of force or violence or the threat of riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of force or violence.
(2)
Any civil disturbance or threat of civil disturbance to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the city.
Curfew means a prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the city, excepting persons officially assigned to duty with reference to a civil emergency.
(Code 1958, § 14-1.2)
State Law reference— Offenses against public order, OCGA § 16-11-30 et seq.
Sec. 3-1-22. - Declaration.
When in the judgment of the mayor, or any council member acting for him in his absence, a civil emergency is deemed to exist he shall forthwith proclaim in writing the existence of same.
(Code 1958, § 14-1.3)
Sec. 3-1-23. - Imposition of curfew.
After proclamation of a civil emergency the city council may order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the city or the city as a whole as it deems advisable and such curfew shall be applicable during such hours of the day or night as it deems necessary in the interest of public safety and welfare.
(Code 1958, § 14-1.4)
Sec. 3-1-24. - Powers of city council.
After proclamation of a civil emergency, the city council may also in the interest of public safety and welfare make any or all of the following orders:
(1)
Private clubs. Order the closing of all private clubs.
(2)
Gasoline. Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
(3)
Gasoline stations. Order the closing of gasoline stations and other establishments, the chief activity of which is the sale, distributing, or giving away gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products.
(4)
Firearms. Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
(5)
Firearms establishments. Order the closing of any or all establishments or portions thereof, the chief activity of which is the sale, distribution, dispensing or giving away of firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
(6)
Protection of life and property. Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection of life and property.
(Code 1958, § 14-1.5)
Sec. 3-1-25. - Closing of streets.
After the proclamation of a civil emergency the chief of police shall have the authority to temporarily close any and all streets, alleys and other public ways in the city to the public whenever, in the opinion of the chief of police, it is necessary in order to maintain the public safety and welfare of said community.
(Code 1958, § 14-1.6)
Cross reference— Streets and sidewalks, Ch. 4-4.
Sec. 3-1-26. - Penalty.
Any person violating the provisions of this article, or any order issued pursuant thereto, shall be guilty of an offense against the city and shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-7.
(Code 1958, § 14-1.7)
Secs. 3-1-27—3-1-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 3. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[4]

Sec. 3-1-46. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for and carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions other than those functions for which military forces or other state and federal agencies are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of man-made or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, law enforcement and police services, medical and health services, rescue services, engineering services, warning services, communications, defense from radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out the foregoing functions.
Energy emergency means a condition of danger to the health, safety, welfare or economic well-being of the citizens of this city arising out of a present or threatened shortage of usable energy resources; also any condition of substantial danger to the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of this city resulting from the operation of any electrical power-generating facility, the transport of any energy resource by any means whatsoever, or the production, use or disposal of any source material, special nuclear material, or by-product, as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 68 Stat. 919, 42 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.; also any nuclear incident, as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, occurring within or outside this city, substantially affecting the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of this city.
(Code 1958, § 8-1; Ord. No. 90-40, § 1, 9-4-90)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, OCGA § 38-3-3.
Sec. 3-1-47. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this article, or any rules, orders or regulations made pursuant to this article, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section 1-1-7.
(Code 1958, § 8-6; Ord. No. 90-40, § 1, 9-4-90)
Sec. 3-1-48. - Office established; appointment, general duties of county emergency management director/coordinator.
In agreement with the governing officials within the county, there is hereby established the Hall County Emergency Management Office. The commissioners of Hall County and the city council shall jointly nominate, for appointment by the governor, a director/coordinator of emergency management for the entire county. When appointed, the emergency management director/coordinator is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the city and county therein on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
To assist the city, the county and other officials in organizing city, county and all other governmental departments for emergency operations.
(3)
To develop, in conjunction with all county and city departments and other governmental agencies, the county plan for the emergency functions set forth in this chapter. Such plan will be in consonance with the state natural disaster operations plan and nuclear emergency operations plan, and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the city and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
To maintain the emergency management office and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
To submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices.
(6)
To produce, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operations center.
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the county emergency operations center staff during periods of a declared emergency, and under the supervision of county and city governing officials.
(Code 1958, § 8-2; Ord. No. 90-40, § 1, 9-4-90)
Cross reference— General government, Tit. 1.
State Law reference— State director of emergency management, OCGA § 38-3-20 et seq.; plans and programs for emergency management, OCGA § 38-3-22; local organizations for emergency management, OCGA § 38-3-27.
Sec. 3-1-49. - Emergency management organization.
(a)
The county emergency management organization shall be established around the existing county and city departments and other agencies and the emergency functions listed in section 3-4-1 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department Emergency Functions
(1) Executive:
County commissioners
City council members Direction and control, public information, supply, finance
(2) Police service (law enforcement):
County sheriff's department
Gainesville police department Security, movement, search
(3) Communications:
Central communications Communications, warning
(4) Fire control:
County fire department
Gainesville fire department Fire control, rescue
(5) Public works and engineering:
County public works
City engineering department Utility and public services restoration, hazards analysis, emergency transportation
(6) Human resources including Human needs, including welfare
a. Department of family and children services
b. Division of physical health
c. Hospital services
d. Ambulance services
(EMS)
(7) Damage assessment:
County tax assessors Damage assessment
(8) Emergency management Shelter, radiological defense, assistance in industrial emergency planning, evacuation planning
  (b)
Heads of departments listed above are responsible for developing the plan for their assigned emergency functions. Such plans will be submitted through the emergency management director/coordinator to the city and to the county commission and other governing officials for approval.
(Code 1958, § 8-3; Ord. No. 90-40, § 1, 9-4-90)
Cross reference— General government, Tit. 1.
State Law reference— Local emergency management regulations, OCGA § 38-3-28.
Sec. 3-1-50. - Emergency powers.
In the event of manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the chairman of the county commission, and/or mayor, or in his absence a legally appointed successor (vice chairman/mayor pro tem), may declare that a state of emergency exists and thereafter the mayor, or in his absence, a legally appointed successor, shall have and may exercise for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
To appropriate and expend funds, execute contracts, and to obtain and distribute equipment, materials, and supplies for emergency management purposes.
(2)
To provide for the health and safety of persons and property, including emergency assistance to the victims of any emergency or disaster resulting from manmade or natural causes or enemy attack, and to direct and coordinate the development of emergency management plans and programs in accordance with the policies and plans set by the federal and state emergency management agencies.
(3)
To appoint, employ, remove, or provide, with or without compensation, chiefs of services, warning personnel, rescue teams, auxiliary fire and police personnel, and other emergency management workers.
(4)
To establish a primary and one (1) or more secondary control centers to serve as command posts during an emergency or disaster.
(5)
Subject to the order of the governor or the mayor or his legally appointed successor, to assign and make available for duty the employees, property, or equipment of the city relating to firefighting, engineering, rescue, health, medical and related services, and to police, transportation, construction, and similar items or services for emergency management purposes, within or outside of the physical limits of the city.
(6)
In addition to the heretofore stated powers and authorities, to acquire, temporarily or permanently, by purchase, lease, or otherwise, sites required for installation of temporary housing units for disaster victims; and to enter into whatever arrangements, including purchase, of temporary housing units and payment of transportation charges, which are necessary to prepare or equip such sites to utilize the housing units.
(Code 1958, § 8-4; Ord. No. 90-40, § 1, 9-4-90; Ord. No. 91-49, § 1, 12-3-91)
State Law reference— Emergency interim successors to officials, OCGA § 38-3-50 et seq.
Sec. 3-1-51. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as municipal and county officers and employees.
(Code 1958, § 8-5; Ord. No. 90-40, § 1, 9-4-90)
State Law reference— Immunity under emergency management law, OCGA §§ 38-3-32, 38-3-33, 38-3-35; emergency management personnel, OCGA § 38-3-34.
Sec. 3-1-52. - Liberality of construction.
This chapter shall be construed liberally in order to effectuate its purpose.
(Code 1958, § 8-7; Ord. No. 90-40, § 1, 9-4-90)
