ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS
A. - ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS

Section 3.10. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the city manager shall prescribe the functions or duties and establish, abolish, alter, consolidate or leave vacant all nonelective offices, departments, and agencies of the city as necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of this city subject to consent by the governing body.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(c)
There shall be a director of each department or agency who shall be its principal officer. Each director shall, subject to the direction and supervision of the city manager, be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of that director's department or agency.
(d)
All appointive officers and directors under the supervision of the city manager shall be employees at will and subject to removal or suspension at any time by the city manager unless otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
Section 3.11. - Boards, commissions, and authorities.
(a)
The governing body shall create by ordinance or resolution such boards, commissions, and authorities to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial, or quasi-legislative function the governing body deems necessary and shall by ordinance or resolution establish the composition, period of existence, duties, and powers thereof.
(b)
All members of boards, commissions, and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the mayor subject to approval by the council for such terms of office and in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance or resolution, except where other appointing authority, terms of office, or manner of appointment is prescribed by this charter or by law. The mayor shall make reasonable efforts to distribute appointments among all wards, provided there are eligible and qualified candidates.
(c)
The governing body, by ordinance, may provide for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses of the members of any board, commission, or authority.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided by charter or by law, no member of any board, commission, or authority shall hold any elective office in the city.
(e)
Any vacancy on a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed herein for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law.
(f)
No member of a board, commission, or authority shall assume office until that person has executed and filed with the city clerk an oath obligating himself or herself to faithfully and impartially perform the duties of that member's office.
(g)
All board members serve at will and may be removed at any time by majority vote of the governing body unless otherwise provided by law.
(h)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, ordinance, or law, each board, commission, or authority of the city shall elect one of its members as chair and one member as vice chair and may elect as its secretary one of its own members or may appoint as secretary an employee of the city. Each board, commission, or authority of the city government may establish such bylaws, rules, and regulations, not inconsistent with this charter, ordinances of the city, or law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs. Copies of such bylaws, rules, and regulations shall be filed with the clerk of the city.
(i)
If it becomes necessary for a board, commission, or authority to dissolve, the official minute book for said board, commission, or authority shall be transferred to the city clerk for permanent retention.
Section 3.12. - City attorney.
(a)
The governing body shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized, and shall provide for the payment of such attorney or attorneys for services rendered to the city. The city attorney shall be responsible for providing for the representation and defense of the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; may draw proposed ordinances when requested to do so; shall attend the meetings of the council as directed; shall advise the governing body and city manager concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required by virtue of the person's position as city attorney.
(b)
The city attorney is not a public official of the city and does not take an oath of office. The city attorney shall at all times be an independent contractor. A law firm, rather than an individual, may be designated as the city attorney.
(c)
The city attorney shall be removed at any time upon majority vote of the governing body.
Section 3.13. - City clerk.
The city manager shall appoint a city clerk who shall not be a councilmember. The city clerk shall serve as secretary to the governing body; attend all meetings of the governing body and prepare and maintain accurate minutes of all its proceedings; be a custodian of the official city seal and city records; maintain governing body records required by this charter; administer oaths; and perform such other duties as may be required by the governing body. The city clerk shall supervise and keep a record of all municipal elections.
Section 3.14. - City auditor.
(a)
The governing body shall appoint a city auditor who shall be a certified public accountant. The city auditor shall be responsible for providing an annual independent audit of all city accounts, funds, and financial transactions in accordance with generally accepted auditing principles. The city auditor shall attend the meetings of the council as directed; shall advise the governing body and city manager concerning financial aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required by virtue of the person's position as city auditor.
(b)
The city auditor is not a public official of the city and does not take an oath of office. The city auditor shall at all times be an independent contractor. An accounting firm, rather than an individual, may be designated as the city auditor.
(c)
The city auditor shall be removed at any time upon majority vote of the governing body.
B. - PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION

Section 3.15. - Position classification and pay plans.
The city manager shall be responsible for the preparation of a position classification and pay plan which shall be submitted to the governing body for approval. Such plan may apply to all employees of the city and any of its agencies, departments, boards, commissions, or authorities. When a pay plan has been adopted, the governing body shall not increase or decrease the salary range applicable to any position except by amendment of such pay plan. For purposes of this section, all elected and appointed city officials are not city employees.
Section 3.16. - Employee classifications established.
The general employee classifications in the City of Gainesville shall be as follows:
(1)
Council appointments: The appointed service which shall include the city manager, the city attorney, the municipal court judge, the solicitor, the city auditor, and all personnel appointed by the governing body pursuant to this charter except employees in the classified service appointed as provided in this charter;
(2)
Appointed officials: Appointments by the city manager. These employees serve at will and may be removed at any time;
(3)
Classified appointment: Regular full-time employees covered by the provisions of the merit system; and
(4)
Nonclassified service: Includes all part-time or temporary employees as designated by the city manager.
Section 3.17. - Employees status on effective date of charter.
The rights, status, salaries, wages, rank, and conditions of employment of all employees of the City of Gainesville defined in Section 3.16 of this charter subject to this charter shall be and remain as they existed at the time this charter becomes effective and shall so remain until and unless changed or terminated under some provision of this charter.
