Chapter 74 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; businesses, ch. 22; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 50.
State Law reference— Taxation power of municipal governments, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 4, par. 1; limitation on taxing power of municipalities, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 8; ad valorem taxation of property, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-2; municipal taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-350 et seq.; specific business and occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 74-1—74-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - INSURANCE BUSINESS FEES AND TAXES

Sec. 74-26. - Insurers license fees—Generally.
There is levied for the year 2022 and for each year thereafter an annual license fee upon each insurer doing business within the city in the amount of $75.00. For each separate business location in excess of one which is operating on behalf of such insurers within the city, there is levied a license fee in the amount of $75.00. For the purposes of this Section, the term "insurer" means a company which is authorized to transact business in any of the classes of insurance designated by O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5.
(Ord. No. 2011-19, § 1, 10-17-11; Ord. No. 2021-13, § 1, 11-15-21)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2011-19, § 1, adopted Oct. 17-2011, repealed former § 74-26, and enacted a new § 74-26 as set out herein. Former § 74-26 pertained to the same subject matter and derived from Ord. of 8-1-83(3); Ord. of 10-3-83; Ord. of 2-16-87(2), § 1; Ord. of 11-1-93, § 1; Ord. of 11-21-94(2), § 1 and Ord. No. 2001-13, § 1, adopted Dec. 3, 2001.
Sec. 74-27. - License fee for life insurers insuring certain risks at additional business locations.
For each separate business location, not otherwise subject to a license fee under this article, operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and in connection with such loans or sales offers, solicits or takes application for insurance through a licensed agent of a life insurer for life insurance, such insurer shall pay an additional license fee of $26.25 per location for the year 2022 and for each year thereafter.
(Ord. No. 2011-19, § 2, 10-17-11; Ord. No. 2021-13, § 2, 11-15-21)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2011-19, § 2, adopted Oct. 17, 2011, repealed former § 74-27, and enacted a new § 74-27 as set out herein. Former § 74-27 pertained to the same subject matter and derived from Ord. of 8-1-83(3); Ord. of 10-3-83; Ord. of 11-21-94(2), § 2 and Ord. No. 2001-13, § 2, adopted Dec. 3, 2001.
Sec. 74-28. - License fee for independent insurance agencies and brokers not otherwise licensed.
There is levied an annual license fee upon independent agencies and brokers for each separate business location from which an insurance business is conducted and which is not subject to the company license imposed by section 74-26, in the amount of $400.00 for each such location within the city.
(Ord. of 8-1-83(3); Ord. of 10-3-83; Ord. of 2-16-87(2); Ord. of 11-21-94(2), § 3)
Sec. 74-29. - Due date for payment of license fees.
The license fees imposed in sections 74-26 and 74-27 shall be due and payable on the first day of each year.
(Ord. of 8-1-83(3); Ord. of 10-3-83; Ord. of 11-21-94(2), § 6)
Sec. 74-30. - Gross premiums tax on life, accident and health insurers.
There is levied an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer writing life, accident and sickness insurance within the state [city], in an amount equal to one percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1. The term "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by section 74-26.
(Ord. of 8-1-83(3); Ord. of 10-3-83; Ord. of 11-21-94(2), § 4)
Sec. 74-31. - Gross premiums tax on all other insurers.
There is levied an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer, other than an insurer transacting business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-33-5(1), doing business within the state [city], in an amount equal to 2.5 percent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2. The term "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by section 74-26.
(Ord. of 8-1-83(3); Ord. of 10-3-83; Ord. of 11-21-94(2), § 5)
Secs. 74-32—74-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS BUSINESS LICENSE TAX[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authorization to levy and collect a business license tax from depository financial institutions, O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.

Sec. 74-51. - Levy.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, there is levied an annual business license tax upon state and national banking associations, federal savings and loan associations and state building and loan associations at the rate of 0.25 percent of the gross receipts of such institutions as defined. Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, the minimum amount of business license tax due from any depository financial institutions pursuant to this article shall be $1,000.00 per year.
(Ord. of 8-1-83(2))
Sec. 74-52. - Items included in gross receipts.
For the purposes of this article, the term "gross receipts" shall mean the total amount of revenue generated from the sources itemized in this section during the calendar year immediately preceding the date on which the tax imposed by this article is due:
(1)
Banks. Items to be included in the calculation of gross receipts with respect to banks are as follows:
a.
Interest and fees on loans, less any interest collected on those portions of loans sold and serviced for others;
b.
Interest on balances with other depository financial institutions;
c.
Interest on federal or correspondent funds sold and securities purchased under agreements of resale;
d.
Interest on other bonds, notes and debentures, excluding interest on obligations of the state or its political subdivisions and obligations of the United States;
e.
Dividends on stocks;
f.
Income from direct lease financing;
g.
Income from fiduciary activities;
h.
Service charges on deposit accounts;
i.
Other service charges, commissions and fees; and
j.
Other income.
(2)
Savings and loan associations. Items to be included in the calculation of gross receipts with respect to savings and loan associations are as follows:
a.
Interest on mortgage loans, less any interest collected on those portions of loans sold in service for others;
b.
Interest on mortgages, participations or mortgage-backed securities;
c.
Interest on real estate sold on contract;
d.
Discounts on mortgage loans purchased;
e.
Interest on other loans, excluding interest on obligations of the state or its political subdivisions and obligations of the United States;
f.
Interest and dividends on investments and deposits;
g.
Loan fees;
h.
Loan servicing fees;
i.
Other fees and charges;
j.
Gross income from real estate owned operations;
k.
Net income from office building operations;
l.
Gross income from real estate held for investment;
m.
Net income from service corporations and subsidiaries;
n.
Miscellaneous operating income;
o.
Profit on sale of real estate owned, investment securities, loans and other assets; and
p.
Miscellaneous nonoperating income.
(3)
Deductions. The following items shall be deducted from gross receipts calculated pursuant to subsection (1) or (2) of this section:
a.
An amount equal to the amount of interest paid on all liabilities for the period;
b.
An amount equal to income derived from the authorized activities of any domestic international banking facility operating pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 7, ch. 1, art. 5(a);
c.
An amount equal to any income arising from the conduct of a banking business with persons located outside of the United States and its territories or possessions; and
d.
An amount equal to a depository financial institution's gross income which is taxed under the tax laws of a state other than Georgia.
To the extent that any deductions are made pursuant to subsections b., c. and d. of this subsection, the deduction specified in subsection a. of this subsection shall be reduced by the same proportion that the deductions in subsections b. through d. of this subsection bear to the gross receipts of the depository financial institution as calculated before making any deductions pursuant to subsections a. through d. of this subsection.
(Ord. of 8-1-83(2))
Sec. 74-53. - Due date; filing of return.
(a)
Each depository financial institution within the city shall file a return of its gross receipts with the city on March 1 of the year following the year in which such gross receipts were measured. The returns shall be made in the manner and in the form prescribed by the commissioner of the state department of revenue and shall be based upon the allocation method set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(d). The tax levied pursuant to this article shall be assessed and collected based upon the information provided in the return.
(b)
The due date of taxes levied by this article shall be April 1, 1984, and April 1 of each subsequent year.
(Ord. of 8-1-83(2))
Secs. 74-54—74-75. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - HOTEL-MOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— County and municipal excise taxes on rooms, lodgings and accommodations, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.; operators of hotels, inns and roadhouses, O.C.G.A. § 43-21-1 et seq.

Sec. 74-76. - Statutory authority.
Pursuant to the provisions of an act of the General Assembly authorizing municipalities in counties in the state to impose, levy, and collect an excise tax upon the furnishing for value to the public of any room, lodgings, or accommodations furnished by any person licensed by or required to pay business or occupation taxes to the municipality for operating a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist cabin, or any other place in which rooms, lodgings, or accommodations are regularly furnished for value, provided no such tax shall be levied upon:
(1)
Charges made for continuous use of any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations after the first 30 days of continuous occupancy;
(2)
The use of meeting rooms and other facilities or any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided without charge;
(3)
Charges made for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided to any persons who certify that they are staying in such room, lodging, or accommodation as a result of the destruction of their home or residence by fire or other casualty; and
(4)
Any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations furnished for period of one or more days for use by Georgia state or local governmental officials or employees when traveling on official business, there is hereby levied an excise tax in the amount of six percent of the charges to the public for furnishing of any room, lodgings, or accommodations within the city.
(Ord. No. 2010-3, § 1, 3-1-10)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2010-3, § 1, adopted March 1, 2010, repealed former § 74-76, and enacted a new § 74-76 as set out herein. Former § 74-76 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Code 1976, § 2-5051.
Sec. 74-77. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Due date means the 20th day after the close of the monthly period for which tax is to be computed.
Guestroom means a room occupied or intended, arranged or designed for occupancy by one or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use.
Hotel means any structure or any portion of a structure, including any lodginghouse, roominghouse, dormitory, Turkish bath, bachelor hotel, studio hotel, motel, motor hotel, auto court, inn, public club or private club, containing guestrooms and which is occupied or is intended or designed for occupancy by guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor or otherwise. It does not include any jail, hospital, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, prison, detention or other buildings in which human beings are housed and detained under legal restraint.
Monthly period means the calendar months of any year.
Occupancy means the use or possession or the right to the use or possession of any room or apartment in a hotel, or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Occupant means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses or has the right to use or possess any room in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use or other agreement, or otherwise.
Operator means any person operating a hotel in the city, including but not limited to the owner or proprietor of such premises or the lessee, sublessee, lender in possession, licensee or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
Permanent resident means any occupant as of a given date who has or shall have occupied or has or shall have the right of occupancy of any guestroom in a hotel for at least ten consecutive days next preceding such date.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint adventure, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, nonprofit corporation or syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, and includes the plural as well as the singular number, excepting the United States of America and the state and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the city is without power to impose the tax provided for in this article.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Return means any return filed or required to be filed as provided in this article.
Tax means the tax imposed by this article.
(Code 1976, § 2-5052)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 74-78. - Violations of article; penalty.
(a)
Failure to collect taxes; punishment. It shall be unlawful for any innkeeper to fail, neglect, or refuse to collect the tax provided in this article, either by himself or herself, or through his or her agents or employees. In addition to the penalty of being liable for and paying the tax himself or herself, any person who violates subsection (a) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100.00 or imprisonment in the county jail for not more than three months, or both.
(b)
Unlawful returns; punishment. It shall be unlawful for any innkeeper required by this article to make, render, sign, or verify any return to make a false or fraudulent return with intent to evade the tax levied by this article. Any person who violates subsection (b) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100.00 nor more than $300.00 or confinement in the county jail for not less than 30 days nor more than three months, or both fine and confinement.
(c)
Failure to furnish return; punishment. It shall be unlawful for any innkeeper subject to this article to fail or refuse to furnish any return required to be made by this article or to fail or refuse to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the city. Any person who violates subsection (c) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(d)
Failure to keep and open records; punishment. It shall be unlawful for any innkeeper subject to this article to fail to keep records or to fail to open the records to inspection as required by law. Any person who violates subsection (d) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(e)
Other violations; punishment. It shall be unlawful for any innkeeper to violate any other provision of this article for which punishment is not otherwise provided. Any person who violates subsection (e) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Code 1976, § 2-5062; Ord. of 11-6-00, § 1)
Sec. 74-79. - Administration of article.
(a)
Authority of clerk. The clerk shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the collection of the tax imposed by this article.
(b)
Records of operators. Each innkeeper required to make a return and pay any tax under this article shall keep and preserve (1) suitable records of the charges taxable under this article, and (2) other books of account which are necessary to determine the amount of tax due.
(c)
Examination of records; audits. All books, invoices, and other records required by this section to be kept shall be open to examination at all reasonable hours by the city. Any examination of the records of an innkeeper for purposes of this section shall be based primarily upon the most recent sales tax audit report on the innkeeper as may be furnished by the state tax commissioner pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-2-16. Information secured by the city incident to any such examination shall be confidential and privileged to the same extent as provided by O.C.G.A. § 48-2-15 for tax information secured by the state tax commissioner.
(d)
Authority to require reports. In the administration of the provisions of this article, the clerk may require the filing of reports by any person or class of persons having in his or their possession or custody information relating to rentals of guestrooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the clerk when required by the clerk and shall set forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the dates of occupancy and such other information as the clerk may require.
(Code 1976, § 2-5060; Ord. of 11-6-00, § 2)
Sec. 74-80. - Levy.
The hotel-motel occupancy tax rate shall be six percent of taxable charges to the public for lodging accommodations within the city. The hotel-motel occupancy tax shall be levied at this rate and the resulting revenues shall be used pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(3.2).
(Code 1976, § 2-5053; Ord. of 11-15-99, § 1)
Sec. 74-81. - Collection by operator.
Every operator maintaining a place of business in the city as provided in section 74-80, and renting guestrooms in the city not exempted under section 74-82, shall collect a tax of three percent on the amount of rent from the occupant.
(Code 1976, § 2-5054)
Sec. 74-82. - Exemption.
No tax shall be imposed under this article upon a permanent resident.
(Code 1976, § 2-5055)
Sec. 74-83. - Registration of operators.
Every person engaging or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel in the city shall immediately register with the clerk of the city on a form provided by the clerk. Persons engaged in such business must so register not later than 30 days after the date this article becomes effective and the tax is imposed as set forth in section 74-80, but such privilege of registration after the imposition of such tax shall not relieve any person from the obligation of payment or collection of tax on and after the date of imposition thereof, regardless of registration. Such registration shall set forth the name under which such person transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of his place of business and such other information which would facilitate the collection of the tax as the clerk may require. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; in the case of ownership by an association or partnership, by a member or partner; and in the case of ownership by a corporation, by an officer. The clerk shall, after such registration, issue without charge a certificate of authority to each operator to collect the tax from the occupant. A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of an operator. Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business to which it is applicable.
(Code 1976, § 2-5056)
Sec. 74-84. - Due date; filing of return; collection fee; estimated tax payments; extensions.
(a)
All amounts of taxes shall be due and payable to the clerk monthly, on or before the 20th day of every month next succeeding each respective monthly period.
(b)
On or before the 20th day of the month following each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period shall be filed with the clerk showing the gross rent, rent from permanent residents, taxable rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the related period, and such other information as may be required by the clerk.
(c)
Operators collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and payment of the amount due, if the amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be the same rate authorized for deductions from state tax under the Georgia Retailers' and Consumers' Sales and Use Tax Act, approved February 20, 1951, (1951 Ga. Laws, page 360), as amended [O.C.G.A. § 48-8-1 et seq.].
(d)
Estimated tax payments. If the estimated tax liability of any innkeeper for any taxable period exceeds $2,500.00, the innkeeper shall file a return and remit to the city not less than 50 percent of the estimated tax liability for the taxable period on or before the 20th day of the period. The amount of the payment of the estimated tax liability shall be credited against the amount to be due on the return required under subsection (a) of this section. This subsection shall not apply to any innkeeper unless during the previous fiscal year, the innkeeper's monthly payments exceeded $2,500.00 per month for three consecutive months or more. As used in this subsection, the term "estimated tax liability" means an innkeeper's tax liability under this article, adjusted to account for any subsequent change in the rate of tax imposed under this article or any substantial change in circumstances due to damage to the premises, based on his or her average monthly payments for the last fiscal year.
(e)
Extensions. The city administrator may, for good cause, extend the time for making any returns required under this article for not more than 30 days. No extension granted pursuant to this subsection shall be valid unless granted in writing upon written application, and then the extension shall only be valid for a period, as appropriate, of not more than 12 consecutive months or four consecutive calendar quarters. Upon the grant of any extension authorized by this subsection, the innkeeper shall remit to the city on or before the date the tax would otherwise become due without the grant of the extension an amount which equals not less than 100 percent of the innkeeper's payment for the corresponding period of the preceding tax year. No interest or penalty shall be charged by reason of the granting of an extension pursuant to this subsection during the first ten days of each extension period. Thereafter, interest shall be collected upon the unpaid balance of the innkeeper's liability at the rate of one percent per month.
(Code 1976, § 2-5057; Ord. of 11-6-00, §§ 3, 4)
Sec. 74-85. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Recomputation of tax. If the clerk is not satisfied with the return of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the city by any person, he may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within his possession or that may come into his possession. One or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one or more monthly periods.
(b)
Interest on deficiency. The amount of the determination shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, from the due date of taxes.
(c)
Method of service of notice of determination. The clerk or his designated representative shall give to the operator written notice of his determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail. If served by mail, such service shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the clerk. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by the addressee.
(Code 1976, § 2-5058; Ord. of 11-6-00, §§ 5, 6)
Sec. 74-86. - Determination if no return made.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts. If any person fails to make a return, the clerk shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the person, or, as the case may be, of the amount of the total rentals in the city which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period in respect to which the person failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is in or may come into the possession of the clerk. Written notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in section 74-85(c).
(b)
Interest on amount found due. The amount of the determination shall bear interest at the rate of three-fourths of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, from the 20th day of the month following the monthly period for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned, until the date of payment.
(Code 1976, § 2-5059)
Sec. 74-87. - Action for collection of tax.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this section, the amount of any tax imposed by this article may be assessed at any time.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided by subsection (c) of this section, in the case where a return or report is filed, the amount of any tax imposed by this article shall be assessed within three years after the return or report was filed. For purposes of this subsection, a return or report filed before the last day prescribed by law for the filing thereof shall be considered as filed on such last day. If an extension of time for filing a return or report is granted and the return or report is filed on or before the extended date, the return or report shall be considered as filed on the extended due date.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided by this article, in the case of a false or fraudulent return or report filed with the intent to evade tax or a failure to file a return or report, the amount of any tax imposed by this article shall be assessed at any time.
(d)
Where, before the expiration of the time described in this section for the assessment of any tax imposed by this article, both the city administrator and the person subject to assessment have consented in writing to its assessment after such time, the tax may be assessed at any time prior to the expiration of the agreed upon period. The period so agreed upon may be extended by subsequent agreements in writing made before the expiration of the previously agreed upon period.
(e)
No action without assessment shall be brought for the collection of any tax after the expiration of the period for assessment.
(Code 1976, § 2-5063(a); Ord. of 11-6-00, § 7)
Sec. 74-88. - Duty of successors or assignees of operator to withhold tax from purchase price.
If any innkeeper liable for any tax, interest or penalty imposed by this article sells his or her business or quits the business, he or she shall make a final return and payment within fifteen days after the date of selling or quitting the business. The innkeeper's successor or assigns, if any, shall withhold a sufficient amount of the purchase money to cover the amount of the taxes, interest, and penalties due under this article and unpaid until the former owner produces either a receipt from the city showing that the taxes, interest, and penalties due under this article have been paid or a certificate from the city stating that no tax, interest, or penalty is due under this article. If the purchaser of the business fails to withhold the purchase money as required by this section, he or she shall be personally liable for the payment of any taxes, interest, and penalties accruing under this article and unpaid by any former owner or assignor. The personal liability of the purchaser in such a case shall not exceed the amount of the total purchase money, but the property being transferred shall in all cases be subject to the full amount of the tax lien arising from the delinquencies of the former owner. Paid executions may be transferred and enforced as otherwise provided by law.
(Code 1976, § 2-5063(b), (c); Ord. of 11-6-00, § 8)
Sec. 74-89. - Credit for tax erroneously collected.
Whenever the amount of any tax or interest has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city under this article, it may be offset by the clerk. If the operator or other person determines that he has overpaid or paid more than once, which fact has not been determined by the clerk, he will have three years from the date of payment to file a claim in writing stating the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded. The claim shall be audited. If the claim is approved by the clerk, the excess amount paid the clerk may be credited on any amounts then due and payable from the person by whom it was paid, or his administrators or executors.
(Code 1976, § 2-5063(d))
Sec. 74-90. - Prima facie correct assessments.
Any assessment of an innkeeper pursuant to this article by the city shall be deemed prima facie correct.
(Ord. of 11-6-00, § 9)
Sec. 74-91. - Authority to waive interest and penalties on unpaid taxes.
(a)
The mayor and council may waive the collection of any interest, in whole or in part, due the city on any unpaid taxes whenever or to the extent that they reasonable determine that the delay in payment of the taxes was attributable to the action or inaction of the city.
(b)
The mayor and council may waive, in whole or in part, the collection of any amount due the city as a penalty under this article whenever or to the extent that they reasonably determine that the default giving rise to the penalty was due to reasonable cause and not due to gross or willful neglect or disregard of the law or of regulations or instructions issued pursuant to the law.
(Ord. of 11-6-00, § 10)
Sec 74-92. - Penalties added to tax for failure to pay.
(a)
When any innkeeper fails to make any return or to pay the full amount of the tax required by this article, there shall be imposed, in addition to other penalties provided by law, a penalty to be added to the tax in the amount of five percent or five dollars, whichever is greater, if the failure is for not more than 30 days and an additional five percent or $5.00, whichever is greater, for each additional 30 days or fraction of 30 days during which the failure continues. The penalty for any single violation shall not exceed 25 percent or $25.00 in the aggregate, whichever is greater. If the failure is due to providential cause shown to the satisfaction of mayor and council in affidavit form attached to the return and remittance is made within ten days of the due date, the return may be accepted exclusive of penalties and interest. In the case of a false or fraudulent return or a failure to file a return where willful intent exists to defraud the city of any tax due under this article, a penalty of 50 percent of the tax due shall be assessed.
(b)
All civil penalties and interest added to any tax imposed under this article and collected by the city shall be included as revenue derived from such tax for purposes of the expenditure requirements imposed on the city as provided by state law.
(Ord. of 11-6-00, § 11)
