ARTICLE IV. - SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 82-81. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
BOD, denoting biochemical oxygen demand, means the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at 20 degrees Celsius expressed in milligrams per liter.
Building drain means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
Building sewer means the extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
Combined sewer means a sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
Garbage means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
Industrial wastes means the liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes, trade or business, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
Natural outlet means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface water or groundwater.
pH means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
Properly shredded garbage means the wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
Public sewer means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal rights, and which is controlled by public authority.
Sanitary sewer means a sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwater, surface water and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
Sewage means a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such groundwater, surface water and stormwater as may be present.
Sewage treatment plant means any arrangement of devices and structures used for treating sewage.
Sewage works means all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of sewage.
Sewer means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
Slug means any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
Storm drain and storm sewer mean a sewer which carries stormwater and surface water and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
Superintendent means the superintendent of waterworks of the city, or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
Suspended solids means solids that either float on the surface of or are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by laboratory filtering.
Watercourse means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Code 1976, § 5-2001)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 82-82. - Penalty for violation of article; liability for damage.
(a)
Any person who shall be found guilty of violating any provision of this article, on conviction thereof in the municipal court, shall be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(b)
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city by reason of such violation.
(Code 1976, § 5-2017)
Sec. 82-83. - Right of entry.
(a)
The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(b)
While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in subsection (a) of this section, the superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company.
(Code 1976, § 5-2016)
Sec. 82-84. - Damaging or tampering with sewage works.
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this section shall be subject to immediate arrest under a charge of disorderly conduct.
(Code 1976, § 5-2015)
Sec. 82-85. - Deposit of objectionable waste.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Code 1976, § 5-2002(a))
Sec. 82-86. - Discharge of polluted water to natural outlet.
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1976, § 5-2002(b))
Sec. 82-87. - Privies, septic tanks, cesspools, etc.
Except as provided in this article, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code 1976, § 5-2002(c))
Sec. 82-88. - Connection with public sewer required for certain premises.
The owner of any house, building or property used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is hereby required, at his expense, to install a direct connection with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this article within 90 days after date of official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
(Code 1976, § 5-2002(d))
Secs. 82-89—82-100. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS

Sec. 82-101. - Use required when public sewer not available.
Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the provisions of section 82-88, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this division.
(Code 1976, § 5-2003(a))
Sec. 82-102. - Permit.
Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $10.00 shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
(Code 1976, § 5-2003(b))
Sec. 82-103. - Inspection.
A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 72 hours of the receipt of notice by the superintendent.
(Code 1976, § 5-2003(c))
Sec. 82-104. - Specifications; minimum lot area.
The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the division of physical health of the state. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than 20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(Code 1976, § 5-2003(d))
Sec. 82-105. - Operation and maintenance.
The owner of private sewage disposal facilities shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(Code 1976, § 5-2003(f))
Sec. 82-106. - Additional requirements.
No statement contained in this division shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the state and county health officers.
(Code 1976, § 5-2003(g))
Sec. 82-107. - Abandonment on connection with public sewer.
(a)
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in section 82-88, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this article, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(b)
When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected to such sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank run gravel or dirt.
(Code 1976, § 5-2003(e), (h))
Secs. 82-108—82-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS

Sec. 82-121. - Permit required.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the superintendent.
(Code 1976, § 5-2004(a))
Sec. 82-122. - Application for permit; permit fee.
There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: one for residential and commercial service, and one for service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $100.00 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit, and a negotiated fee based upon use for a permit for an industrial user producing industrial wastes, shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
(Code 1976, § 5-2004(b))
Sec. 82-123. - Payment of costs; indemnification of city.
All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Code 1976, § 5-2004(c))
Sec. 82-124. - Separate building sewer required for every building; exception.
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building; except that, where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
(Code 1976, § 5-2004(d))
Sec. 82-125. - Use of old building sewers.
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they are found on examination and test by the superintendent to meet all requirements of this article.
(Code 1976, § 5-2004(e))
Sec. 82-126. - Specifications for building sewer.
The size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WEF Manual of Practice no. 9 shall apply.
(Code 1976, § 5-2004(f))
Sec. 82-127. - Elevation of building sewer.
Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
(Code 1976, § 5-2004(g))
Sec. 82-128. - Connection of sources of surface runoff or groundwater to sanitary sewer prohibited.
No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Code 1976, § 5-2004(h))
Sec. 82-129. - Specifications for connection.
The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city, or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in the ASTM and WEF Manual of Practice no. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the superintendent before installation.
(Code 1976, § 5-2004(i))
Sec. 82-130. - Inspection; supervision of connection.
The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the superintendent or his representative.
(Code 1976, § 5-2004(j))
Sec. 82-131. - Excavations.
All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Code 1976, § 5-2004(k))
Secs. 82-132—82-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS

Sec. 82-141. - Discharge of unpolluted water.
(a)
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(b)
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
(Code 1976, §§ 5-2005, 5-2006)
Sec. 82-142. - Prohibited discharges.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
(1)
Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas;
(2)
Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
(3)
Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works; or
(4)
Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the sewage works, such as but not limited to ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Code 1976, § 5-2007; Ord. of 9-20-93(2), §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 82-143. - Restricted discharges.
(a)
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described substances, materials, waters or wastes to any public sewer if it appears likely in the opinion of the superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, can have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb or public property or constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
(1)
Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150 degrees Fahrenheit (65 degrees Celsius);
(2)
Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter, or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150 degrees Fahrenheit (0 and 65 degrees Celsius);
(3)
Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the superintendent;
(4)
Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
(5)
Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the superintendent for such materials;
(6)
Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be established by the superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies having jurisdiction over such discharge to the receiving waters;
(7)
Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such halflife or concentration as may exceed limits established by the superintendent in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
(8)
Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
(9)
Materials which exert or cause:
a.
Unusual concentration of inert suspended solids, such as but not limited to fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues, or of dissolved solids, such as but not limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate;
b.
Excessive discoloration, such as but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions;
c.
Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works; or
d.
Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting slugs; and
(10)
Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
(b)
Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, no person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described substances, materials, waters or waste in excess of the specific limitations set forth in this subsection:
EXPAND
Substance Limitation
(mg/l)
Cadmium 0.9
Chromium 0.9
Copper 0.9
Lead 0.09
Nickel 0.9
Zinc 0.07
Arsenic 0.09
Mercury 0.09
Silver 0.23
Cyanide 0.09
  (Code 1976, § 5-2008; Ord. of 9-20-93(2), § 3)
Sec. 82-144. - Authority of superintendent in accepting wastes; compliance with federal pretreatment standards.
(a)
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in sections 82-142 and 82-143, and which in the judgment of the superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewerage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the superintendent may:
(1)
Reject the wastes;
(2)
Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the public sewers;
(3)
Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
(4)
Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions of section 82-149;
(5)
Require any sewer user to pay all costs associated with testing of wastewater discharge by that user to the sewer system; and/or
(6)
Require sewer system users to sample and report results of tests on wastewater discharge to the sewer system.
If the superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the superintendent and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(b)
Any person producing industrial discharges shall comply with the federal pretreatment standards as prescribed by 40 CFR 128.
(Code 1976, § 5-2009; Ord. of 9-20-93(2), § 4)
Sec. 82-145. - Grease, oil and sand interceptors.
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the superintendent and shall be so located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Code 1976, § 5-2010)
Sec. 82-146. - Maintenance of pretreatment facilities.
Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
(Code 1976, § 5-2011)
Sec. 82-147. - Control manhole.
When required by the superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install in the building sewer a suitable control manhole together with such meters and other appurtenances necessary to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner, at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Code 1976, § 5-2012)
Sec. 82-148. - Measurements, tests and analyses.
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. If no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pH's are determined from periodic grab samples.
(Code 1976, § 5-2013)
Sec. 82-149. - Special agreements with industrial users.
No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern.
(Code 1976, § 5-2014)
Secs. 82-150—82-170. - Reserved.
