ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages, wine or fortified wine.
Distilled spirits means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, including but not limited to all fortified wines.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes but is not limited to brandy.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than six percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer and strong beer. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Manufacturer means any maker, producer or bottler of an alcoholic beverage. The term also means:
(1)
In the case of distilled spirits, any person engaged in distilling, rectifying or blending any distilled spirits;
(2)
In the case of malt beverages, any brewer; and
(3)
In the case of wine, any vintner.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel or other original consumer container.
Retail dealer means any person who sells alcoholic beverages at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
Wholesaler and wholesale dealer mean any person who sells alcoholic beverages to other wholesale dealers, to retail dealers or to retail consumption dealers.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes but is not limited to all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines and like products. The term does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
(Ord. of 6-4-84, § 1(6-1001))
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-2. - Possession or consumption by underage persons.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person less than 21 years of age to have in his possession or to possess any intoxicating, alcoholic or malt beverages or to consume or drink any intoxicating, alcoholic or malt beverages within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person less than 21 years of age to furnish or supply any other person with intoxicating, alcoholic or malt beverages within the corporate limits of the city.
(c)
A person violating any of the provisions of this section, upon conviction in the municipal court, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.00 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, either or both, in the discretion of the court.
(Code 1976, § 10-1003; Ord. of 3-24-86, § 2)
State Law reference— Furnishing to, purchase of, or possession by persons under 21 years of age of alcoholic beverages, use of false identification, proper identification for sale of alcoholic beverages, dispensing, serving, etc., of alcoholic beverages by persons under 21 years of age in the course of employment, seller's duty to request proper identification, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23.
Sec. 6-3. - Possession or consumption in public place.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or to attempt to drink any alcoholic, malt or vinous liquors or any intoxicant from a can, bottle or glass or any other container or to possess an opened can, bottle, glass or other container containing any alcoholic, malt or vinous liquor or any intoxicant on the streets, sidewalks, rights-of-way and designated public parking areas, whether public or private, within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1976, § 10-1006(a))
Sec. 6-4. - Possession on city property.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or otherwise have any intoxicating, alcoholic or malt beverages on any city property.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to bring any intoxicating alcoholic or malt beverages upon the premises of any city property.
(c)
Notwithstanding the prohibition of possessing alcoholic beverages on city property as provided by code subsections 6-4(a) and 6-4(b), alcoholic beverages may be served at large public and formal events held on city property where the city acts in symbolic ways to honor, celebrate, and reward achievements central to its mission (e.g., dedications, awards, ceremonies). These events convey important values about what is essential to the city. The city is concerned with the image conveyed when alcohol service is included as part of these events. Accordingly, the following restrictions shall apply:
(1)
Alcoholic must be served by a licensed and insured third party vendor. No individual may serve or otherwise provide alcohol to persons under the legal drinking age.
(2)
The furnishing of alcohol at large public and formal events on city property must be approved by the mayor and council whose approval shall be conditioned upon the event conveying important values about what is essential to the city.
(3)
The promotion of the activity or event shall not use alcohol as an inducement to attend the event.
(4)
The event must adhere to all applicable federal or state laws, and local ordinances, related to the sale and use of alcohol.
(5)
Attendance to the function must be controlled by means such as individual invitation, registration, reservation, and/or a fee payment process.
(6)
Any individual in danger of over consuming alcoholic beverages will not be furnished any such beverage.
(7)
An ample supply and variety of food and nonalcoholic beverages will be available at such events.
(Code 1976, § 10-1004; Ord. No. 2009-10, § 1, 9-21-09)
Sec. 6-5. - Possession of open container in motor vehicle.
(a)
"Open container" defined. As used in this section, the term "open container" means:
(1)
Any container from which its contents are immediately capable of being consumed; or
(2)
Any container the seal of which has been broken.
(b)
Possession prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess an open container of an alcoholic beverage in a motor vehicle or while a passenger in or on a vehicle within the corporate limits of the city.
(c)
Possession by operator. An open container shall be considered to be in possession of the operator of a vehicle if the container is not in the possession of a passenger or is not locked in a locked glove compartment, locked trunk or other locked nonpassenger area of the vehicle, or in a luggage storage area if the vehicle does not have a locked nonpassenger area.
(d)
Possession by passenger. An open container shall be considered to be in the possession of a passenger of a vehicle if the container is in the physical control of the passenger.
(e)
Exceptions. This section shall not apply to:
(1)
A passenger of a vehicle when the driver is operating the vehicle pursuant to a contract to provide transportation for passengers and such driver holds a valid chauffeur's license pursuant to Georgia law or the law of any other state;
(2)
A passenger of a bus when the driver holds a valid chauffeur's license pursuant to Georgia law or the law of any other state; or
(3)
A passenger of a self-contained motor home which is in excess of 21 feet in length.
(f)
Penalty. Any person, operator of a vehicle or passenger who violates this section shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50.00 and not more than $500.00, or 15 days in jail, or both.
(Ord. of 9-18-89, §§ 1—7)
State Law reference— Possession of open container of alcoholic beverage while operating vehicle, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-253.
Sec. 6-6. - Public drunkenness.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be drunk, intoxicated or under the influence of intoxicating liquors, or to be drinking alcoholic or intoxicating liquors to excess upon the streets, lanes, roads and alleys within the corporate or police jurisdictional limits of the city. It shall be further unlawful for any person to be drunk, intoxicated or under the influence of intoxicating liquors or to be drinking alcoholic or intoxicating liquors to excess in any motor vehicle upon the streets, lanes, roads and alleys within the corporate or police jurisdictional limits of the city, and such conduct is hereby defined and declared to be improper, indecent or disorderly conduct and injurious to the public morals and public safety of the citizens of the city.
(Code 1976, § 10-1005)
Sec. 6-7. - Sale outside of licensed premises.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell alcoholic, malt or vinous liquors or any intoxicant on the streets, sidewalks and designated public parking areas, whether public or private or elsewhere, outside of the building, premises or place of business licensed for such sale.
(Code 1976, § 10-1006(b))
Secs. 6-8—6-30. - Reserved.
