ARTICLE II. - AIR POLLUTION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— County's and municipality's power to control air quality, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3; The Georgia Air Quality Act of 1978, O.C.G.A. § 12-9-1 et seq.

Sec. 30-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Air pollution means the presence in the outdoor atmosphere and the exterior of any building of one or more air contaminants in such quantities and duration as are or tend to be injurious to human health or welfare, to animal or plant life, or to property, or as would unreasonably interfere with the enjoyment of life or property.
Economic poisons means those chemicals used as insecticides, rodenticides, fungicides, herbicides, nematocides or defoliants.
Fuel-burning equipment means any furnace, boiler, water heater, device, mechanism, stoker, burner, stack, oven, stove, kiln, still or other apparatus, or a group or collection of such units, used in the process of fuel burning for the generation of heat or power. Refuse-burning equipment shall be considered to be an incinerator and not fuel-burning equipment. Ovens, stoves, ranges or barbecues used exclusively for domestic cooking purposes, and indoor fireplaces, are not included in this definition.
Incinerator means any device, apparatus, equipment or structure used for destroying, reducing or salvaging by fire any material or substance, including but not limited to refuse, rubbish, garbage, debris or scrap, or facilities for cremating human or animal remains.
Odor means a property of a substance which affects the sense of smell.
Open burning means any fire wherein the products of combustion are emitted into the open air and are not directed thereto through a stack or chimney or an approved incinerator.
Operator means any person who has care, custody or control of a building or premises, or a portion thereof, whether with or without knowledge of the owner thereof.
Plant life means vegetation, including but not limited to trees, tree branches, leaves, yard trimmings, shrubbery, grass, weeds and crops.
Refuse means all putrescible and nonputrescible wastes, except body wastes, including but not limited to garbage, rubbish, yard trimmings, leaves, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles and solid market and individual waste.
Ringelmann smoke chart means Ringelmann's Scale for Grading the Density of Smoke, published by the United States Bureau of Mines.
Salvage operations means any business, trade or industry engaged in whole or in part in salvaging or reclaiming any product or material, including but not limited to metals, chemicals, shipping containers or drums.
Smoke means small gasborne and airborne particles arising from a process of combustion in sufficient number to be observable.
(Code 1976, § 10-4014)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 30-27. - Air pollution; open burning prohibition.
(a)
No person shall dispose of residential waste or refuse by open burning, or cause, allow or permit open burning of residential waste or refuse.
(b)
No person shall conduct or cause or permit the conduct of a salvage operation by open burning.
(c)
No person shall cause or permit the disposal of nonresidential waste or refuse by open burning.
(d)
No person shall otherwise cause, allow or permit open burning upon any property located within the city.
(e)
It shall be prima facie evidence that the person who owns or controls property on which open burning occurs has caused or permitted such open burning.
(f)
Exceptions to the open burning prohibition are as follows:
(1)
Fires used for the preparation of food such as barbecuing.
(2)
Fires set in connection with agricultural operations related to the growing or harvesting of crops, provided that prior approval is obtained from the state forestry commission.
(3)
The use of safety flares for disposal of flammable gases for which there is no other practical means of disposal.
(4)
Fires set for demonstration purposes related to the training of governmental or industrial personnel in firefighting procedures, provided prior written approval is obtained from the city administrator.
(5)
Fires set for the disposal of residential yard trimmings originating on the property where the burning is to occur (yard trimmings to be restricted to plant material, grass cuttings, tree trimmings, hedge clippings, bushes, flowers, roots, branches, and tree limbs not over four inches in diameter), provided that:
a.
The state forestry commission issues a permit therefor;
b.
The yard trimmings must be dry to minimize the amount of smoke generated by the burning;
c.
The burning occurs between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and sundown; and
d.
The burning shall not occur in any drainage ditches.
(6)
Fires set for the disposal of residential waste or refuse for which provision has not been made elsewhere herein, provided that the procedure outlined in subsection (7) below, as applicable, is complied with.
(7)
a.
Fires set for the disposal of nonresidential waste or refuse may be permitted when it can be shown by a person that such open burning is absolutely necessary and in the public interest. Any person intending to engage in open burning of nonresidential waste shall submit a request to do so with the city administrator, for approval by the city administrator. All applications for permits must be submitted to the city administrator's office, Monday through Friday, from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All applications submitted to the city before 5:00 p.m. will be reviewed by 5:00 p.m. the following business day. The application shall state the following:
1.
The name, address, and telephone number of the person submitting the application.
2.
The type of business or activity involved. A description of the proposed equipment and operating practices, the type, quantity, and the composition of nonresidential wastes to be burned and the expected composition and amount of air contaminants to be released to the atmosphere.
3.
The schedule of burning operations which shall be between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and sundown.
4.
The exact location where open burning will be used to dispose of such waste, said location to be the farthest equidistance from:
i.
Any building on the owner's property;
ii.
Any building on adjoining lands; and
iii.
Any existing right-of-way.
5.
Reasons why no method other than burning can be used for disposal of such waste.
6.
Evidence that the proposed open burning has been approved by an agency which may have jurisdiction such as the state forestry commission.
b.
Upon approval of the application by the city administrator, the person may proceed with the operation without being in violation of this subsection, provided that the person conducting the burning fully complies with all conditions and operation restrictions imposed by the city administrator as a part of such permit. The city administrator may revoke such permit at any time for cause.
c.
Permit applications for the burning of land clearing debris, including trees, brush and vegetation only, shall normally be considered as being necessary and in the public interest, provided that an approvable air curtain open pit destructor of suitable design and capacity is used to accomplish the burning, and further provided that such device is installed, maintained and operated at maximum efficiency. Each such application, however, shall be considered individually upon its merits and the city administrator may decide that other factors require that such permit application be denied.
d.
The city administrator may establish such conditions or burning or operational requirements in permitting the open burning authorized under this subsection (f) as are necessary, in the judgement of the city administrator, to minimize the air pollution emitted by such burning or to protect the health and safety of the public.
e.
Permits for open burning granted under the provisions of this subsection may be revoked by the city administrator, for cause, at any time.
(g)
No open burning shall occur on one's property without an individual of majority age being in attendance on the property with fire extinguishing equipment (e.g., a garden hose connected to the water supply) readily available for use.
(h)
It shall be the duty of the city police department to enforce the provisions of this section. Each day this section is violated shall be considered a separate offense.
(i)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this section, no person shall conduct any outdoor burning on private land unless:
(1)
The location is not less than 50 feet from any structure and adequate provision is made to prevent fire from spreading within 50 feet of any structure; or
(2)
The fire is contained in an approved waste burner located safely not less than 15 feet from any structure.
(Code 1976, § 10-4015; Ord. of 7-1-85(2), § 1; Ord. of 8-19-96(1))
Sec. 30-28. - Incinerators.
(a)
No person shall cause, suffer, allow or permit smoke from any incinerator, the shade or appearance of which is darker than no. 1 of the Ringelmann smoke chart, to be emitted into the open air; or emissions of such opacity within a stack or chimney, or, exclusive of water vapor, of such opacity leaving a stack or chimney to a degree greater than the emission designated as no. 1 of the Ringelmann smoke chart.
(b)
The provisions of subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to smoke emitted during the building of a new fire, the shade or appearance of which is not darker than no. 2 of the Ringelmann smoke chart, for a period of no longer than three consecutive minutes; or to emissions of such opacity within a stack or chimney, or exclusive of water vapor, of such opacity leaving a stack or chimney to a degree which is not greater than the emissions designated as no. 2 of the Ringelmann smoke chart for a period no longer than three consecutive minutes.
(c)
No person shall cause, suffer, allow or permit the emission of particles of unburned waste or ash from any incinerator which are individually large enough to be visible while suspended in the atmosphere.
(d)
No person shall construct, install, use or cause to be used any incinerator which will result in odors being detectable by sense of smell in any area of human use or occupancy.
(e)
No person shall operate and no owner or operator of any building shall permit the operation of an incinerator prior to 7:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. of any day, and all operations shall be completely terminated by 5:00 p.m., including complete extinction of the fire and removal of material in a safe manner from the firebox to a noncombustible container.
(Code 1976, § 10-4016)
Sec. 30-29. - Emission of pollutants generally.
No person or owner of property, and no person having possession or control of property, shall cause, suffer, allow or permit to be emitted into the open air substances in such quantities as shall result in air pollution. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the use of economic poisons.
(Code 1976, § 10-4017)
Secs. 30-30—30-50. - Reserved.
