Chapter 46 - LAW ENFORCEMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; animals, ch. 14; businesses, ch. 22; emergency services, ch. 26; environment, ch. 30; fire prevention and protection, ch. 34; municipal court, ch. 54; offenses, ch. 58; traffic and vehicles, ch. 78; vehicles for hire, ch. 86; weapons, ch. 88.
State Law reference— Authority to exercise police power, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(a)(1); law enforcement officer appreciation day, O.C.G.A. § 1-11-6; peace officer memorial day, police week, O.C.G.A. § 1-4-7; Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act, O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq.; training requirements for police chiefs, O.C.G.A. § 35-8-20; special policemen, O.C.G.A. § 35-9-1; torts of police or other officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-3; definition of police officer, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1; impersonating law enforcement officer, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-395.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 46-1—46-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - POLICE DEPARTMENT

Sec. 46-26. - Established; composition.
A police department is hereby established in and for the city. The police department shall be composed of a chief of police and such other officers of such ranks and as many patrolmen as the council may from time to time determine.
(Code 1976, § 3-1001)
Sec. 46-27. - Powers and duties of chief of police.
The chief of police shall:
(1)
Execute all orders and directions of the council;
(2)
Abate or remove any nuisance when so directed by the council;
(3)
Maintain the peace, good order and tranquility of the city by the enforcement of all municipal ordinances and state laws;
(4)
Place upon the docket the names of all persons violating any of the municipal ordinances or state laws and arrest and take into custody all persons who violate any of such ordinances or state laws;
(5)
When being advised of any disturbance of the peace or disorderly conduct occurring in any house or place in the city upon his own knowledge, or being advised by any person of such conduct, request admission into the premises for the arrest and removal of the offender, and if such a request is not granted by the person in control or management of the premises then such person having such control shall be deemed to be the offender and shall be subject to the penalty provided by law; and
(6)
Under the direction of the city administrator be in charge of the police department, and shall have supervision over the members thereof in the exercise of their powers, duties and authority.
(Code 1976, § 3-1002)
Sec. 46-28. - Sale of unclaimed property.
Whenever any personal property, except firearms and weapons, remains unclaimed in the possession of the police department for a period of six months, or at the discretion of the mayor and council, and after an effort has been made by the police department to ascertain the ownership of such property and to notify the owner, such property shall be turned over to the clerk for sale. The clerk shall sell such personal property at public auction to the highest bidder, after publishing notice of such sale as required by O.C.G.A. § 44-14-411. The proceeds of any sale made under this section shall be handled as set out in O.C.G.A. § 44-14-412.
(Code 1976, § 3-1003)
Sec. 46-29. - False alarm service fee.
(a)
Established. To discourage excessive false alarms at any single residential or commercial location, enhance the safety of officers of the city police and fire departments, protect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, reduce unnecessary use of police and fire department resources, and produce revenues to defray the costs of police and fire department responses to false alarms, a false alarm service fee is hereby established.
(b)
Definitions. [The following terms, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed below:]
(1)
Alarm system means an assembly of equipment and devices arranged to signal the presence of a hazard requiring urgent attention by the city police and/or fire department.
(2)
False alarm means an alarm and alarm signal eliciting notification to and response by the police or fire department when there is no evidence of a crime, fire, or other activity that warrants a call for immediate police or fire department assistance and no person who was on or near the property or has viewed a video communication from the property called for the police or fire dispatch or confirmed the need for police or fire department assistance. "False alarm" does not include an alarm signal caused by violent conditions of nature or other extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the alarm user (i.e., acts of God).
(c)
Rates. The owner or lessee of any residential or commercial property with an alarm system shall pay to the City of Garden City a fee for each false alarm responded to by the police or fire departments within a calendar year. For the first three false alarms, there shall be no fee, but a warning in writing shall be given. For the fourth and all further responses in any calendar year, the following fees shall apply:
EXPAND
Number of False Alarms Response Fee Per Call
4—10 $50.00
11—20 $75.00
21—30 $100.00
In excess of 30 $125.00
  (d)
Exceptions. Each of the following circumstances shall not constitute a false alarm and no fee shall be assessed:
(1)
Alarm conditions activated by a person working on the alarm system with prior notification to the city police and/or fire department.
(2)
Alarms which can be substantiated as being activated by electrical interruptions, floods, storm conditions, or other natural disasters.
(e)
Appeal. Any owner or lessee of an alarmed premises may appeal the assessment of a false alarm service fee to the city administrator. Such appeal shall be in writing and filed with the city administrator within ten days of the notification of the assessment. Upon appeal, the city administrator may consider the facts and circumstances of the false alarm (i.e., whether the false alarm was caused by violent conditions of nature or other extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the alarm user), and other relevant information.
(f)
Shutoff devices on alarm systems. Alarm systems employing audible signals shall be equipped with shutoff devices that automatically silence the audible signal 20 minutes after the alarm is initially activated.
(g)
Maintenance to minimize false alarms; response by owner of commercial property. The owner or lessee of any residential or commercial property with an alarm system shall maintain the premises and alarm system in a manner that will minimize or eliminate false alarms. The owner or lessee of any commercial property with an alarm system shall respond or cause their representative to appear at the system location within a reasonable period of time when notified by the city police or fire department or monitoring company to provide access to the premises, deactivate the alarm system, or provide security at the alarm location.
(h)
No response to frequent alarms; appeal of no-response determination.
(1)
When the chief of police determines whether to make an immediate dispatch in response to notification of a signal from a security alarm system, the chief may disregard a call for police assistance when:
a.
The call for assistance comes from an alarm system for a premises that has a record of sending more than three false alarms within a calendar year; and
b.
The call is the only basis for making the dispatch.
(2)
The chief may consider such a call for assistance as an additional factor in the chief's decision to order an immediate police response when an in-person call, verification from a person at or near the premises, or other independent evidence shows a need for immediate police assistance at the premises.
(3)
To discourage alarms, the chief shall adopt a process of sending a letter or delivering other written notice informing the alarm user who has had a false alarm of the consequences of excessive false alarms, the need to take corrective action, and the prospect that more than three false alarms in a calendar year shall result in the police disregarding alarms from the premises and not responding to requests for immediate police assistance unless there is an in-person call for assistance from someone at or near the premises or other independent information that verifies the need for an immediate police response.
(4)
Before determining not to respond to alarms from a premises as specified above, the chief shall send or deliver notice to the alarm user that:
a.
More than three false alarms have been received from the property within a calendar year;
b.
The remedy authorized in subsection (1), above, may be taken;
c.
The alarm system user may request a hearing before the chief or the chief's designee and explain why the chief should not take the proposed action;
d.
If no hearing is requested, the department will after ten days from the delivery of the notice disregard alarms from the premises unless there is an in-person call for assistance from someone at or near the premises or other independent information that verifies the need for an immediate police response; and
e.
A requirement of an in-person communication or other verification shall remain in effect for a period of six months.
(5)
If a hearing is requested, the chief shall schedule the hearing within ten days of the receipt of the request. At the hearing, the chief may consider such factors as the steps that the alarm user has taken, or is taking, to correct the problem; the incidents of crime in the area of the premises; the facts and circumstances of the false alarm; and other relevant information presented by the alarm user.
(6)
The chief may suspend or cancel the remedy under subsection (1), above, if the chief determines that the alarm user has taken appropriate actions to prevent the recurrence of false alarms.
(i)
Failure to pay. The payment of false alarm service fees billed to a business is a condition of that business operating within the city. The city administrator is authorized to withhold issuing or renewing a business license or business tax certificate to a business which has failed to pay a false alarm service fee. Any business which operates or continues to operate within the city when its business certificate or license has been withheld for nonpayment of the false alarm service fee will be deemed to be operating without a certificate or license, and will be subject to the penalties resulting therefrom.
(Ord. of 4-15-96, § 1; Ord. of 11-4-96(2), §§ 1, 2; Ord. of 2-3-97(1), § 1; Ord. of 3-6-00, § 1)
Cross reference— Fire department, § 34-31 et seq.
Sec. 46-30. - Motor vehicle accident/police incident report fee.
Any member of the public requesting a reproduction of a motor vehicle accident or police incident report subject to disclosure shall be charged a copying fee of $0.25 per page of said report.
(Ord. of 4-1-96, § 1; Ord. of 7-17-00, § 1)
