PART I - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 105), page 3824. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - [Terms of commissioners.]
The terms of the commissioners of Gilmer County serving on the effective date of this Act shall end when the new commissioners elected pursuant to this Act take office.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 105), page 3824, § 1)
Section 2. - [Composition of board of commissioners; chairperson; elections; vacancies.]
(a)
There is established in Gilmer County a board of commissioners, which board shall be the governing authority of said county and shall be composed of a chairperson and two other members to be elected by a majority of the qualified voters of the entire county voting in elections held for that purpose. All such elections shall be held and conducted as provided in O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq., the "Georgia Election Code."
(b)
The chairperson and other members of said board of commissioners shall have resided within Gilmer County at least one year prior to their election. The chairperson shall be at least 25 years of age prior to his or her election and the other members shall be at least 21 years of age prior to their election.
(c)
For the purposes of electing the chairperson and other members of said board, candidates for chairperson shall offer as candidates for that office, and there shall be two commissioner posts, to be designated Post 1 and Post 2, for the other two commissioners. Candidates for commissioner shall designate the commissioner post for which they are offering. All candidates for chairperson and commissioner may reside anywhere within Gilmer County.
(d)
If legally possible, the first board of commissioners of Gilmer County, as provided in this section, shall be elected at a special election to be held on the Tuesday following the first Monday in November, 1995, and shall take office on the first day of January, 1996. The first commissioners elected for Post 1 and Post 2 shall serve for a term of one year and until their successors are elected and qualified. Their successors shall be elected at the general election in 1996 and shall take office on January 1, 1997, for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. The first chairperson elected shall serve for a term of five years and until his or her successor is elected and qualified. If not legally possible to hold a special election at this time, then such election shall be held on the next possible date and the first Post 1 and Post 2 commissioners shall take office immediately thereafter for terms to expire on January 1, 1997, and when their successors are elected and qualified. The first chairperson shall also take office after the first legally possible election for a term to expire on January 1, 2001, and when his or her successor is elected and qualified. Thereafter, successors to members shall be elected at the general election immediately preceding the expiration of the members' terms of office and shall take office on the first day of January immediately following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(e)
(1)
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any member of said board when more than six months remain before the expiration of the term of office, it shall be the duty of the election superintendent of Gilmer County, within 15 days after such vacancy occurs, to issue the call for a special election for the purpose of filling such vacancy for the unexpired term. Any such special election shall be governed by the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq., the "Georgia Election Code." In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any member of said board when six months or less remain before the expiration of the term of office, such vacancy shall not be filled, and the remaining members of the board of commissioners shall constitute the governing authority of Gilmer County until a successor is elected at the next general election. In the event all positions on the board of commissioners become vacant for any reason, the judge of the Probate Court of Gilmer County shall serve as the governing authority of Gilmer County until such vacancies are filled by special election or until new members are elected at the general election as provided in this Act.
(2)
In addition to any other events creating a vacancy on the board of commissioners, the office of a member of the board shall be immediately vacated if the member moves his or her residence from Gilmer County.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 105), page 3824, § 2)
Section 3. - [Compensation and expenses of board of commissioners.]
The chairperson of the board of commissioners shall be the chief administrative officer of the county and shall devote his or her full time to the duties of the office. The members of the board of commissioners other than the chairperson shall serve part time. The chairperson shall receive an annual base salary equal to the minimum annual base salary received by the sheriff of Gilmer County under O.C.G.A. § 15-16-20(a)(1), increased by 10 percent of such amount, which increased amount shall be the adjusted base salary. The members of the board of commissioners other than the chairperson, shall receive annual base salaries equal to 18 percent of the minimum annual base salary received by the sheriff of Gilmer County under O.C.G.A. § 15-16-20(a)(1). Those commissioners annual base salaries shall be increased by 10 percent of that base salary amount, which increased amount shall be the adjusted base salaries. The adjusted base salary for the chairperson and each commissioner shall be further increased by any cost-of-living adjustment or general performance increase granted state employees and shall be calculated under O.C.G.A. § 15-16-20(a)(2), which increased amount shall be the inflation adjusted base salary. That inflation adjusted base salary shall be further increased by adding to it the product obtained by multiplying that salary by the percentage which equals 5 percent times the number of completed four-year terms of office that person served in any elected office after December 31, 2000, effective the first day of January following the completion of each such period of service, except that, with regard to the chairperson, the inflation adjusted base salary shall be further increased by adding to it the product obtained by multiplying that salary by the percentage which equals 5 percent times the number of completed and partially completed terms of office that chairperson served in any elected office after December 31, 2000, effective the first day of January following the completion of each such period of service. The compensation provided by this section shall be payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of Gilmer County. The county shall also provide all employee benefits for commissioners in accordance with its policies. The chairperson and other commissioners shall not be entitled to any additional compensation for serving on any other public board or public authority by virtue of their office. The chairperson and members of the board of commissioners may be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred in the discharge of their duties. Such reimbursement shall only be made after proper documentation has been provided to the county clerk upon approval by a majority of the board at a regularly scheduled meeting.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 105), page 3824, § 3; 2000 Ga. Laws (Act No. 526), page 3627, § l; 200 I Ga. Laws (Act No. 70), page 376 1, § l; Res. No. 19-043, 3-14-19)
Section 4. - [Oath of office for board of commissioners.]
(a)
The chairperson and each member of said board, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties as such, shall take and subscribe before the judge of the Probate Court of Gilmer County the following oath, to wit:
"I do hereby solemnly swear that I will faithfully discharge the duties of commissioner of Gilmer County, Georgia, that I will account for all funds and property of said county coming into my possession, and that I will uphold to the best of my ability the ordinances and resolutions of Gilmer County, Georgia, and the laws and Constitutions of the State of Georgia and the United States of America, so help me God."
(b)
Such commissioners shall, before entering upon the duties of their office, give a bond in the sum of $10,000.00 each, to be approved by the judge of the probate court, and payable to the judge of the probate court and his or her successors in office, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of their duties and to account for all funds and property of said county coming into their possession. The surety on said bonds shall be a corporate surety company authorized to do business in this state, and the premiums therefor shall be paid from county funds.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 105), page 3824, § 4)
Section 5. - [Meetings of board of commissioners.]
Said board of commissioners shall hold a regular meeting for the transaction of public business pertaining to county matters on the second Thursday in each month of the year unless such day conflicts with a holiday or is otherwise appropriately changed with public notice. Any such meeting shall be held at a specified time in any county or community facility designated in the notice. Said board of commissioners may hold other sessions at any time it deems proper or upon the call of the chairperson. The members of said board of commissioners shall be authorized to administer oaths and hear testimony as to all matters over which they have jurisdiction when meeting to conduct business pertaining to the county.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 105), page 3824, § 5; 1997 Ga. Laws (Act No. 267), page 4187, § 1; Ord. of 4-12-2001, § 1; Res. No. 13-022, 3-14-2013)
Section 6. - [Existing ordinances and resolutions to remain in force.]
All ordinances and resolutions adopted by the board of commissioners of Gilmer County, Georgia, prior to the effective date of this Act shall remain in full force and effect and are not repealed, modified, or changed by this Act.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 105), page 3824, § 6)
Section 7. - [Powers of board of commissioners.]
The board of commissioners of Gilmer County, Georgia, is authorized to enact ordinances, rules, resolutions, and regulations implementing the powers granted by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia to the governing authorities of the various counties in the State of Georgia. The board of commissioners shall not disburse or pay out any county funds unless the same shall have been approved and disbursed in accordance with the county's written policy thereon, provided that this requirement shall not apply to the jury scrip issued by the clerk of the superior court and orders drawn by the judge of the superior court and district attorney. In addition, the board shall have the following powers and duties:
(1)
To cause the Code of Ordinances of Gilmer County to be updated at least annually;
(2)
To maintain, or cause to be maintained, an accurate accounting of all financial affairs of the county and to submit a report thereof to the people annually;
(3)
To inspect, at least annually, roads, bridges, buildings, or other public works of the county and to submit a report of same to the people;
(4)
To prepare annually and cause to be filed in the permanent records of the county an inventory of all county property, both real and personal, which inventory shall show the amount of insurance coverage provided for each building, vehicle, or other item of county property;
(5)
To undertake and transact such other business as is necessary for the orderly conduct of county affairs; and
(6)
To prepare and submit to the grand jury, at each term of the Superior Court of Gilmer County, a report which shall show the ad valorem taxes collected from each district of said county and all other taxes collected in each district and an itemized statement of all receipts and expenditures and the source from whence received and from whom received and to whom paid and for what purpose same was expended and the vouchers therefor and also the number and names of parties to whom paid with correct itemized amounts so received and paid out.
(7)
To adopt annually no later than April 1st of each calendar year and amend thereafter as needed, a road paving priority list that is to be paid in part or whole by local funds. No county road shall be paid without having been first adopted on the list.
(8)
To prepare and submit annually at the beginning of each year, an organizational chart of the county identifying the department head positions. When hiring an individual as a department head, as defined by the organizational chart of the county, such hire shall be by majority vote of the Board of Commissioners, further conditioned any candidate proposed shall be approved by the chairman. When dismissing or terminating an individual as a department head, as defined by the organization chart of the county, such dismissal or termination shall be by majority vote of the Board of Commissioners. When a department head position is vacated for any reason, the chairman shall have the discretion to hire or promote an employee as an interim department head for a period of no longer than a total of 90 days.
(9)
To prepare and adopt each calendar year, a detailed list of county property that is no longer useful in the service of the county.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 105), page 3824, § 7; Res. No. 09-095, 12-10-2009; Res. No. 11-057, 8-25-2011; Res. No. 16-042, 4-14-2016)
Section 8. - [Quorum for board of commissioners.]
(a)
Two members of the board shall constitute a quorum. Two votes are required to pass any measure before the board. There shall be no proxy voting.
(b)
The chairperson of the board shall:
(1)
Preside at all meetings of the board except that, in the chairperson's absence, the senior in tenure commissioner shall preside, and shall vote the same as other members of the board with the additional requirement that be or she should vote on all measures before the board;
(2)
Be recognized as the official head of Gilmer County by state, federal, and other authorities for military and ceremonial functions;
(3)
See that all laws and ordinances of the county are enforced; and
(4)
Perform such other duties as may be required by the board.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 105), page 3824, § 8; 2001 Ga. Laws (Act No. 70), page 3761, § 2)
Section 9. - [County clerk and county attorney.]
(a)
County clerk. The board of commissioners shall appoint a clerk, whose salary shall be determined by the board, to be paid monthly out of the county treasury, and it shall be the duty of said clerk to attend all meetings of the board of commissioners and keep complete and orderly minutes of all such meeting. The clerk shall file and keep in the order of their date all original orders and papers, petitions, applications, and other papers addressed to the board of commissioners concerning county business. All the books, files, and records required to be used or kept in the office of the board of commissioners shall always be ready and open to inspection of any taxpayer of the county during normal working hours. Said clerk before entering on the discharge of his or her duties shall be required to give bond in any amount to be determined by the board for the faithful performance of his or her duties and shall take the same oath as required by Commissioner. Said clerk shall hold said office at the pleasure of the board of commissioners.
(b)
County attorney. The board of commissioners and every new board elected as provided in this Act, shall appoint a county attorney no later than April 1 of each year. The county attorney shall serve at the pleasure of the board and may be discharged upon a vote of a majority of the board. The county attorney shall: (a) Act as a legal advisor, attorney, and counsel to the board of commissioners and all of its officers in matters relating to their official duties: (b) Prepare or supervise preparation of all contracts, bonds, and other instruments in writing in which the county government is concerned; and (c) Perform such other duties as may be required by law, ordinance, or resolution of the board of commissioners. The county attorney may not represent any county official or employee if the representation of the county official or employee conflicts with the interest of the county government. In such cases, the board of commissioners may employ separate counsel to represent the county official or employee in which the county government is obligated to provide representation for such county official or employee. If needed, the board of commissioners may appoint other attorney(s) to represent the board or to assist the county attorney upon such terms and conditions as the board may consider appropriate. No person who serves as county attorney or assistant county attorney may represent any client before the board of commissioners. No person who is a member of the same law firm as the county attorney may represent any client before the board of commissioners. No person who serves as county attorney and no person who is a member of the same law firm as the county attorney may represent any municipality as city attorney located within the county. The compensation of the county attorney shall be fixed by the board of commissioners upon such terms and conditions as may be approved by the board.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 105), page 3824, § 9; Ord. of 4-12-2001, § 2; Ord. of 10-25-2001, § 1; Res. No. 16-042, 4-14-2016)
Section 10. - [Purchases by board of commissioners; disposal of surplus property.]
(a)
The board of commissioners, being required to conduct county business, set an annual budget, decide on other sources of income and what services will be provided with those funds may purchase any machinery, tools, equipment, supplies, fund and complete any project which may be needed in the day to day operations of the county along with those required by law in any manner which will result in the highest quality outcome at the lowest cost. To aide in accomplishing this, any item, service or project which is expected to exceed $50,000.00 in a calendar year shall be purchased through a sealed bid or sealed negotiable proposal process, which-ever the board of commissioners deems appropriate (checks or electronic payments for previously adopted/appropriated capital expenditures over $25,000.00 will require two signatures of the members of the board of commissioners). All bids or proposals shall state clearly what is being bid on or proposals made for, a time frame for completion, the importance of price and other factors needed to determine a successful bidder along the requirements the bidder must meet. This will be advertised in the local legal organ for two consecutive weeks immediately prior to the opening of the bids or proposals. All bids will be made public upon opening and all proposals, after negotiations, are finished and contract is awarded. Both will be filed for a period of two years in the office of the board of commissioners for public inspection.
This section shall not apply to the maintenance or repair of goods or the purchase of goods which have been declared surplus by and which are purchased from or through a federal, state or governmental department or agency or the purchase of goods at the same or better price of a State of Georgia equivalent bid price or when purchased as used equipment satisfying the needs of the county or whenever an emergency condition exists which presents a threat to the safety, health and welfare of the citizens of the county and whenever such requirements would cause undue delay in the delivery of essential county services under such conditions.
This section shall not apply to the goods and services that are mandated by federal or state law to be awarded in a prescribed manner.
This section shall also not apply to the purchase of fuel (e.g. aviation fuel, diesel fuel, gasoline, natural gas or propane).
Exempted from this section are consultant, legal and professional services and the procurement of any item purchased through a brokerage service such as health insurance, liability insurance, employee benefits and so forth.
Exempted from this section are those expenditures for the county's construction and maintenance of its public roads that are governed by state law under Title 32, Highway, Bridges and Ferries (O.C.G.A. 32-1-1, et seq.).
(b)
The board of commissioners may dispose of unserviceable county property in any manner deemed in the best interest of the county as decided at a regular meeting. Any proceeds received therefrom will be deposited in the county treasury.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 105), page 3824, § 10; 1997 Ga. Laws (Act No. 267), page 4187, § 2; 1998 Ga. Laws (Act No. 636), page 3869, § 1; Ord. of 4-12-2001, § 3; Res. No. 06-49, 3-9-2006; Res. No. 09-095, 12-10-2009; Res. No. 11-057, 8-25-2011; Res. No. 11-069, 10-27-2011; Res. No. 12-067, 9-27-2012; Res. No. 12-072, 10-11-2012; Res. No. 15-092, 6-11-2015; Res. No. 16-076, 6-9-2016; Res. No. 17-095, 8-10-2017; Res. No. 17-136, 11-9-2017)
Section 11. - [Repealer.]
An Act creating a Board of Commissioners of Gilmer County, approved March 28, 1988 (Ga. Laws 1988, page 4886), is repealed in its entirety.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 105), page 3824, § 11)
Section 12. - [Submission for approval.]
It shall be the duty of the governing authority of Gilmer County to require the attorney therefor to submit this Act, pursuant to Section 5 of the Federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, to the United States Attorney General for approval.
Section 12A. - [Referendum to adopt land use ordinance.]
(a)
It is the purpose of this section to provide an advisory referendum within Gilmer County to determine whether the voters of Gilmer County prefer that the Gilmer County Board of Commissioners adopt a land use (zoning) ordinance for the unincorporated area of Gilmer County.
(b)
Unless prohibited by the Federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, it shall be the duty of the election superintendent of Gilmer County to call and conduct an advisory election as provided in this section for the purpose of submitting a question to the electors of said county to determine whether the majority of the electors voting at said election prefer that the Gilmer County Board of Commissioners adopt a land use (zoning) ordinance for the unincorporated area of Gilmer County. The election superintendent shall conduct that election on the date of the July 18, 2000, state-wide general primary and shall issue the call and conduct that election as provided by general law. The superintendent shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the date thereof in the official organ of Gilmer County. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the words:
"Advisory Referendum Election
( )
YES Shall the Gilmer County Board of Commissioners adopt a land use (zoning)
( )
NO ordinance for the unincorporated area of Gilmer County?"
(c)
It shall be the duty of the election superintendent of Gilmer County to hold and conduct the advisory election provided for in this section and to tabulate the results of such election. It shall be the further duty of said election superintendent to certify the results of said election to the Secretary of State and to each member of the General Assembly whose senatorial or representative district lies wholly or partially within Gilmer County. The expense of such election shall be borne by Gilmer County.
(d)
It is found, determined, and declared that the holding of the advisory referendum election provided for in this section is in all respects for the benefit of the people of Gilmer County, is for the public purpose and is an essential governmental function for which public funds may be expended.
(2000 Ga. Laws (Act No. 525), page 3634, § 1)
Section 13. - [Call for special election to approve Act.]
Unless prohibited by the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, the election superintendent of Gilmer County shall call and conduct an election as provided in this section for the purpose of submitting this Act to the electors of Gilmer County for approval or rejection. The election superintendent shall conduct this election on the earliest date therefor permissible under O.C.G.A. § 21-2-540 or, if any other Act enacted by [the] General Assembly of Georgia at the regular session in 1995 requires a referendum or special election in Gilmer County in 1995, on the same date as such other referendum or special election. The election superintendent shall issue the call and conduct that election as provided by general law. The superintendent shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the date thereof in the official organ of Gilmer County. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the words:
"( )
YES Shall the Act, be approved which removes the current commissioners from office and changes
( )
NO the governing authority of Gilmer County from a five-member board of commissioners to a three-member board of commissioners to be composed of two commissioners and a chairperson to be elected county wide?"
All persons desiring to vote for approval of the Act shall vote "Yes," and those persons desiring to vote for rejection of the Act shall vote "No." If more than one-half of the votes cast on such question are for approval of the Act, then Sections 1 through 11 of this Act shall become effective for purposes of the election held pursuant to subsection (d) of Section 2 of this Act on the date the results are certified to the Secretary of State; and Sections 1 through 11 of this Act shall become effective for all purposes immediately following the election of the three-member board of commissioners provided for in this Act. If the Act is not so approved or if the election is not conducted as provided in this section, this Act shall not become effective and this Act shall be automatically repealed on the first day of January immediately following that election date.
The expense of such election shall be borne by Gilmer County. It shall be the election superintendent's duty to certify the result thereof to the Secretary of State.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 105), page 3824, § 13)
Section 14. - [Effective date.]
Except as otherwise provided in Section 13 of this Act, this Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 105), page 3824, § 14)
Section 15. - [Conflicts.]
All laws and parts of law in conflict with this Act are repealed.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 105), page 3824, § 15)
ARTICLE II. - BUILDING AUTHORITY[2]
AN ACT
To create and establish the Gilmer County Building Authority, a body corporate and politic and an instrumentality of the State of Georgia; to authorize the authority to acquire, construct, equip, maintain, and operate certain projects, including buildings and facilities for use by Gilmer County for its governmental, proprietary, and administrative functions; to provide for members of the authority and their terms, organization, and reimbursement; to provide for vacancies; to define certain terms and words; to confer powers and impose duties on the authority; to grant limitations to the authority; to authorize the authority to enter into contracts and leases pertaining to uses of such facilities, which contracts and leases may obligate the lessees to make payment for the use of the facilities for the term thereof and to pledge for that purpose money derived from taxation; to provide that no debt of Gilmer County or the State of Georgia shall be incurred by the exercise of any of the powers granted; to authorize the issuance of revenue bonds of the authority payable from the revenues, rents, and earnings and other functions of the authority to pay the costs of such projects; to authorize the collecting and pledging of such revenues, rents, and earnings for the payment of such bonds; to authorize the adoption of resolutions and the execution of trust indentures to secure the payment of such bonds and to define the rights of the holders of such bonds; to provide for a sinking fund; to make the bonds of the authority exempt from taxation; to provide the right and power for the authority to condemn property of every kind and character; to authorize the issuance of refunding bonds; to provide for the validation of such bonds and to fix the venue for jurisdiction of actions relating to any provision of this Act; to exempt the property and income of the authority from taxation; to provide for immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence; to provide that the property of the authority shall not be subject to levy and sale; to provide that certain moneys are trust funds; to provide that this Act shall be liberally construed; to define the scope of the authority's operation; to provide for disposition of property upon authority dissolution; to provide for severability; to provide an effective date; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Gilmer County Building Authority created.
There is created a public body corporate and politic to be known as the Gilmer County Building Authority, herein called "the authority," which shall be an instrumentality and a public corporation of the State of Georgia, the purpose of which shall be to acquire, construct, equip, maintain, and operate certain projects for use by Gilmer County for its governmental, proprietary, public, and administrative functions. The authority shall not be a state institution, nor a department or agency of the state, but shall be an instrumentality of the state, a mere creation of the state, being a distinct corporate entity and being exempt from the provisions of Article 2 of Chapter 17 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission Act." The authority shall have its principal office in Gilmer County, and its legal situs or residence for the purposes of this chapter shall be Gilmer County.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 1)
Section 2. - Membership.
The authority shall consist of three members who shall be eligible to succeed themselves and who shall be elected by the Board of Commissioners of Gilmer County. No more than one member of the authority may be a member of said board of commissioners. Any member of the authority who is a member of said board of commissioners shall serve for a term of office concurrent with such person's term of office as a member of said board of commissioners. Each member of the authority who is not a member of said board of commissioners shall serve for a term of office of three years, except that the initial terms of office of those members first appointed to the authority shall be specified at the time of appointment to be one, two, and, if no such member is a member of the board of commissioners, three years. After such initial terms, those members who are not members of said board of commissioners shall serve for terms of office of three years each. Members of the authority shall serve for the terms of office so specified and until the appointment and qualification of their respective successors. Vacancies on the authority shall be filled by said board of commissioners for the remainder of the unexpired term and until the appointment and qualification of a successor. Immediately after their election, the members of the authority shall enter upon their duties. The authority shall elect one of its members as chairperson and one as vice chairperson. The secretary-treasurer of the authority shall be appointed by the authority and need not be a member of the authority. Two members of the authority shall constitute a quorum and no vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority and, in every instance, a majority vote of a quorum shall authorize any legal act of the authority, including all things necessary to authorize and issue revenue bonds. The members of the authority shall receive no compensation for their services but may be reimbursed by the authority for their actual expenses properly incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government and shall have perpetual existence.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 2)
Section 3. - Definitions.
As used herein, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(1)
The word "authority" shall mean the Gilmer County Building Authority created by this Act.
(2)
The word "project" shall mean and include real and personal property acquired or held by the authority, including all land, buildings, structures, sanitary and surface water sewers, and other public property determined by the authority to be desirable for the efficient operation of any department, board, office, commission, or agency of Gilmer County, or of the State of Georgia, in the performance of its governmental, proprietary, and administrative functions.
(3)
The term "cost of project" shall include the cost of lands, buildings, improvements, machinery, equipment, property, easements, rights, franchises, material, labor, services acquired or contracted for, plans and specification, financing charges, construction costs, interest prior to and during construction; architectural, accounting, engineering, inspection, administrative, fiscal, and legal expenses; expenses incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; and expenses incident to the acquiring, constructing, equipping, and operating of any project or any part thereof, and to the placing of the same in operation and to the condemnation of any property incident to such construction and operation.
(4)
The term "revenue bonds" shall mean revenue bonds issued under the provisions of Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the Revenue Bond Law, and under the provisions of this Act. The obligations authorized under this Act may be issued by the authority in the manner authorized under the Revenue Bond Law.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 3)
Section 4. - Powers.
The authority shall have all the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of this Act including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power:
(1)
To sue and be sued;
(2)
To adopt and alter a corporate seal;
(3)
To make and execute with public and private persons and corporations contracts, trusts, leases, rental agreements, and other instruments relating to its projects and in furtherance of the purposes of the authority, including contracts for constructing, renting, and leasing of its projects for the use of any county or municipality in this state;
(4)
To acquire in its own name by purchase on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws of the State of Georgia applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, including the power to proceed as a condemning body under the provisions of Article 2 of Chapter 2 of Title 22 of the O.C.G.A., relating to proceedings before a special master, or by gift, grant, lease, or otherwise, real property, or rights and easements therein and franchises and personal property necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or disposition of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority. Title to any such property shall be held by the authority exclusively for the benefit of the public. The authority shall be under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned as provided herein except from the funds provided therefor and, in proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action, or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned; and no property shall be acquired as provided herein upon which any lien or other encumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money shall be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the amount of such lien or encumbrance;
(5)
To improve, extend, add to, reconstruct, renovate, or remodel any project or part thereof already acquired;
(6)
To pledge or assign any revenues, income, rent, charges, and fees received by the authority;
(7)
To appoint and select agents, engineers, architects, attorneys, fiscal agents, accountants, and employees and to provide for their compensation and duties;
(8)
To construct, reconstruct, acquire, own, alter, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, operate, manage, and equip projects located on land owned or leased by the authority;
(9)
To receive, accept, and use any contributions, loans, or grants by persons, firms, or corporations, including the State of Georgia and the United States of America, and any other contributions;
(10)
To pay all or part of the costs of any project from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from other lawful sources available to it;
(11)
To prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of and to exercise police powers over the projects managed or operated by the authority;
(12)
To accept, receive, and administer gifts, grants, loans and devises of money, material, and property of any kind, including loans and grants from the State of Georgia or the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may impose;
(13)
To sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign, pledge, mortgage, dispose of, grant in trust, or grant options for any real or personal property or interest therein in furtherance of the purposes of the authority;
(14)
As security for repayment of authority obligations, to pledge, mortgage, convey, assign, hypothecate, or otherwise encumber any property, real or personal, of such authority and to execute any trust agreement, indenture, or security agreement containing any provisions not in conflict with law, which trust agreement, indenture, or security agreement may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default, on such obligations, either in payment of principal or interest or in the performance of any term or condition, as are contained in such agreement or indenture;
(15)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes, to issue revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(16)
To exercise all powers usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions which are not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this state; and
(17)
Pursuant to proper resolution of the authority, to issue revenue bonds payable from the rents and revenues of the authority and its projects, which bonds may be issued in either fully negotiable coupon form, in which event they shall have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the law of Georgia, or they may be issued in whole or in part in nonnegotiable fully registered form without coupons, payable to a designated payee or to the registered assigns of the payee with such conversion privileges as the authority may provide, for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost associated with the projects authorized by the authority, including the cost of constructing, reconstructing, equipping, extending, adding to, or improving such projects, or for the purpose of refunding, as herein provided, any such bonds of the authority therefore issued. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds were issued, the surplus shall be paid into the fund provided for the payment of principal and interest on such bonds. All such revenue bonds shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with the procedure of Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the Revenue Bond Law, and in accordance with all terms and provisions thereof not in conflict herewith and in accordance with Code Section 50-17-1 of the O.C.G.A., relating to use of facsimile signatures on public securities, and, as security for the payment of any revenue bonds so authorized, any rents and revenue of the authority may be pledged and assigned. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose, and such bonds and all income therefrom shall be exempt from all taxation within the State of Georgia. For the purpose of the exemption from taxation of such bonds and the income therefrom, the authority shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 4)
Section 5. - Credit not pledged and debt not created by bonds.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not constitute a debt or a pledge of the faith and credit of the State of Georgia or Gilmer County; but such bonds shall be payable from the rentals, revenue, earnings, and funds of the authority as provided in the resolution, trust agreement, or indenture authorizing the issuance and securing the payment of such bonds; and the issuance of such bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate the state or said county to levy or pledge any form of taxation whatever for the payment thereof. No holder of any bond or receiver or trustee in connection therewith shall have the right to enforce the payment thereof against any property of the state or of said county, nor shall any such bond constitute a charge, lien, or encumbrance, legal or equitable, upon any such property. All such bonds shall contain on their face a recital setting forth substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 5)
Section 6. - Trust agreement.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of revenue bonds may be secured by an agreement or indenture made by the authority with a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or without the State of Georgia. Such trust agreement or indenture may pledge and assign rents, fees, charges, revenues, and earnings to be received by the authority. The resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds and such trust agreements or indenture may contain provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders, including the right of appointment of a receiver upon default of the payment of any principal or interest obligation and the right of any receiver or trustee to enforce collection of any rents, fees, charges, or revenues for use of the project or projects necessary to pay all costs of operation and all reserves provided for, all principal and interest on all bonds of the issue, all costs of collection, and all other costs reasonably necessary to accomplish the collection of such sums in the event of any default of the authority. Such resolution and such trust agreement or indenture may include covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property for and construction of the project and to the custody, safeguarding, and application of all funds and covenants providing for the operation, maintenance, repair, and insurance of the project or projects and may contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. Such trust agreement or indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in securing bonds and debentures of corporations and may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation, and repair of the project affected by such trust.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 6)
Section 7. - Refunding bonds.
The authority is authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue bonds of the authority for the purpose of calling, refunding, or refinancing any revenue bonds issued under the provisions hereof and then outstanding and to include in the amount of such refunding bonds all interest and any call premiums that may be required for the redemption and refunding of such outstanding bonds.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 7)
Section 8. - Venue of actions, jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions hereof or any action against the authority brought in the courts of the State of Georgia shall be brought in the Superior Court of Gilmer County, Georgia; and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions hereof shall be brought in said court, which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 8)
Section 9. - Revenue bond validation.
The petition for validation of all revenue bonds of the authority shall be brought against the authority, and any contracting party whose obligation is pledged as security for the payment of the bonds sought to be validated, as defendants, and the defendants shall be required to show cause, if any exists, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof shall not be adjudicated to be in all respects valid and binding upon such contracting parties. It shall be incumbent upon such defendants to defend against adjudication of the validity and binding effect of such contract or contracts or be forever bound thereby. Notice of such proceedings shall be included in the notice of the validation hearing required to be issued and published by the clerk of the Superior Court of Gilmer County in which court such validation proceedings shall be initiated.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 9)
Section 10. - Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of the authority or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished, impaired, or affected in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds. The provisions hereof shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds and, upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 10)
Section 11. - Revenues, earnings, rents, and charges; use.
(a)
For the purpose of earning sufficient revenue to make possible the financing of the construction of the project or projects of the authority with revenue bonds, the authority is authorized and empowered to fix, revise, and collect rents, fees, and charges on each project which it shall cause to be acquired or constructed. Such rents, fees, or charges to be paid for the use of such project or projects shall be so fixed and adjusted as to provide a fund sufficient with other revenue, if any, of such project or projects or of the authority:
(1)
To pay the cost of operating, maintaining, and repairing the project or projects, including reserves for insurance and extraordinary repairs and other reserves required by the resolution or trust agreement or indenture pertaining to such bonds and the issuance thereof, unless such cost shall be otherwise provided for;
(2)
To pay the principal of and interest on such revenue bonds as the same shall become due, including call premium, if any, the proceeds of which shall have been or will be used to pay the cost of such project or projects;
(3)
To comply with any sinking fund requirements contained in the resolution or trust agreement or indenture pertaining to the issuance of and security for such bonds;
(4)
To perform fully all provisions of such resolution and trust agreement or indenture relating to the issuance of or security for such bonds to the payment of which such rent is pledged;
(5)
To accumulate any excess income which may be required by the purchasers of such bonds or may be dictated by the requirements of such resolution, trust agreement, or indenture, or of achieving ready marketability of and low interest rates on such bonds; and
(6)
To pay any expenses in connection with such bond issue or of such project or projects, including but not limited to trustees', attorneys', and fiscal agents' fees.
(b)
Such rent shall be payable at such intervals as may be agreed upon and set forth in the rental contract or lease providing therefor, and any such contract or lease may provide for the commencement of rent payments to the authority prior to the completion of the undertaking by the authority of any such project and may provide for the payment of rent during such times as such project or projects may be partially or wholly untenantable.
(c)
Such rental contract or lease may obligate the tenants or lessees to operate, maintain, and keep in good repair, including complete reconstruction, if necessary, the rented or leased premises and projects, regardless of the cause of the necessity of such maintenance, repair, or reconstruction.
(d)
Such rental contract or lease may obligate the tenants or lessees to indemnify and save harmless the authority from any and all damage to persons and property occurring on or by reason of the leased property or improvements thereon and to undertake, at the expense of the tenants or lessees, the defense of any action brought against the authority by reason of injury or damages to persons or property occurring on or by reason of the leased premises.
(e)
In the event of any failure or refusal on the part of the tenants or lessees to perform punctually any covenant or obligation contained in any such rental contract or lease, the authority may enforce performance by any legal or equitable process against the tenants or lessees.
(f)
The authority shall be permitted to assign any rent payable to it, pursuant to such rental contract or lease, to a trustee or paying agent as may be required by the terms of the resolution or trust agreement or indenture relating to the issuance of and security for such bonds.
(g)
The use and disposition of the authority's revenue shall be subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or of the trust agreement or indenture, if any, securing the same.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 11)
Section 12. - Sinking fund.
The revenue, rents, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects and any and all revenue, rents, and earnings received by the authority, regardless of whether such revenue, rents, and earnings were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged, may be pledged by the authority to payment of the principal of and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as may be provided in any resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or in any trust instrument pertaining to such bonds, and such funds so pledged, from whatever source received, may include funds received from one or more or all sources and may be set aside at regular intervals into sinking funds for which provision may be made in any such resolution or trust instrument and which may be pledged to and charged with the payment of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall become due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall mature, (3) the necessary charges of any trustee or paying agent for paying such principal and interest, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase; and the use and disposition of any sinking fund may be subject to such regulation as may be provided for in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument securing the payment of the same.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 12)
Section 13. - Exemption from taxation.
The exercise of the powers conferred upon the authority hereunder shall constitute an essential governmental function for a public purpose, and the authority shall be required to pay no taxes or assessments upon any of the property acquired by it or under its jurisdiction, control, possession, or supervision or upon its activities in the operation and maintenance of property acquired by it or of buildings erected or acquired by it or any fees, rents, or other charges for the use of such property or buildings or other income received by the authority. The tax exemption herein provided shall not include an exemption from sales and use tax on property purchased by or for the use of the authority.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 13)
Section 14. - Immunity from tort actions.
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the State of Georgia; and the officers, agents, and employees of the authority, when in performance of work of the authority, shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as officers, agents, and employees of the State of Georgia. The authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligation of the authority.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 14)
Section 15. - Property not subject to levy and sale.
The property of the authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 15)
Section 16. - Trust funds.
All funds received pursuant to authority of Section 11 hereof, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds or as revenue, rents, fees, charges, or other earnings or as grants, gifts, or other contributions, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied by the authority, solely as provided herein; and the bondholders entitled to receive the benefits of such funds shall have a lien on all such funds until the same are applied as provided for in any such resolution or trust instrument of the authority.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 16)
Section 17. - Construction.
This Act and any other law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of its purposes.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 17)
Section 18. - Scope of operations.
The projects of the authority's operation shall be located in the territory embraced within the jurisdictional limits of Gilmer County as the same now or may hereafter exist.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 18)
Section 19. - Conveyance of property upon dissolution.
Should the authority for any reason be dissolved after full payment of all bonded indebtedness incurred hereunder, both as to principal and interest, title to all property of any kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution shall be conveyed to Gilmer County; or title to any such property may be conveyed prior to such dissolution in accordance with provisions which may be made therefor in any resolution or trust instrument relating to such property, subject to any liens, leases, or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at the time of such conveyance.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 19)
Section 20. - Effect of partial invalidity of Act.
Should any sentence, clause, phrase, or part of this Act be declared for any reason to be unconstitutional or invalid, the same shall not affect such remainder of this Act or any part hereof, other than the part so held to be invalid, but the remaining provisions of this Act shall remain in full force and effect; and it is the express intention of this Act to enact each provision of this Act independently of any other provision hereof.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 20)
Section 21. - Effective date.
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 21)
Section 22. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act No. 215), page 3738, § 22)
