Chapter 34 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-60 et seq.; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 34-1—34-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - YARD TRIMMINGS DISPOSAL

Sec. 34-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial solid waste means all types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other non-manufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
Composting means the controlled biological decomposition of organic matter into a stable, odor-free humus.
Leachate collection system means a system at a landfill for collection of the leachate which may percolate through the waste and into the soils surrounding the landfill.
Municipal solid waste means any solid waste derived from households, including garbage, trash and sanitary waste in septic tanks, and includes solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day-use recreation areas. The term "municipal solid waste" includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste but does not include solid waste from mining, agricultural or silvicultural operations or industrial processes or operations.
Municipal solid waste disposal facility means any facility or location where the final deposition of any amount of municipal solid waste occurs, whether or not mixed with or including commercial or industrial solid waste, including, but not limited to, municipal solid waste landfills.
Municipal solid waste landfill means a disposal facility where any amount of municipal solid waste, whether or not mixed with or including commercial waste, industrial waste, nonhazardous sludges or small quantity generator hazardous waste, is disposed of by means of placing an approved cover thereon.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetable residuals, and vegetable matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance, other than mining, agricultural and silvicultural operations.
(Ord. No. 96-1, § 1, 10-1-1996)
Sec. 34-20. - Prohibitions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to place or mix yard trimmings with municipal solid waste within the county.
(b)
Yard trimmings shall not be disposed of at any municipal solid waste disposal facility having a liner and leachate collection system or requiring vertical expansion located within the county.
(Ord. No. 96-1, § 1, 10-1-1996)
