Chapter 34 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 22; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 42.

Sec. 34-1. - Recreation board.
(a)
Short title. This section shall be known, referred to and may be cited as the "City of Glennville Municipal Recreation Board Ordinance."
(b)
Purpose of section. It is the intent of the city by this section to provide for the establishment of a recreation board to be empowered to provide established conduct and maintain a recreation system for and on behalf of the citizens of the city; to provide and supervise public playgrounds, playfields, indoor and outdoor recreation centers, and other recreation facilities owned or controlled by the city. The board shall be empowered to conduct or supervise any form of recreation or cultural activities that will employ the leisure time of the people in a wholesome or constructive manner.
(c)
Members. The city recreation board shall consist of seven persons to be appointed by the mayor. Each member shall serve without pay.
(d)
Term of office. The term of office of the members of the city recreation board shall be five years or until their successors are appointed and qualified.
(e)
Initial appointments. In making the initial appointments to the board following the enactment of the ordinance from which this section is derived, the mayor shall appoint two members to serve an initial two-year term, two members to serve an initial three-year term, two members to serve an initial four-year term, and one member to serve an initial one-year term. Each member appointed at the end of the initial term shall be for a full five-year term.
(f)
Organization. Immediately after its appointment, the board shall meet and organize by electing one of its members as chairperson, and such other officers as it may deem necessary.
(g)
Director. The recreation board shall have the power to appoint, designate or hire someone to act as director who is trained or properly qualified to act in that capacity and such other personnel as the board deems fit and proper and necessary to successfully implement the goals and objectives of the board.
(h)
Budget. The recreation board shall annually submit a budget to the mayor and council for its approval. The board may receive fees and revenues from the operation of recreation facilities and programs, and may also solicit and receive gifts, bequests and/or grants to be used for acquisition, maintenance or expansion of recreation facilities or other recreational purposes.
(i)
Annual report. The recreation board shall make an annual report to the mayor and council and such other reports as may from time to time be requested by the mayor and council.
(j)
Vacancies. Any vacancies that occur by death or resignation shall be filled by the mayor only for the unexpired term of the board member being replaced.
(k)
Conflicts. Whenever the provision of this section and those of some other ordinance or statute apply to the same subject matter, that ordinance requiring the highest, or more strict, standard shall govern. All of the ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this section, to the extent of such conflict and not further, are hereby repealed to the extent necessary to give this section full force and effect.
(Ord. of 5-7-2002, §§ 1—11)
Sec. 34-2. - Regulations governing use of public parks and facilities
(a)
Use of grounds and facilities in general. Each person, firm, or corporation using the public parks and grounds shall clean up all debris, extinguish all fires when such fires are permitted, and leave the premises in good order and the facilities in a neat and sanitary condition.
(b)
Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation using such parks, grounds, or facilities to either perform or permit to be performed any of the following acts:
(1)
Wilfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, or displace or remove, any building; bridges; tables; benches; fireplaces; railings; paving or paving material; waterlines or other public utilities or parts or appurtenances thereof; signs, notices, or placards whether temporary or permanent; monuments; stakes, posts, or other boundary markers; or other structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances whatsoever, either real or personal.
(2)
Throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay or other body of water in or adjacent to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer, or drain flowing into such waters, any substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or may result in the pollution of said waters.
(3)
Damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any tree or plant or any part thereof.
(4)
Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, chase, tease, shoot, or throw missiles at animal, reptile, or bird; or remove or have in his possession the young of any wild animal, or the eggs, nest, or young of any other animal.
(5)
Bring in or dump, deposit, or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, refuse, or other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in or contiguous to any park, or left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be placed in the proper receptacles where these are provided; and where receptacles are not so provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for the presence of the same, and properly disposed of elsewhere.
(6)
Disturb the peace, or use any profane or obscene language.
(7)
Endanger the safety of any person by any conduct or act.
(8)
Commit any assault or battery, or engage in fighting.
(9)
Carry, possess, or drink any alcoholic beverage in the park.
(10)
Violate any rule for the use of the park, made or approved by the recreation board or mayor and council.
(11)
Prevent any person from using any park, or any of its facilities, or interfere with such use in compliance with this chapter and with the rules applicable to such use.
(12)
Swim, bathe, or wade in any waters or waterways in or adjacent to any park, except in such waters and at such places as are provided therefor, and in compliance with such regulations as are herein set forth or may be hereafter adopted.
(13)
Dress or undress in any vehicle, toilet, or other place, except in such structures as may be provided for that purpose.
(c)
Hours of operation. The public parks shall be open daily to the public during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m., and it shall be unlawful for any person or persons other than city personnel conducting city business therein to occupy or be present in such parks during any other hours. Any section or part of a park, or an entire park, may be declared closed to the public by the recreation director at any time and for any interval of time, either temporarily or at regular or stated intervals.
(d)
Group activity. Whenever more than ten members of any group, association, or organization desire to use any park facilities for a particular purpose, such as picnics, parties, or other entertainment performances, a representative of such group, association, or organization shall first obtain a permit from the recreation director. The recreation director shall grant the application for a permit if it appears that the group, association, or organization will not interfere with the general use of the park by individual members of the public, and if the said group, association, or organization meets all other reasonable conditions which may be imposed by the recreation director. Such application may contain a requirement for an indemnity bond to protect the city from any liability of any kind or character and to protect city property from damage.
(e)
Picnic areas and use. No person in a park shall use any portion of the picnic areas, or of any of the buildings or structures therein, for the purpose of holding picnics to the exclusion of other persons, nor shall any person use such areas and facilities for an unreasonable time if the facilities are crowded.
(f)
Other regulations.
(1)
Games. It shall be unlawful for any person to take part in or abet the playing of any games involving thrown or otherwise propelled objects such as balls, stones, arrows, javelins, or model airplanes except in areas set apart for such forms of recreation. The playing of rough or potentially dangerous games such as football, baseball, and soccer is prohibited except on the fields, courts, or areas provided therefor.
(2)
Camping. It shall be unlawful for any person to set up tents, shacks, or any other temporary shelter for the purpose of overnight camping, nor shall any person leave in a park after closing hours any movable structure or special vehicle to be used, or that could be used, for such purpose, such as a house-trailer, camp-trailer, camp-wagon, or the like.
(3)
Fires. It shall be unlawful for any person to build or attempt to build a fire except in such areas and under such regulations as may be designated by the recreation director. No person shall drop, throw, or otherwise scatter lighted matches, burning cigarettes, or cigars, tobacco paper, or other inflammable material within any park area or on any highway, road, or street abutting or contiguous thereto.
(4)
Animals. It shall be unlawful to bring any dangerous animal into any park, and it shall be unlawful to permit any dog to be in any park unless such dog is on a leash not more than ten feet long.
(5)
Automobiles. It shall be unlawful to drive or park any automobile except on a street, driveway, or parking lot in any park; or to park or leave any such vehicle in any place other than one established for public parking.
(6)
Sales. It shall be unlawful for any person to vend, sell, peddle, or offer for sale any commodity or article within any park except those so authorized by the recreation director.
(7)
Alcoholic beverages. It shall be unlawful for any person within any park to have in his possession, custody or control any alcoholic beverage of any kind whatsoever.
(8)
Signs. It shall be unlawful for anyone to paste, glue, tack, or otherwise post any sign, placard, advertisement, or inscription whatever, nor shall any person erect or cause to be erected any sign whatever on any public lands or highways or roads adjacent to a park, except that these provisions shall not apply to any properly authorized government official in pursuit of any official duty.
(Code 1982, § 8-101)
