ARTICLE VI. - SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— State department of transportation control of signs on public roads generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-50 et seq.; outdoor advertising generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-6-70 et seq.

Sec. 62-571. - Conformance with article provisions required.
No sign may be erected or maintained other than signs of the character, size, location and construction expressly authorized by this article relating to the erection, alteration or maintenance of signs and similar devices.
(Ord. of 2-7-1997, § 1600)
Sec. 62-572. - Permitted signs.
The following signs may be erected, and maintained subsequent to section 62-573:
(1)
One sign for each family residing on the premises, indicating the name of the owner or occupant or pertaining to a permitted accessory use, provided that such sign is not larger than 200 square inches.
(2)
Signs of schools, colleges, churches, hospitals, sanitariums or other institutions of a similar nature relating exclusively to the institutions erecting the same, may be erected and maintained; provided, however, that the side of any such sign is not in excess of 20 square feet and not more than two such signs are placed on a property held in single and separate ownership, unless such property fronts upon more than one street, in which event not more than two such signs may be erected on each frontage. No two signs shall be less than 25 feet apart.
(3)
All temporary signs, provided that:
a.
The size of any such sign is not in excess of 32 square feet; and
b.
Not more than two such signs are placed upon any property held in single and separate ownership, unless such property fronts upon more than one street, in which event not more than two such signs may be erected on each frontage. No two signs shall be less than 25 feet apart.
Such signs must be removed promptly upon completion of the work.
(4)
Signs indicating the name of a particular organization or estate may be erected and maintained provided that the area of any such sign shall not exceed six square feet, and any such sign shall be located on the same lot as the organization or estate but precluding signs designated within chapter 46, subdivisions.
(5)
All businesses or commercial signs must be located on the same lot to which it refers, provided that the total sign area on any one street frontage of any property in single and separate ownership.
(6)
Signs prohibiting or otherwise controlling trespassing upon particular premises, or indicating the private nature of a road, driveway or premises may be erected and maintained, provided that the area of any such sign shall not exceed two square feet.
(7)
Signs which exist at the time the ordinance from which this article is derived becomes effective and are maintained in connection with a business then existing and lawfully conducted, may be maintained, repaired or replaced with signs similar in size and character, but may not be enlarged or otherwise substantially altered.
(Ord. of 2-7-1997, § 1601; Res. No. 17-03, 9-13-2016)
Sec. 62-573. - Provisions applicable to commercial, institutional or industrial development signs.
The provisions of this article apply to all properties zoned and intended for commercial, institutional, and industrial use.
(1)
Freestanding signs. Freestanding signs may consist of either stanchion signs or monument signs.
a.
Stanchion signs.
1.
Number. Stanchion signs shall be limited to one sign per parcel per street frontage. Where a parcel has frontage on more than one street, one stanchion sign shall be allowed on each frontage.
2.
Height. Stanchion signs shall be erected to a height of no more than 18 feet in C-1 district, 25 feet in C-2 district, and 35 feet in C-3 and industrial districts.
3.
Sign area.
i.
Stanchion signs shall not exceed 64 square feet in sign area for signs fronting Highway US 301.
ii.
Stanchion signs for all other areas shall not exceed 35 square feet in sign area.
b.
Monument signs. Monument signs may be erected in lieu of stanchion signs at the option of the sign owner. Monument signs shall not exceed eight feet in height and 60 square feet in sign area.
(2)
Building signs.
a.
Building signs may include a combination of wall, canopy, projecting, and awning signs. Building signs shall be limited to two signs per street frontage per building. Window signs must be mounted inside of windows or made of a material suitable for outdoor use.
b.
The aggregate sign area of all building signs shall be no more than ten percent of the total store frontage and not to exceed 160 square feet.
c.
Wall signs shall not project more than six inches from the surface upon which they are mounted.
d.
Awning signs shall not project above the parapet wall and shall not project beyond the building face by more than six feet.
e.
Projecting signs shall be supported by overhead supports and shall leave a minimum of eight feet of clearance over any sidewalk or walkway.
(3)
Drive-through windows. In addition to any other freestanding signs authorized, if such property contains a business premises where materials are delivered at a drive-through delivery point other than on the front side of the building, then one additional freestanding sign per delivery point shall be allowed to be located on the property.
(4)
Downtown business district signs. All signs in the downtown business district must conform as per chapter 42, section 42-222, signage. The downtown business district is designated as Barnard Street between Veterans Boulevard and Tillman Streets.
(5)
Sign walker(s). Individual(s) carrying signs for business promotional purposes on public sidewalks must obtain a permit from the city. Signs may only contain information on the business they are promoting and shall be free of any lewd, racist or derogatory materials or images. Sign walkers shall not impede or prevent pedestrians from using the sidewalk.
(Ord. of 2-7-1997, § 1602; Res. No. 17-03, 9-13-2016; Res. No. 19-19, 5-7-2019)
Sec. 62-574. - General sign restrictions.
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, place or maintain any sign, signal, or device which meets the following:
(1)
Obsolete or left abandoned.
(2)
Not structurally safe, clean, and in good repair.
(3)
Signs attached to, drawn, or painted upon trees, rocks, or other natural features.
(4)
Signs emitting or utilizing any manner of any sound.
(5)
If illuminated, signs containing, including or illuminated by any flashing, intermittent, or moving lights except those contained in allowable changeable copy signs.
(6)
If illuminated, the illumination is not effectively shielded so as to prevent beams or rays of light from being directed at any portion of the traveled way and which are of such intensity or brilliance as to cause glare or to impair the vision of the driver of any motor vehicle, or which otherwise interfere with the operation of any motor vehicle.
(7)
If illuminated, the illumination is such that it interferes with the effectiveness of, or obscures, an official traffic sign, device, or signal.
(8)
Signs located so as to obscure, or otherwise interfere with the effectiveness of any official traffic sign, signal or device.
(9)
Signs located so as to obscure, or otherwise interfere with a motor vehicle operator's view of approaching, merging, or intersecting traffic.
(10)
Roof signs.
(11)
Signs advertising an activity that is illegal under state or federal laws or regulations.
(12)
Signs placed on any utility pole.
(13)
Billboards located less than 2,500 feet from another billboard.
(Ord. of 2-7-1997, § 1603; Res. No. 14-05, 9-3-2013; Res. No. 17-03, 9-13-2016)
Sec. 62-575. - Changeable copy signs and electronic message center signs.
(a)
Changeable copy signs and electronic message center signs are permitted as an integral part of any permanent signs which meet all other requirements of this article and further subject to the following restrictions:
(1)
The changeable copy of electronic message center portion of the sign shall not exceed 50 percent of the overall display surface area of the sign.
(2)
The total display area of any sign containing changeable copy panels shall not exceed the size limitation imposed elsewhere in this article.
(3)
Changeable copy signs and electronic message center signs will only be allowed as part of the original construction and erection of a sign which complies with specifications required by this article or as part of a significant structural alteration to an existing sign.
(4)
Electronic message center signs may only display static images lasting for at least eight seconds before transitioning to another static image. Transitions [from] one static image to the [next] may utilize frame effects so long animation and flashing is prohibited.
(5)
All electronic message center signs shall come equipped with automatic dimming technology that automatically adjusts the sign's brightness in direct correlation with natural ambient light conditions.
(6)
No electronic message center sign shall exceed a brightness level of 0.3 foot candles above ambient light as measured using a foot candle (Lux) meter at a preset distance depending on sign area, measured as follows:
EXPAND
Area of Sign

(square feet) Measurement Distance

(feet)
10 32
15 39
20 45
25 50
30 55
35 59
  (Res. No. 14-05, 9-3-2013)
Sec. 62-576. - Removal of signage.
Upon discontinuance of a business, all building and related signage on property relating to business shall be removed within 30 days of business closure.
(Res. No. 19-14, 3-5-2019)
Sec. 62-577. - Penalty for violation of article.
If any person is convicted of violating this article, they shall be subject to penalties as outlined in section 1-11.
(Res. No. 19-14, 3-5-2019)
Secs. 62-578—62-600. - Reserved.
