Chapter 2-22 - WATER AND SEWER COMMISSION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Note— (Ordinance of 9/19/91; Amended 10/3/91; 1/15/93; 3/18/93; 6/3/93)

2-22-1 - [Dissolution of The Glynn County Water and Sewer Commission.]
The Glynn County Water and Sewer Commission is hereby dissolved. All property of any kind held by the former Water and Sewer Commission is now the property of the Glynn County Board of Commissioners as set forth in Section 2-22-18 of the Code of Ordinances of Glynn County, Georgia. All employees of the former Water and Sewer Commission are hereby employed by the Glynn County Board of Commissioners at their current salary levels with all seniority and pension benefits intact. Signatories on all funds and accounts deposited with any bank in the name of the former Water and Sewer Commission are hereby changed to remove all previous signatories and substitute the Glynn County Administrator and Finance Director acting jointly.
(O-1995-02)
2-22-2—2-22-17 - Reserved.
2-22-18 - Disposition of Property Upon Dissolution.
a.
Glynn County Board of Commissioners upon adoption of a suitable ordinance or resolution may dissolve the Water and Sewer Commission at any time.
b.
In the event of dissolution of the Commission, all of its property, real and personal, tangible and intangible, shall be turned over to the County. The Board of Commissioners shall continue all contracts of the Commission which it had previously approved as the assignee of the Commission.
2-22-19 - Immunity from Certain Liability.
The Commission shall be construed to be a part of Glynn County and shall have the same immunity and exemption from tort liability and negligence as the County, and the members, officers, agents and employees of the Commission in the performance of the work of the Commission shall have the same immunity and exemption from tort liability and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of the County when in the performance of their public duties or work of the Commission. The Commission shall maintain liability insurance covering the Commission, its members and employees.
