Chapter 2-29 - SAFEGUARDING MINORS AND INCAPACITATED ADULTS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Note— (Ordinance of 12/17/09)

2-29-1 - Short Title and Purpose.
This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the "Probate Court Background Check Ordinance". The purpose of this Article shall be to carry out consent criminal histories in guardianship and conservatorship proceedings involving minors and incapacitated adults in the Glynn County Probate Court.
2-29-2 - Authority.
This Article is enacted pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 35-3-35(a)(1.2), the Georgia Umbrella Statute entitled "Dissemination of information to public agencies, political subdivisions, authorities, and instrumentalities."
2-29-3 - Fingerprinting Required.
An individual seeking to be appointed a guardian or conservator for a minor or incapacitated adult in a proceeding in the Glynn County Probate Court shall be fingerprinted as a condition of submitting an application to be appointed a guardian or conservator. By filing such application, the applicant consents to the Glynn County Probate Court obtaining their criminal history record information (CHRI) from the Georgia Crime Information Center (GCIC) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (F.B.I.).
2-29-4 - Access Authorized; Usage Regulations.
(a)
The Glynn County Probate Court is hereby authorized to access national criminal history record information pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 35-3-35(a)(1.2).
(b)
Access to criminal histories is limited to employees of the Glynn County Probate Court who are certified in security and integrity and whose certification is renewed every three years as required by the Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI).
(c)
Information obtained and handled for any purposes pursuant to this Article shall comply with all Georgia laws and the Federal Privacy Act.
(d)
No information given as part of the request for a criminal history and no record obtained pursuant to this Article may be entered on a data base.
(e)
No information given or obtained pursuant to this Article shall be subject to the Open Records Act.
2-29-5 - Administration; Fees; Procedures.
(a)
Where the Glynn County Probate Court determines that a national criminal history is necessary, two sets of fingerprints shall be given by the applicant. Fingerprints will be taken by the Glynn County Probate Court or may be taken by the Glynn County Sheriff's Department if the Probate Court is unable to do so.
(b)
The applicant will bear the cost of: (1) fingerprinting if carried out by the Sheriff; (2) the charge by the GBI and FBI for the CHRI history at its latest rate, paid to the Probate Court by certified or cashier's check, or money order; and (3) an administrative fee allowed by statute to be charged by the Glynn County Probate Court, the last of which shall be the maximum allowed by statute, currently $20.00, which fee shall include fingerprinting when carried out by the Probate Court.
(c)
Upon receipt of the fingerprints and the appropriate fees, the Glynn County Probate Court will transmit the said fingerprints and appropriate fees (unless a satisfactory billing arrangement has been entered into between the Glynn County Probate Court and the GCIC and/or FBI) to the GCIC. As provided by law, the GCIC will compare the subject's fingerprints against its criminal file and submit the fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a comparison with nation-wide records, unless submission is automatic pursuant to the use of live-scan. The results of the F.B.I. check will be returned based on its current procedure, presently being directly to the court if submissions are manual to GCIC, or electronically from both the GBI and FBI, where submitted electronically to the GCIC.
(d)
In compliance with Federal law 92-544, which provides for the rendering a "fitness determination," the Glynn County Probate Court will decide whether the record applicant has been convicted of, or is under pending indictment for: (a) a crime which bears upon his/her ability or fitness to serve in that capacity; (b) any felony or a misdemeanor which involved force or threat of force, controlled substances, or was a sex-related offense; or (c) enumerated disqualifiers.
(e)
A person who has consented to the Probate Court for a criminal history based on fingerprinting record may request and receive a copy of the criminal history record report from the Glynn County Probate Court at no additional charge. Should the person seek to amend or correct the record, he or she shall be responsible for contacting the GCIC as to Georgia records and/or the Federal Bureau of Investigation concerning records from other jurisdictions maintained in its file.
