Chapter 2-23 - NATURAL RESOURCES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Note— (Amended 03/06/97)

ARTICLE I. - HABITAT PROTECTION

2-23-1 - Intent.
It is the intent of this section that beachfront lighting not disturb or disorient nesting or hatching sea turtles.
2-23-2 - Criteria.
2-23-2.1 This criteria shall apply to all public and private artificial exterior lights within direct line of sight of the beach.
2-23-2.2 The enforcement period shall be during the sea turtles nesting and hatching season (May 1—October 31).
2-23-2.3 Criteria for affected lights.
1.
Such lights shall not directly illuminate areas of the beach seaward of the primary dune or seawall/revetment.
2.
The bulb, fluorescent tube, lamp or other source of light from such lights shall be shielded so that it is not directly visible from the beach.
3.
The use of safety and security lights shall be limited to the minimum number to achieve their functional roles and where practical shall be shielded from the beach. In those cases where safety and security lights cannot be shielded from the beach, then low pressure sodium lamps or other light sources which have been shown through experiments not to attract sea turtle hatchlings shall be used with the concurrence of the County Building Inspector and property owner.
(O-1994-03)
2-23-3 - Enforcement.
Property owners and lessees, if any, not in compliance with this section will be notified in writing by the County of the violation and the steps needed to achieve compliance. Property owners and lessees, if any, not in compliance 14 calendar days after receiving the written notice shall be subject to the enforcement provisions set out in Chapter 2-1-10 of this Code of Ordinances.
(O-1994-001)
2-23-4—2-23-9 - Reserved.
2-23-10 - Historic Sites and Artifacts.
It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any historic site located on property owned by Glynn County and it shall also be unlawful for any person to disturb or remove any artifact located on property owned by Glynn County UNLESS such person shall have obtained a written permit for such activity from the Glynn County Board of Commissioners. Any person guilty of violating this provision shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of up to one year and/or by fine not to exceed $1,000.00.
Definitions. As used in this ordinance, the following words shall have the following meanings:
(A)
Artifact shall be defined as any tangible object which is by it's nature removable and which has historic value relating to some human habitation, occupation, event or other activity which took place more than 20 years ago which is located on property owned by Glynn County, Georgia;
(B)
Disturb shall be defined to include dig, probe, break, crack, carve upon, write upon, otherwise mark upon, deface, dislodge, relocate, burn, mar or harm the surfaces, contents, features of any historic site or artifact or to enter or try to enter an historical site which is fenced in, or posted against trespassing or otherwise enclosed to prevent entry or access to an historic site;
(C)
Historic Site shall be defined as any site owned by Glynn County which is the location of a significant event, a prehistoric or historical habitation, occupation or activity, or a building or structure, whether standing, ruined or vanished where the location itself has historical or archeological value regardless of the value of any existing structure.
2-23-11 - Property Owned by Glynn County.
(A)
It shall be unlawful for any person, in any manner, to disrupt, disturb, cut, prune, deface, poison, or in any way damage or kill any vegetation growing on property owned by Glynn County or to alter, deface, or engage in any activity which may accelerate the natural rate of erosion of the topography of property owned by Glynn County unless such person shall have obtained a written permit for such activity from the Glynn County Board of Commissioners;
(B)
Any person found guilty of violating this provision shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of up to 60 days and/or by fine not to exceed $1,000.00. Each day following receipt of a citation or warning for violation of this ordinance in which a violation occur shall constitute a separate violation.
(C)
Definitions. as used in this ordinance, the following words shall have the following meanings:
(1)
Disturb shall be defined to include dig, probe, break, crack, carve upon, write upon, otherwise mark upon, deface, dislodge, relocate, burn, mar or harm the surfaces, contents, features of any property owned by Glynn County, Georgia;
(2)
Property Owned by Glynn County shall be defined as any real property owned in fee simple by Glynn County, Georgia.
(O-1997-09)
