ARTICLE III. - REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES

Sec. 2-61. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Expense means:
(1)
Expense for personal vehicle travel.
(2)
Expense for meals.
(3)
Expense for lodging.
(4)
Expense for common carriers such as taxis, airplane, MARTA.
(5)
Expense miscellaneous to include registration, parking, etc.
Individual means:
(1)
Employees of the county.
(2)
Members of the county board of commissioners.
(3)
Other elected officials:
a.
Tax commissioner;
b.
Clerk of superior court;
c.
Judge of probate court;
d.
Judge of magistrate court;
e.
Sheriff.
(4)
Any other person assigned to perform a specific task for the county.
(Mo. of 2-7-89, § I)
Sec. 2-62. - Policy statement.
It is the policy of the county to reimburse individuals who incur expense while performing official duties for the county, and other assigned activities.
(Mo. of 2-7-89)
Sec. 2-63. - Travel.
(a)
Eligible travelers include employees of Gordon County, members of the Gordon County Board of Commissioners, constitutional officers and other elected officials, certain independent contractors engaged by Gordon County to perform specific tasks, and appointed boards, agencies or task group members performing in the official capacity of their jobs.
(b)
Travel costs will not be paid or reimbursed unless a travel request form has been submitted and approved in advance. Travel request forms must be completed in [their] entirety before approval can be granted, and will be returned without consideration, until the form has been properly completed.
(c)
A designated copy of the form shall be attached and resubmitted with the reimbursement expense form by the traveler when claiming expense reimbursement.
(d)
When checks are needed in advance for specific items such as lodging or registration, a request for payment form (check request form) must be completed and approved for payment by the department head and submitted with the travel request form.
(e)
An accurate estimate of all travel related costs must be presented on the travel request form. Any other expense that may be incurred should be included in the other expense spaces provided on the travel request form with adequate explanation.
(f)
The reimbursement expense form must be submitted for payment within ninety (90) days from the date that the traveler returns. A reasonable explanation of substantial deviations between the cost estimates on the travel request form and the actual expenses on the reimbursement expense form must accompany the reimbursement expense form when claiming reimbursement. The burden of explanation and substantiation of all expenses is the responsibility of the traveler.
(g)
Travelers shall comply with established policies, rules, and procedures in order for travel costs to be eligible for payment or reimbursement. The traveler is considered to forfeit his right for reimbursement upon failure to adhere.
(Mo. of 2-7-89, § II; Ord. of 12-05-00)
Sec. 2-64. - Meals.
(a)
A maximum of thirty dollars ($30.00) per day, plus tips, per traveler will be allowed to cover the cost of meals for all overnight trips. Reimbursements for tips will not exceed fifteen (15) percent of the cost of the meal and will only be made for meals at restaurants that would ordinarily require tips and will not be made for meals at fast food restaurants. Receipts that detail expenses for meals and beverages must be attached and submitted with the expense reimbursement form. No payment or reimbursements for alcoholic beverages will be allowed. No reimbursements will be made without detailed receipts for each meal.
(b)
In cases in which the total actual meal expense for one (1) day is less than thirty dollars ($30.00), the remaining balance cannot be carried forward or applied to another day's meal expense that exceeds thirty dollars ($30.00). No cash advances will be made for meal expenses. Costs that exceed the thirty dollar ($30.00) per day threshold must be repaid to Gordon County by the employee, or shall be borne by the employee.
(c)
Reimbursements for costs of day trips not involving overnight travel will be permitted, and the day trip meal allowance shall not exceed twenty dollars ($20.00) per day, plus tips, per traveler. Travel must be outside the boundaries of Gordon County in the official capacity of employment in order for a meal to be eligible for reimbursement.
(d)
Trips must depart from Gordon County prior to 7:00 a.m. in order for breakfast to be eligible for reimbursement. Return trips must arrive back in Gordon County after 7:00 p.m. in order for the evening meal to be reimbursed.
(e)
Meal and other related expenses incurred for the purpose of conducting business for Gordon County while in the geographic area of Gordon County will only be paid or reimbursed on a case-by-case basis, after obtaining prior approval from the department head, finance director, and administrator. A detailed written request should be signed and submitted by the person making the request, and approval confirmed by obtaining the signature of the department head, finance director, and administrator on the request. The expense reimbursement form, along with the approved request and appropriate documentation including detailed receipts must be submitted for payment or reimbursement.
(Mo. of 2-7-89, § III; Ord. of 12-05-00)
Sec. 2-65. - Lodging.
(a)
Lodging shall be paid or reimbursed at the single-room rate, and in cases where the event is being held at a particular hotel or similar facility, the lodging paid or reimbursed shall not exceed the single-room rate at that facility. If an individual chooses accommodations elsewhere, the lodging shall be paid or reimbursed at a rate not to exceed the single-room rate at the hotel where the event is being held.
(b)
In cases where numerous hotels are approved by the organization holding the event, then lodging shall be paid or reimbursed at a rate not to exceed the highest single-room rate for the hotels on the approved list.
(c)
Family members are not prohibited from traveling with employees but in no case will expenses directly attributable to family members be paid or reimbursed.
(d)
No state sales tax or hotel/motel tax for travel within the State of Georgia will be paid or reimbursed. The traveler will be responsible for obtaining a sales tax exemption form and a hotel/motel tax exemption form from the finance department and must submit these forms to hotel management to make certain that no sales tax or hotel/motel tax is billed to Gordon County.
(f)
It is the traveler's responsibility to see that the transaction is processed properly. In cases where the traveler uses a personal credit card for lodging payment, the expense becomes ineligible for sales tax exemption and/or hotel/motel tax exemption, and the traveler will be held personally responsible for payment of applicable sales tax and/or hotel/motel tax.
(g)
Exceptions regarding the payment or reimbursement of state sales tax or hotel/motel tax for travel within the State of Georgia will only be made in rare cases in which following the above procedures are not reasonably practical and only upon approval of the finance director and administrator. All applicable taxes for lodging will be paid or reimbursed for travel outside the State of Georgia.
(h)
If lodging is reserved for an employee, and that employee is for some reason unable to use the lodging, a reasonable effort must be made by the employee to cancel the reservation so that Gordon County is not billed or penalized as a result. All expenses related to cancellation of lodging shall be borne by the traveler unless otherwise approved by the finance director and the administrator, and in no case may the room be paid or reimbursed by Gordon County for the exclusive use of someone other than the approved traveler.
(i)
Reasonable travel related tips such as for baggage handling at hotels, airports, etc.,and tips to cabbies, bellmen, housekeepers, etc. may be reimbursed and must be reported in detail on the expense reimbursement form in order to be eligible for reimbursement.
(Mo. of 2-7-89, § IV; Ord. of 12-05-00)
Sec. 2-66. - Transportation costs.
(a)
For travel to or from an event outside of Gordon County, a traveler may use a county vehicle and a county credit card for fuel costs or may be reimbursed by providing appropriate receipts for fuel purchases, or the traveler may use a personal vehicle and be reimbursed at the current IRS standard mileage rate in effect. Mileage must be documented using odometer readings from the appropriate vehicle, and must be reasonable given the context of the trip. Travelers must insure that the vehicle is filled at Gordon County's fuel farm before departing on any trip to minimize the purchase of fuel at retail rates.
(b)
In cases where the traveler is required or chooses to travel to destinations outside the State of Georgia, the maximum travel cost paid or reimbursed for travel to and from that destination shall not exceed an amount equivalent to one thousand (1,000) miles multiplied by the IRS standard mileage rate in effect. Regardless of mode of travel, travel costs will not be paid or reimbursed in excess of this threshold. Any amount exceeding the above threshold will be the personal responsibility of the traveler.
(c)
Travel costs for taxis, or use of other common carriers and parking may be paid or reimbursed when reasonable and necessary for travel involved in the general event area. Expenses must be reported in detail on the expense reimbursement form and appropriate documentation submitted when available. Use of rental cars may be paid or reimbursed after obtaining prior approval from the finance director and administrator.
(d)
In cases in which multiple employees travel to the same event, every effort should be made to share transportation when reasonably possible. When an employee chooses not to share transportation, the employee assumes responsibility for the cost of transportation and those costs will not be paid or reimbursed by Gordon County.
(Mo. of 2-7-89; Ord. of 12-05-00)
Sec. 2-67. - Telephones.
Telephone calls made by travelers for the purpose of conducting business for Gordon County may be paid or reimbursed. Expenses must be reported in detail on the expense reimbursement form and appropriate documentation submitted. In no case, will personal telephone calls be paid or reimbursed.
(Ord. of 12-05-00)
Secs. 2-68—2-100. - Reserved.
