ARTICLE XIV. - EFFECTIVE DATE

14-1. - Effective date.
These Regulations shall take effect and be in force from and after March 1, 1988. Subsequent amendments shall take effect and be in force from and after adoption unless otherwise stated in the resolution.
Therefore, be it Resolved, that the Grady County Commission, does hereby ordain, resolve, and enact the foregoing Land Development Regulations for Grady County pursuant to the provisions of the Georgia Constitution.
Adopted the 22 day of March, 1988, and revised the 14th day of April, 2009.
___________
County Clerk
_________________________________
Chairman, Board of Commissioners, Grady County, Georgia
APPENDICES
Illustration 1. Tangents Between Reverse Curves
Illustration 2. Continuation of Existing Streets
Illustration 3. Cul-de-sac
Illustration 4. Temporary dead-end-street
Illustration 5. Intersections
Illustration 6. Jogs
Illustration 7. Building Setback Lines
Illustration 8. Corner Lots
Typical Road Section
RULE III
ADDENDUM TO ON-SITE SEWAGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS AND SUBDIVISIONS—RULES AND REGULATIONS, DHR CHAPTER 290-5-26, AND ON-SITE WATER SUPPLIES RULES AND REGULATIONS
GRADY COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH
ADOPTED DECEMBER 14, 2006 SIGNED___________
Chairman, Grady County Board of Health
FOREWORD
It is well established that safe drinking water and efficient sewage disposal are essential to healthy community living. The public health sciences have demonstrated that water-borne diseases remain a continuing threat to the health of any human community, especially to those which are growing rapidly.
Experience has shown that individual wells and septic tank systems may endanger the public health and rarely provide permanent solutions to problems in sanitation. Because of this it is the responsibility of the Board of Health to establish minimum standards regulating on site water supplies and sewage disposal systems. Rule III, therefore, is designed explicitly to protect the health of the people of our communities and to promote sound environmental sanitation. Additionally, this rule includes factors of lot size and density of wells and septic tank systems as they relate to land development.
The Board believes that all population densities which approach that of the urban areas should be served by community or public water and sewage systems.
The addition of requirements for the issuance of operating permits and the maintenance of advanced treatment systems used for on-site sewage management systems is authorized in the current Department of Human Resources (DHR) Manual for On-site Sewage Management Systems. Credible research has shown that such systems must be properly maintained in order to prevent failure, which would create a public health hazard. Significant areas of land in the state of Georgia are comprised of soils poorly suited for conventional on-site sewage management systems. The Rules of DHR Chapter 290-5-26 allow the use of certain alternative systems designed for use on such soils. Therefore, development of areas considered unsuitable for conventional systems may be possible, while continuing to protect the public's health, safety and welfare. The Official Code of Georgia Annotated (O.C.G.A.) Title 31-3-5(b)(6) provides authority to the Grady County Board of Health for these additions.
In promulgating Rule III, it is the intent of the Grady County Board of Health that enforcement will be fair and reasonable and carried out in consonance with state laws, and in cooperation with other responsible state and local agencies.
Grady County Board of Health
___________
Chairman
ADDENDUM TO "ON-SITE SEWAGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS" AND SUBDIVISIONS—RULES AND REGULATIONS DHR CHAPTER 290-5-26 AND ON-SITE WATER SUPPLIES RULES AND REGULATIONS GRADY COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH.
PART I. TITLE.
These regulations shall be known and referred to as "Rules and Regulations pertaining to "On-Site Sewage Management Systems", and Subdivisions and On-Site Water Supplies for Grady County, Georgia including all incorporated and unincorporated areas."
PART II. LEGAL AUTHORITY
2.01.
It is incumbent on the Grady County Board of Health to enforce the provisions of the rules and regulations of the Department of Human Resources, Division of Public Health, Chapter 290-5-26 On-Site Sewage Management Systems, and the Official Code of Georgia Annotated (O.C.G.A.) Chapter 31, and to establish certain other requirements as are necessary for the orderly development of Grady County.
2.02.
The Grady County Board of Health, pursuant to the provisions of the O.C.G.A. Chapter 31, does hereby adopt and promulgate the following rules and regulations relating to On-Site Sewage Management Systems, Subdivisions, and Water Supplies.
2.03.
The provision of these rules and regulations are in addition to the provisions of DHR Chapter 290-5-26, On-Site Sewage Management Systems.
PART III. PURPOSE.
To establish minimum standards and requirements for on-site water supplies, on-site sewage management systems, and subdivisions: governing the design, construction and installation and inspection of such systems, and ordering issuance of permits.
PART IV. DEFINITIONS.
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this rule:
4.01.
ADVANCED TREATMENT SYSTEM shall mean a system approved by DHR as meeting Class I effluent requirements as established by the most current ANSI/NSF Standard 40 testing requirements.
4.02.
ANNULUS [means] the same as "annular space" and means any artificially created void existing between a well casing or liner pipe and a borehole well.
4.03.
APPROVAL OR APPROVED means acceptable or accepted by the Health Authority in accordance with applicable specifications stated herein or with additional criteria accepted by the Health Authority.
4.04.
AQUIFER means one or more, or parts of one or more, geologic formations capable of yielding water to a well.
4.05.
BACK SIPHONAGE means siphonage of water or other liquids from external sources into the water supply during times of pressure differential, whether due to improper connections or failure of devices in the system.
4.06.
BORED WELL means any well excavated by an earth auger in which the casing extends from the ground surface into the aquifer.
4.07.
CERTIFIED WELL CONTRACTOR means any person who:
1.
Engages in the construction, repair or alteration of individual on-site drinking water supply systems, either private or semi-public;
2.
Is licensed as a well contractor in accordance with the Water Well Standards Act of 1985, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-120 et seq.; and its successors.
4.08.
COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT means any land development other than residential development. It includes multiple family, retail, wholesale, commercial, office, industrial, church, and other such development.
4.09.
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY means any public water supply which serves at least fifteen (15) service connections used by yearround residents or which regularly serves at least twenty-five (25) yearround residents.
4.10.
CONSTRUCTION PERMIT shall mean a permit to begin construction and installation of an on-site sewage management system as defined in Chapter 290-5-26-.03(2).
4.11.
COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH means the County Board of Health established by Georgia Health Code (O.C.G.A. § 31-3-1) or its designee or authorized representatives.
4.12.
CROSS CONNECTION means any configuration whereby a potable water supply is connected with any water supply system, sewer, drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture or other device which contains (or may contain) contaminated water, sewage or other unsafe waste or liquid which may be capable of contaminating the potable water supply.
4.13.
DEPARTMENT or DHR means the Georgia Department of Human Resources or its successor agency.
4.14.
DNR means the Georgia Department of Natural Resources or its successor agency.
4.15.
DRILLED WELL means any well, whether excavated by rotary or percussion hydraulic drilling, having a casing that extends from the ground surface to an aquifer where adequate water capacity is obtained.
4.16.
FLOODPLAIN means a generally flat plain or depression susceptible to being flooded from any source, including small and intermittent water courses and coastal areas subject to intermittent tidal action.
4.17.
GROUNDWATER means water whose normal level is below ground level.
4.18.
HEALTH AUTHORITY means the local county health board or its representative.
4.19.
LENGTH means the longer dimension of a lot.
4.20.
MANUAL [means] the current manual as provided by DHR Public Health, Environmental Health Section regarding "On-Site Sewage Management Systems" as described in Chapter 290-5-26.
4.21
MAINTENANCE CONTRACTOR shall mean an individual or company meeting all requirements of DHR and registered with the Grady County Board of Health to service and perform maintenance on advanced treatment systems.
4.22.
NON-COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY means any public water supply which regularly serves at least fifteen (15) service connections or an average of twenty-five (25) individuals for at least sixty (60) days out of the year.
4.23.
OPERATING PERMIT shall mean a permit to operate an advanced treatment system used in conjunction with an on-site sewage management system that is renewed on an annual basis.
4.24.
PERMIT means written approval from the health authority.
4.25.
PERSON means any individual, partnership, corporation, or association and may be extended and be applied to bodies, politic and corporate.
4.26.
POTABLE WATER SUPPLY means any water supply that is satisfactory for drinking, culinary and domestic purposes.
4.27.
PREMISES means any place or building(s) where people live, work or congregate.
4.28.
PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY means any water supply consisting of a single well and serving no more than two (2) single residences on one lot.
4.29.
RESIDENCE means any building or structure intended for housing of a single family.
4.30.
SANITARY SEWER means a pipe or system of pipes, manholes, etc., constructed for the purpose of conveying sewage.
4.31.
SEMI-PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY means any water supply other than a private water supply which serves less than fifteen (15) service connections or twenty-five (25) people on a daily basis at any time during the year.
4.32.
SEWAGE means and includes human excreta, all water carried wastes, and liquid household waste from residences or commercial and industrial establishments including: sanitary human waste or excrement from water closets, lavatories, urinals, bathtubs, and showers, and liquid wastes from kitchens or laundries, or other water using appliances, equipment, or processes.
4.33.
SPECIAL EVENT means any activity attracting more than fifty (50) persons that is sponsored, organized, promoted, managed or financed by any person, group, partnership, organization, corporation, business or governmental entity where individuals congregate to participate in or observe an activity in outdoor or portable enclosed or semi-enclosed structures for more than two (2) consecutive hours.
4.34.
SURFACE WATER means water whose normal level is above ground level.
4.35.
WATER SUPPLY means the source from which the water is obtained and all structures, machinery, conduits and other appurtenances by means of which the water is collected, treated, stored, protected, or delivered to the customer/consumer for drinking, culinary and other domestic purposes and any well not regulated by applicable State or Federal agencies.
4.36.
WELL means an excavation or opening into the ground by which groundwater is sought or obtained.
4.37.
WIDTH means shorter dimension of a lot.
PART V. ON-SITE WATER SUPPLIES; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
5.01.
Owners of private homes and semi-public water supplies, and all rented or leased premises shall furnish at least one (1) convenient outlet with the capacity to supply an adequate quantity of potable water for drinking and domestic purposes. The number, type and location of the water system appurtenances shall be commensurate with occupancy and use levels and shall meet applicable codes. Special event sponsors must provide an adequate number of potable water supplies as set forth by the local plumbing code.
5.02.
No person may construct or install a semi-public water supply or a private water supply unless he or she is a licensed well contractor in accordance with the Water Well Standard Act of 1985, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-120 et seq., or its successors.
5.03.
Licensed contractors are subject to the requirements of the Water Well Standards Act of 1985, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-120 et seq., or its successors and this Rules Chapter. Violations of this Chapter shall be considered in view of the requirements of the Act, and contractors shall be held liable for any violations of either or both if applicable.
5.04.
A coliform test performed by an approved lab or the Health Department shall be required upon completion of construction and following disinfection of the water supply systems used for human consumption. The sample results must be satisfactory before final construction can be approved. Disinfection and sampling must be continued until satisfactory results are obtained.
5.05.
Upon request by the property owner, the Health Authority will sample the supply to determine bacteriological quality, provided well construction meets all regulatory requirements. Sampling of unapproved or non-complying wells shall be at the Health Authority' s discretion. A sample is considered satisfactory and meeting the minimum bacteriological quality limits of this regulation if one (1) or less coliform bacterium per one hundred (100) milliliter of sample is present.
5.06.
No person shall allow a public, private, or semi-public water supply to be connected directly or indirectly with any other water supply, sewer, drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or other device which contains or may contain contaminated water, liquid, gasses, sewage, or other waste of unknown or unsafe quality capable of contaminating the water system. No backflow, configuration bypass arrangement, jumper connections, removable section, swivel or changeover device, or other temporary, permanent or potential connection through which (or because of which) backflow siphonage could occur will be allowed.
5.07.
No outlet from a water supply shall be installed or maintained so that back siphonage is possible. Approved backflow preventer devices shall be required on all outlets to prevent contamination of the water supply and the aquifer. The procedures and devices for backflow and back siphonage prevention and cross connection control shall conform to those recommended by the American Water Works Association manual 14, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Cross Connection Manual.
PART VI. WATER SUPPLY—GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Water supply systems hereafter constructed will conform to the following requirements:
6.01.
Permit. No person shall construct or modify a water supply system without first securing a construction permit from the Grady County Board of Health. The County Board of Health shall approve or disapprove permit applications within twenty (20) days after receipt of a completed application.
6.02.
All wells shall be located as to obtain ground water that has the maximum protection that can be provided by the local geological formation, surface topography and land usage. Wells shall be constructed and grouted in accordance with requirements of Water Well Standards Act of 1985 and its successors.
6.03.
The earth surface shall be sloped from the well so as to divert surface water away from it and the surface shall be graded and maintained so as to prevent the accumulation and retention of surface water within a reasonable distance (at least ten feet) from the well in all directions.
6.04.
Protective covering over ground water supplies, including concrete slabs or other types of watertight coverings shall be located not less than two feet above the highest known water level of any nearby surface water.
6.05.
For a well on a hillside an adequate interception ditch or ditches shall be constructed on the uphill side of the well in such a manner as to divert the storm water runoff away from the well in all directions.
6.06.
Unless otherwise directed by the County Board of Health on the basis of hydrological and geological determinations all wells shall be located not less than 50 feet from any sealed septic tanks, sanitary sewers, and subsurface pits, not less than 100 feet from seepage pits, pit privies, subsurface sewage disposal field, barnyard, or other such possible polluting sources.
6.07.
Where casing is used in wells of all types the casing shall extend at least twelve inches above the finished grade at the well.
6.08.
A drilled well shall be cased with new standard wrought iron or steel well casing or other casing that is at least equally watertight and durable. The sections shall be joined together with threaded couplings or by welding so that the joints will be watertight.
6.09.
A well shall be further protected by the installation of a four-inch-thick concrete slab cover extending two feet from the well in all directions and sloped slightly to shed water.
6.10.
Every well shall be provided with an overlapping watertight cover or sanitary seal at the tip of the casing or pipe sleeve to prevent contaminated water or other deleterious material from entering the well.
6.11.
Every pump platform or pump room floor shall be watertight and elevated above the adjacent ground. Its surface shall be sloped to promote cleanliness by facilitating the rapid removal and diversion of surface and wastewater away from the well and platform.
6.12.
Upon completion of construction or modification of a well, the water supply to be utilized for human consumption, shall be disinfected with a chlorine solution of at least 50 parts per million of residual chlorine or the equivalent for a ten- to-twelve-hour contact period.
6.13.
Following disinfection the County Board of Health should be notified in order that a sample of water may be collected for bacteriological examination.
6.14.
Well log and specification of materials used must be submitted to the Health Department within 30 days of completion of the well.
6.15.
Whenever a well hole of any depth is excavated for, but not used as a water supply, it shall be the well driller' s responsibility to fill, plug, and seal the excavation in a manner acceptable to the Board of Health. It shall be the owner's responsibility to fill, plug and seal, in a like manner, any well that is to be permanently abandoned. If any well is to be temporarily removed from service, the well shall be sealed with a watertight cap or seal that cannot be removed by children or the general public.
PART VII. ON-SITE SEWAGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS—GENERAL PROVISIONS (REF. 290-5-26).
7.01.
DHR Chapter 290-5-26 and the Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems, defined therein are hereby adopted by reference in their entirety by the Grady County Board of Health, except as noted in [subsection] 7.02 below.
7.02.
Minimum Lot Size. Shall conform with the current Manual as of 4-6-1999 or subsequent changes which would require larger lot sizes, excepting that the exclusions in Section M - I.D. and its successors shall be employed when on-site conditions warrant.
7.03.
Minimum width of lots at the location of the absorption field shall be one hundred feet (100 feet) for lots with public water and one hundred fifty feet (150 feet) for lots not served by public water.
7.04.
On-Site Sewage Management Systems may be utilized for any building or facility not excluded by the Departments current Manual or Memorandum of Understanding between applicable/authorized governing agencies.
7.05.
A complete replacement area must be provided for On-Site Sewage Management System replacement, repair, addition or modification. Space reserved for repair, replacement, addition or modification of sewage systems may not be used for building, paving, parking or any other use that would render it unacceptable for its intended purpose.
7.06.
Permits must be obtained from the Health Department (Board of Health) in accord with provisions of the Rules and Regulations, Chapter 290-5-26, and On-Site Sewage Management Systems Manual prior to development.
7.07.
All On-Site Sewage Systems installed in Grady County must be inspected by and approved by the County Health Department Representative prior to applying final cover and/or use.
7.08.
It is the responsibility of the property owner to properly maintain the sewage system in accordance with the Rules and Regulations and recommended guidelines of the Manual.
7.09.
Repairs, replacements, additions or modifications to existing systems must be permitted and inspected.
7.10.
In conjunction with a repair permit being issued, the septic tank must have been pumped, inspected and found to be acceptable in size and conditions.
7.11.
Electrical power (service connection).
1.
May not be supplied temporarily to any site, well, building or other facility before the owner obtains a well construction permit or on-site sewage management systems permit from the Grady County Health Department.
2.
May not be furnished permanently to any site, well, building or other facility before the owner obtains approval and appropriate permits from the Grady County Health Department.
7.12.
Any parcel of land that is to be sold, rented or developed in any way that requires an on-site sewage management system must have prior written approval from the Grady County Board of Health.
PART VIII. SUBDIVISION (REF. 290-5-26).
8.01.
Lots of legal record as of the effective date of these rules and regulations, which were previously approved or exempted by the Health Authority, will be exempt from present lot size requirements provided they meet all other provisions of Chapter 290-5-26 and this addendum. Lots which were considered unapproved under a previous County Board of Health regulation or other applicable codes will continue to be unapproved.
8.02.
Approval to the planning commission will not be given for a subdivision where on-site sewage disposal is to be provided until the requirements according to section 290-5-26-.14 and 290-5-26.15 and this addendum have been met.
PART IX. OPERATIONAL PERMITS AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR ADVANCED TREATMENT SYSTEMS.
9.01.
OPERATING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
a.
An annual operating permit shall be required for advanced treatment systems and all components thereof, and no person may operate an advanced treatment system without an annual operating permit. A fee may be charged for the issuance of such permit, such fee to be established by the Grady County Board of Health as provided in O.C.G.A. Title 31-3-4(6).
b.
After meeting all requirements of the construction permit and after a satisfactory construction inspection, the owner/applicant shall submit within 30 days of such inspection, the following information to the County Board of Health:
i.
A copy of the applicable manufacturer's warranty and service agreement.
ii.
Proof of a recorded notification of the existence of and the maintenance requirements for an advanced treatment system, filed with the deed of the property in the county office of deed records.
iii.
Any other documentation as reasonably required by the County Board of Health to ensure the health, safety and welfare of the public.
c.
Upon receipt of the above information, the County Board of Health shall issue an operating permit.
d.
Renewal of the operating permit shall be required on the anniversary of the issuance of said permit or on a calendar year basis.
e.
The Grady County Board of Health shall annually renew the operating permit after the County Health Department establishes that the system is in full compliance with applicable rules.
f.
The system owner shall be responsible for compliance with all maintenance requirements as described in the Manual, which is incorporated herewith in pertinent part. Proof of compliance shall be provided to the County Health Department prior to the renewal date.
g.
Current owners of pre-existing advanced treatment systems shall be required to obtain an operating permit within twelve (12) months of the effective date of these rules.
9.02.
INSPECTION AND FEES.
a.
The Grady County Board of Health shall review the advanced treatment system operating permit at the time of renewal for compliance. A fee for this review may be charged to the owner of the advanced treatment system, such fee to be established by the Grady County Board of Health as provided in O.C.G.A. Title 31-3-4(6).
b.
Failure to maintain an active service agreement and submit annual service reports shall result in an inspection by the Grady County Health Department and the imposition of an inspection fee, such fee to be established by the Grady County Board of Health as provided in O.C.G.A. Title 31-3-4(6).
c.
Owners of an advanced treatment system who obtain and keep active a service agreement with an approved maintenance contractor and provide the County Health Department with an annual service inspection report shall not be subject to an annual inspection fee by the County Health Department.
d.
If review or inspection reveals that the advanced treatment system is improperly maintained, the operating permit may be revoked.
9.03.
MAINTENANCE CONTRACTOR REQUIREMENTS.
a.
Maintenance contractors shall register with the County Health Department in the county in which the business is based.
b.
The following criteria shall be required for registration.
i.
Payment of a registration fee established by the County Board of Health as provided by O.C.G.A. § 31-3-4(6).
ii.
Possession of a current NSF International On-site Wastewater Inspector Accreditation or equivalent as established by the Department, OR be certified by the manufacturer to perform service with written documentation provided to the County Health Department.
9.04.
MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
a.
An advanced treatment system shall be pumped in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations and/or after a visual inspection indicates that the mixed-liquor (aerator) solids are above 6,000 mg/l or the final settler is more than one-third (⅓) full of settled solids per the USEPA's On-site Wastewater Treatment Systems Manual.
b.
An advanced treatment system shall be operated in accordance with the manufacturer's requirements and all applicable state rules and regulations.
c.
The absorption field shall be maintained in a manner to prevent any prohibited discharge of effluent.
PART X. - ENFORCEMENT.
Enforcement of this rule shall be in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 31-5-1 et seq., and Rule No. 1 adopted and promulgated by the County Board of Health.
PART XI. - REPEAL.
Any rule, regulation, ordinance or guideline adjudged to be in conflict with Chapter 290-5-26, the Manual, and this addendum is hereby repealed.
PART XII. POWER TO ENTER.
It shall be the duty of the representative of the Board of Health to enforce these rules and regulations and/or others that may be adopted pertaining to public health. This representative, being either the Health Officer, Public Health Engineer or Sanitarian, County Environmental Health Specialist or District Environmentalist for the County, or authorized person accompanying a Board of a Health representative is hereby authorized to enter at any reasonable time any premises as may be necessary for its enforcement.
