ARTICLE XIII. - CATERER

Sec. 6-381. - Alcoholic beverages caterer permit.
(a)
Licenses may be obtained for the purpose of selling or dispensing alcoholic beverages by the drink on premises at which authorized catered functions are to be held.
(1)
Such licenses may be obtained only by those persons, firms, or corporations with a valid local beverage alcohol license and a valid state retail dealer license.
(2)
Such licenses shall only authorize the caterer to sell those alcoholic beverages for which he/she is licensed.
(3)
Such licenses shall only be valid for the specific event, date, time and location stated on the permit issued in accordance with this article.
(4)
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, carry on, or conduct the sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages off-premises and in connection with a catered event or function without first obtaining a permit as provided in this article.
(b)
Before a licensed alcoholic beverage caterer may sell or dispense alcoholic beverages at any authorized catered function, such caterer shall obtain a permit from the city administrator or designee at least ten business days prior to the event.
(1)
The application for a permit shall include the name of the alcoholic beverage caterer; the caterer's license number; the date, address, time and name of the event; and the quantity and type of alcoholic beverages to be transported from the licensee's primary location to the location of the authorized catered event.
(2)
No permit fee shall be charged for a caterer's license if the applicant has a current, valid alcohol license issued by the city.
(3)
For caterers licensed by jurisdictions other than the city, a permit fee of $50.00 per event shall be charged.
(4)
The permit shall be good only for the specific event at the specific address, date and times set forth in the application.
(5)
As a condition of the permit, alcoholic beverage caterers licensed by jurisdictions other than the city shall be provided a copy of the city's alcoholic beverages ordinances and acknowledge the applicability of such ordinances to their operations.
(6)
The permit and a copy of the state license shall be kept in the vehicle used to transport alcoholic beverages to the event at all times during which the permit is in effect.
(7)
Caterers licensed by the city or any other jurisdiction shall maintain records of alcoholic beverages transported for each event as may be required by state law.
(c)
The hours and days of sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages under this section shall be the same as section 6-73 of this chapter.
(d)
Excise taxes are imposed upon the sale of alcoholic beverages in the amounts set forth in article VII and section 6-360 of this chapter.
(e)
No licensed alcoholic beverage caterer shall employ any person under 21 years of age to dispense, serve, sell or handle alcoholic beverages at authorized catered functions.
(f)
Except as set forth above in the section, an alcohol beverages caterer permit holder must comply with all other provisions set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. of 3-16-2015(1))
Secs. 6-382—6-400. - Reserved.
