ARTICLE II. - BEER AND WINE CONSUMPTION LICENSING AND REGULATIONS

Sec. 6-71. - Type of retail establishments.
(a)
No beer or wine shall be sold for consumption on the premises where sold except:
(1)
In eating establishments having a full service kitchen (a full service kitchen will consist of a three compartment sink, a stove or grill permanently installed, a refrigerator, all of which must be approved by the health and fire departments). Additionally, any such eating establishment must be prepared to serve food every hour it is open and must derive a minimum of 60 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or food;
(2)
In indoor commercial recreation establishments;
(3)
In an indoor publicly owned civil and cultural center capable of serving prepared food, with a full service kitchen (a full service kitchen will consist of a three compartment sink, a stove or grill permanently installed, a refrigerator, all of which must be approved by the health and fire departments), prepared to serve food every hour they are open and deriving at least 70 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or food and recreation activities; or
(4)
At a publicly owned a golf course.
(b)
These eating establishments must be located in zoning districts which permit restaurants as conforming uses or where these eating establishments are incidental to a hotel or motel.
(Ord. of 11-4-1996(3), § 7-2050; Ord. of 12-18-2006)
Sec. 6-72. - License fee and amount to defray investigative and administrative costs to accompany application.
Each application for a license under this article shall be accompanied by a certified check for the full amount of the license fee, together with a separate check or cash in the amount of $500.00 to defray investigative and administrative costs. If the application is denied and the license refused, or if the applicant withdraws his application prior to its being issued, the license fee shall be refunded; but the $500.00 cost paid for investigation shall be retained. However, any person applying for more than one license shall pay only one fee to defray investigative and administrative expenses, which fee shall be the largest of the investigative and administrative fees authorized under this Code. Any applicant for a license under this article who has in existence at the time of making the new application an existing license under this article shall pay no investigative and administrative costs.
(Ord. of 11-4-1996(3), § 7-2051)
Sec. 6-73. - Hours and days of sale.
(a)
Beer and/or wine shall not be sold for consumption on the premises except between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight Monday through Saturday.
(1)
As provided in section 516 of the Grayson Zoning Ordinance of 2005, no business shall be open between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5 a.m. In order to serve beer and/or wine for consumption on the premises between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 1:55 a.m. Tuesday through Sunday, the licensee shall meet the requirements of section 516 of the Grayson Zoning Ordinance of 2005 and shall obtain a special use permit in accordance with section 1807 of the Grayson Zoning Ordinance of 2005.
(b)
No beer and/or wine shall be sold for consumption at any time in violation of any local ordinance or regulation or of any special order of the governing authority.
(c)
The sale of beer and/or wine for consumption on the premises is permitted on Sundays from 11:00 a.m. until 12:00 midnight in any licensed establishment which derives a minimum of 60 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or food and in any licensed establishment which derives at least as much of its total annual gross income from the rental of rooms for overnight lodging.
(d)
Beer and/or wine may be sold for consumption on the premises from 12:00 midnight to 1:55 a.m. on any Monday which is New Year's Day, January 1, of any year if granted a special use permit as required by subsection (a) above.
(Ord. of 11-06-2018, § 1)
Editor's note— Ord. of November 6, 2018, repealed the former § 6-73, and enacted a new § 6-73 as set out herein. The former § 6-73 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. of Ord. of 1-15-2007.
Sec. 6-74. - Applicability of other articles of this chapter.
All sections included in articles I, V, and IX of this chapter shall apply to the licenses and authorizations granted by this article. Any inconsistencies between the sections included in this article and articles I, V, and IX of this chapter shall be resolved by the language of this article taking precedence over the language of articles I, V, and IX.
(Ord. of 11-21-2011)
Sec. 6-75. - Sale of growlers.
(a)
No person shall be permitted to own or operate a growler shop without first obtaining a growler shop license from the city clerk pursuant to the same procedures as are set forth in this article, and each growler shop license holder shall comply with all other applicable state and local requirements. The sale of package malt beverages in growlers shall be allowed in an establishment licensed for the sale of growlers located in the C-2, C-3 and PUD districts. The sale of package malt beverages in growlers may not be sold at any establishment engaged in the sale of distilled spirits.
(b)
The filling of growlers by means of a tapped keg shall not constitute the breaking of a package as contemplated by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-26 or other provisions of this article, provided that after the growler is filled the growler must be sealed on the licensed premises with a tamper-proof plastic cap and may not thereafter be opened or consumed on the premises. Licensees or employees of the licensed establishment may fill or refill growlers with draft beer at a licensed location for retail package sales as provided herein in a growler not smaller than 12 ounces in volume and not to exceed 68 ounces in volume.
(c)
Establishments licensed to sell malt beverages in growlers under this section shall be authorized to sell or offer without charge samples of draft beer to patrons over the age of 21 years. Samples shall not exceed 16 ounces in volume within a 24-hour period.
(d)
Nothing in this section shall prohibit a growler shop from serving food or other non-alcoholic products, provided that it meets all of the requirements provided in this Code and is properly permitted by the city.
(Ord. of 6-17-2019; Ord. of 9-21-2020(3))
Secs. 6-76—6-100. - Reserved.
