ARTICLE III. - PRIVATE CLUB LICENSING AND REGULATIONS

Sec. 6-101. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fixed salary means the amount of compensation paid any member, officer, agent or employee of a bona fide private club as may be fixed for him by club members at a prior annual meeting or by the governing body out of the general revenue of the club and shall not include a commission on any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages. For the purpose of this definition, tips or gratuities which are added to the bills under club regulations shall not be considered as profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
Private club means any nonprofit association organized under the laws of this state which:
(1)
Has been in existence at least one year prior to the filing of its application for a license to be issued pursuant to this article;
(2)
Has at least 30 regular dues paying members;
(3)
Owns, hires or leases a building or space within a building for the reasonable use of its members with:
a.
Suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment; and
b.
A sufficient number of employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guests; and
c.
Has no member, officer, agent or employee directly or indirectly receiving in the form of salary or other compensation any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages beyond a fixed salary.
Sports club means an association or corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state, organized and operated primarily to provide a location for the patrons thereof to engage in sporting events. To qualify for an alcoholic beverage consumption dealer's license, a sports club must have been actively in operation within the city at least two years prior to an application for a license hereunder. Provided, however the two-year operational requirement shall not apply to golf club associations or golf club corporations where the selling or the serving of alcoholic beverages is to take place on the golf course premises. A sports club organized or operated primarily for the serving of alcoholic beverages shall not qualify for licensing under this article, and accordingly shall not be permitted to serve alcoholic beverages at any time. Unless otherwise indicated, a sports club licensee shall comply with all other requirements imposed upon retail consumption dealers.
(Ord. of 11-4-1996(3), § 7-2053)
Sec. 6-102. - Regulation of sale of alcoholic beverages.
Private clubs may sell and dispense alcoholic beverages upon compliance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the city governing the sale of such beverages and upon payment of such license fees and taxes as may be required by the existing ordinances, rules and regulations of the city.
(Ord. of 11-4-1996(3), § 7-2054)
Sec. 6-103. - Certain organizations exempt from food establishment.
Veterans organizations, fraternal organizations and other nonprofit organizations currently having tax exempt status under either the United States Internal Revenue Code or the Georgia Income Tax Law shall not be required to operate a food establishment serving prepared food. However, any such organization selling or dispensing alcoholic beverages shall be subject to all ordinance regulations dealing with general licensing and consumption on the premises establishments.
(Ord. of 11-4-1996(3), § 7-2055)
Sec. 6-104. - Investigative and administrative costs.
Each application for a license under this article shall be accompanied by a certified check for the full amount of the license fee, together with a separate check or cash in the amount of $500.00 for beer and/or wine to defray investigative and administrative costs. If the application is denied and the license refused, or if the applicant is denied a state license, the deposit representing the license fee shall be refunded; but the $500.00 cost paid for investigation and administrative cost shall be retained. However, any person applying for more than one license shall pay only one fee to defray investigative and administrative expenses, which fee shall be the largest of the investigative and administrative fees authorized under this chapter. Any applicant for a license under this article who has in existence at the time of making the new application an existing license under this article shall pay no investigative and administrative costs.
(Ord. of 11-4-1996(3), § 7-2056)
Sec. 6-105. - Hours and days of sale.
(a)
Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold for consumption on the premises except between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight Monday through Saturday.
(1)
As provided in section 516 of the Grayson Zoning Ordinance of 2005, no business shall be open between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5 a.m. In order to serve alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 1:55 a.m. Tuesday through Sunday, the licensee shall meet the requirements of section 516 of the Grayson Zoning Ordinance of 2005 and shall obtain a special use permit in accordance with section 1807 of the Grayson Zoning Ordinance of 2005.
(b)
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold for consumption at any time in violation of any local ordinance or regulation or of any special order of the governing authority.
(c)
The sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises is permitted on Sundays from 11:00 a.m. until 12:00 midnight in any licensed establishment which derives a minimum of 60 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or food and in any licensed establishment which derives at least as much of its total annual gross income from the rental of rooms for overnight lodging.
(d)
Alcoholic beverages may be sold for consumption on the premises from 12:00 midnight to 1:55 a.m. on any Monday which is New Year's Day, January 1, of any year if granted a special use permit as required by subsection (a) above.
(Ord. of 11-06-2018, § 2)
Editor's note— Ord. of November 6, 2018, repealed the former § 6-105, and enacted a new § 6-105 as set out herein. The former § 6-105 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. of 1-15-2007.
Sec. 6-106. - Applicability of other articles of this chapter.
All sections included in articles I, V, and IX of this chapter shall apply to the licenses and authorizations granted by this article. Any inconsistencies between the sections included in this article and articles I, V, and IX of this chapter shall be resolved by the language of this article taking precedence over the language of articles I, V, and IX.
(Ord. of 11-21-2011)
Secs. 6-107—6-130. - Reserved.
