Chapter 34 - HEALTH AND SANITATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 34-1. - County smoke free air regulation.
(a)
Purpose. The county is authorized to adopt ordinances or regulations to govern and protect the health, safety and welfare of its citizens; and numerous studies over the years have documented the detrimental effects of subjecting nonsmokers to second hand smoke; and nonsmokers should not be forced to inhale the secondhand smoke of others on property owned, leased or operated by the county due to documented ill effects, such as asthma attacks, heart attacks, strokes in adults and sudden infant death syndrome, middle ear infections, bronchitis, asthma, pneumonia and low birth weight in children; and normal ventilation cannot eliminate the health risks; and it should be the goal of every elected official and department head to make Habersham County, Georgia, a safe, healthy, and attractive place to work and play; and the purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety and welfare of county employees and members of the public by providing a smoke free environment.
(b)
Definitions.
County building means any enclosed, indoor area which is owned, leased, or controlled by the county, including, but not limited to, rooms, offices, work areas, restrooms, and sports and recreational facilities.
County vehicle means any motor vehicle owned, leased or controlled by Habersham County, Georgia.
County sports and recreational facilities means buildings or structures such as, but not limited to pavilions, stadiums, gymnasiums, health spas, and swimming pools, leased, owned or controlled by the county where members of the general public assemble.
Outdoor public facility means any outdoor recreation area owned, leased or operated by the county, including, but not limited to ballfields, parks, amphitheaters, tennis centers, tennis courts and swimming pools.
Smoking is defined as holding, lighting, inhaling, burning, carrying, emitting or exhaling of a lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette, weed or plant of any kind.
(c)
Application to county facilities and property.
(1)
Smoking is prohibited in all buildings owned or building spaces leased or operated by Habersham County, Georgia Government, except in Habersham County detention facilities where the smoking policy is determined by the Sheriff of Habersham County, Georgia.
(2)
Smoking is prohibited in all county vehicles at all times.
(3)
Smoking shall be prohibited within 25 feet of facility/building entrances and exits.
(4)
Smoking is prohibited at the entry steps and landing areas for a reasonable distance outside of an enclosed area where smoking is prohibited so as to ensure that tobacco does not enter the area through entrances, windows, ventilation systems or other means.
(5)
County sports and recreational facilities and outdoor public facilities: Smoking shall be prohibited within all county sports and recreational facilities and outdoor public facilities, with the exception of a designated smoking area within the fairgrounds.
(d)
Advertising and posting of signs. Signs shall be posted at each public entrance to county buildings and outdoor county sports and recreational facilities providing notice to employees and the public at large that smoking is prohibited. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, smoking is prohibited as set forth herein whether or not posted.
(e)
Enforcement, violations and penalties.
(1)
This section shall be enforced by authorized designees of the county in the Magistrate Court of Habersham County.
(2)
A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited shall be guilty of such infraction and punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and/or incarceration not to exceed 60 days.
(3)
Each activity involving smoking shall be considered a separate offense and multiple smoking activities occurring at the same time or setting shall be considered separate offenses.
(Ord. of 3-21-2005(2), §§ 1—4; Ord. of 10-17-2011, §§ 2, 3, 5 )
State Law reference— Smoking in public places, O.C.G.A. §§ 16-12-2, 31-12A-1 et seq.
Secs. 34-2—34-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RULES AND REGULATIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Apr. 20, 2009, supplied provisions to be added to this Code as Ch. 35, §§ 35-1—35-14. In order to preserve the style of this Code, at the discretion of the editor, these provisions have been redesignated as Ch. 34, Art. II, §§ 34-21—34-33 to read as set out herein.

Sec. 34-21. - State promulgated rules and regulations.
The following rules and regulations of the Georgia Department of Public Health, including all subsequent amendments, revisions or modifications thereto, and which are expressly incorporated herein, are hereby adopted and approved for enforcement as set forth herein.
(1)
Control of Rabies, Rules and Regulations § 511-4-2.
(2)
Food Service, Rules and Regulations § 511-6-1.
(3)
Tourist Accommodations, Rules and Regulations § 511-6-2.
(4)
On-Site Sewage Management Systems, Rules and Regulations. § 511-3-1.
(5)
Reserved.
(6)
Drinking Water Supply, Rules and Regulations § 511-3-3.
(7)
Solid Waste, Rules and Regulations § 511-3-4.
(8)
Public Swimming Pools, Spas and Recreational Water Parks, Rules and Regulations § 511-3-5.
(9)
Special On-Site Sewage Management Systems, Rules and Regulations § 511-3-6.
(10)
The Georgia Smoke-free Air Act, Rules and Regulations § 511-3-7.
Copies of those DHR rules and regulations are on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners, where the same are available for inspection and copying by the public during regular county operating hours.
(Ord. of 4-18-2016 )
Sec. 34-22. - Local board of health enactments.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 31-3-1 et seq., in addition to the above-referenced rules and regulations of the Georgia DHR, the following rules and regulations have been enacted by the Habersham County Board of Health and are hereby adopted by the Habersham County Board of Commissioners in accordance with State law, and are further hereby adopted and approved for enforcement as set forth herein:
(1)
Rules and regulations concerning body art, enacted by resolution dated February 9, 2009, which are hereby set forth verbatim herein and adopted by the board of commissioners upon lawful adoption of this article.
(2)
Rules and regulations concerning rabies control, enacted by resolution dated February 9, 2009, which are hereby set forth verbatim herein and adopted by the board of commissioners upon lawful adoption of this article.
Copies of those rules and regulations enacted by the Habersham County Board of Health and having been adopted by ordinance of the board of commissioners are on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners, where the same are available for inspection and by the public during regular county operating hours.
( Ord. of 4-20-2009, § 1(Exh. A, § 35-3) )
Sec. 34-23. - Minimum lot size.
In addition, the rules and regulations concerning minimum lot sizes for the orderly and safe development of property utilizing on-site sewage management systems, having been enacted by resolution dated February 9, 2009, by the Habersham County Board of Health are hereby adopted and made a part of this article as though fully set out at length herein. The Habersham County Board of Commissioners may, however, require larger minimum lot sizes for utilization of on-site sewage management systems in zoning or land use districts providing for septic service, and in the event there is a conflict between the minimum lot size(s) established by the Habersham County Board of Health and that established by the Habersham County Board of Commissioners, the larger lot size(s) established by the board of commissioners shall control and take precedence.
( Ord. of 4-20-2009, § 1(Exh. A, § 35-4) )
Sec. 34-24. - Fee schedule.
A fee schedule for the implementation and confirmation of compliance with the above referenced state promulgated rules and regulations and local board of health enactments, including permit and inspection fees, has been established by the Habersham County Board of Health, and is hereby approved and adopted by the Habersham County Board of Commissioners. A copy of this fee schedule, including all subsequent amendments, revisions or modifications thereto, is on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners and is available for inspection and copying by the public during regular county operating hours.
( Ord. of 4-20-2009, § 1(Exh. A, § 35-5) )
Sec. 34-25. - Enforcement.
The enforcement and prosecution of this article shall be within the jurisdiction of Habersham County and the Habersham County Board of Health, and their authorized designee(s) or agent(s), and all law enforcement personnel of Habersham County.
( Ord. of 4-20-2009, § 1(Exh. A, § 35-6) )
Sec. 34-26. - Failure to comply.
It shall be unlawful for any natural person or persons or any legal entity including, and not limited to, a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, firm or trust, to violate any of the above-identified rules and regulations, and/or to fail or refuse to pay any fee established by the Habersham County Board of Health, and approved and adopted by the Habersham County Board of Commissioners, for the implementation and confirmation of compliance with the above-identified rules and regulations, including all permit and inspection fees.
( Ord. of 4-20-2009, § 1(Exh. A, § 35-7) )
Sec. 34-27. - Penalties.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20, any person or persons or any legal entity including, and not limited to, a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, firm or trust, violating any provision of the rules and regulations identified and adopted in this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 60 days, or both.
( Ord. of 4-20-2009, § 1(Exh. A, § 35-8) )
Sec. 34-28. - Continuing offenses.
Each day during which a violation of any provision of the rules and regulations identified and adopted in this article shall constitute, and shall be considered, a separate offense.
( Ord. of 4-20-2009, § 1(Exh. A, § 35-9) )
Sec. 34-29. - Magistrate court jurisdiction.
The Habersham County Magistrate Court shall have original jurisdiction upon any offense charged pursuant to this article.
( Ord. of 4-20-2009, § 1(Exh. A, § 35-10) )
Sec. 34-30. - Other remedies available.
In addition to the rights and remedies set forth herein, or as otherwise authorized by law, Habersham County and the Habersham County Board of Health retain and reserve the right to seek equitable relief, injunction, abatement, or any appropriate action or proceeding to protect the public health, safety and welfare. Failure or refusal to pay any fee approved for the implementation and confirmation of compliance with the above-identified rules and regulations, including all permit and inspection fees, may result in suspension and/or revocation of any permit issued by the Habersham County Board of Health.
( Ord. of 4-20-2009, § 1(Exh. A, § 35-11) )
Sec. 34-31. - Procedural matters.
Violations of all DHR promulgated rules and regulations and all local board of health enactments identified herein may be prosecuted by an accusation or citation with or without a prosecuting attorney in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63, and any successor statute; and the Habersham County Board of Commissioners authorizes the county attorney or his designee to prosecute violations of this article, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-10-66, and any successor statute. In addition, the solicitor of the county and his or her assistants shall also have the authority to prosecute all citations or accusations issued for violation of the rules and regulations identified and adopted in this article.
( Ord. of 4-20-2009, § 1(Exh. A, § 35-12) )
Sec. 34-32. - Remedies not cumulative.
This article, and the enforcement and prosecution of this article by Habersham County and the Habersham County Board of Health, and their authorized agent(s) or designee(s), does not in any way effect, estop, prescribe, regulate, limit, or in any way control or prohibit the Georgia DHR, and its agent(s) or designee(s), from initiating or undertaking any action or proceeding to enforce compliance with its rules and regulations.
( Ord. of 4-20-2009, § 1(Exh. A, § 35-13) )
