Chapter 38 - LAW ENFORCEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act, O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq.; training requirements for police chiefs, O.C.G.A. § 35-8-20; county police, O.C.G.A. § 36-8-1 et seq.

Sec. 38-1. - Adoption of jail construction and staffing act.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-21-92, the board of commissioners adopts this section placing in effect the provisions of the state Jail Construction and Staffing Act (O.C.G.A. § 15-21-90 et seq.).
(b)
There shall be created a special account, to be known as the county jail fund, into which all proceeds collected under the terms of this section are to be deposited, and from which these sums are to be paid for the construction, operating and staffing of the county jail and correctional institute.
(Res. of 12-18-1989)
State Law reference— Jail Construction and Staffing Act, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-90 et seq.
Sec. 38-2. - Payment of witness fees to law enforcement officers.
It shall be the policy of the board of commissioners to pay off-duty police officers and sheriff's deputies who are required by writ of subpoena to attend any superior court, or other courts having jurisdiction to enforce the penal laws of this state as provided by O.C.G.A. § 40-13-21, juvenile court, grand jury, or hearing or inquest held or called by a coroner, or magistrate court involving any criminal matter, as a witness on behalf of the state during any hours except the regular duty hours to which the officer is assigned. Such officers and deputies shall be paid for such attendance at a rate fixed by the court, but at a rate not less than the per diem paid grand jurors in the preceding term of the superior court of the county or $20.00 per diem, whichever is greater. The claim for the witness fees shall be endorsed on the subpoena, showing the dates of attendance and stating that attendance was required during hours other than the regular duty hours to which the claimant was assigned. The claimant shall verify this statement. The dates of attendance shall be certified by the judge or the prosecuting attorney of the court attended. The county sheriff, city police chief or city manager shall certify that the claimant has been paid no additional compensation and has not been given any time off on account of such service. The amount due shall be paid by the board of commissioners, which is authorized to dispense public funds for the operation of the court. However, no such officer may claim or receive more than one witness fee per day for attendance in any court or before the grand jury, regardless of the number of subpoenas which the officer may have received requiring him to appear in such court or before the grand jury on any one day.
(Ord. of 10-19-1987)
