Chapter 58 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— County ad valorem taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-220 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 58-1—58-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - GROSS PREMIUMS TAX ON INSURANCE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— County and municipal corporation tax on insurance companies, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1 et seq.

Sec. 58-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Insurer means a company authorized to transact business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5.
(Ord. of 11-21-2005(2), § 1(50-131))
Sec. 58-20. - License fee for life insurers insuring certain risks at additional business location.
For each separate business location, not otherwise subject to a license fee under this article, that is operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and in connection with such loans or sales, offers, solicits or takes application for insurance through a licensed agent of a life insurer for life insurance, such insurer shall pay an additional annual license fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk.
(Ord. of 11-21-2005(2), § 1(50-133))
Sec. 58-21. - Life insurance agency license fees; independent life insurance agencies, brokers not otherwise licensed.
There is levied an annual license fee upon independent agencies and brokers for each separate business location from which a life insurance business is conducted and which is not subject to the company license fee imposed by this article as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk.
(Ord. of 11-21-2005(2), § 1(50-134))
Sec. 58-22. - Gross premiums tax—Life insurers.
There is levied an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer writing life, accident and sickness insurance within the county in an amount equal to one percent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1. Gross direct premiums, as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by this article.
(Ord. of 11-21-2005(2), § 1(50-135))
Sec. 58-23. - Same—All other insurers.
There is levied an annual tax upon each insurer, other than an insurer transacting business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(1), doing business within the county in an amount equal to 2 1/2 percent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2. Gross direct premiums, as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2(a).
(Ord. of 11-21-2005(2), § 1(50-136))
Sec. 58-24. - Due date for license fees.
License fees imposed in this article shall be due and payable on January 1 of each year.
(Ord. of 11-21-2005(2), § 1(50-137))
Sec. 58-25. - License fees, all insurers doing business in the county.
There is levied an annual license fee upon each insurer doing business within the county as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk. For each separate business location in excess of one operating on behalf of such insurers within the county, there is levied a license fee as provided in such schedule of fees and charges.
(Ord. of 11-21-2005(2), § 1(50-138))
Secs. 58-26—58-53. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - MOTEL EXCISE TAX[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— County and municipal excise taxes on rooms, lodgings and accommodations, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.

Sec. 58-54. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases shall, for the purposes of this article and except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning, be defined as follows:
County means the County of Habersham and, variously, the unincorporated territory of said county, wherein the board of commissioners is empowered to impose this tax by law.
County clerk means the duly appointed county clerk of the county or his designee.
County manager means the duly appointed county manager of the county or his or her designee.
Due date means the 20th day after the close of the monthly period for which the tax is to be computed.
Estimated tax liability means the lodging provider's prospective tax liability based upon the average monthly tax remittance in the prior fiscal year, as adjusted for change in tax rate or substantial change in circumstances due to damage to the hotel.
Folio means the primary documentation produced by a hotel that demonstrates interaction between the lodging provider and the occupant, and which, at a minimum, reflects the name and address given by the occupant, the date of occupancy, the amount of rent charged for each date together with the amounts of applicable excise tax, and the method of payment.
Guestroom means a room occupied, or intended, arranged, or designed for transient occupancy, by one or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use.
Hotel means any structure or any portion of a structure, including any lodging house, rooming house, dormitory, Turkish bath, bachelor hotel, studio hotel, motel, motor hotel, auto court, truck stop, tourist cabin, lodge, inn, time-share or other condominium, apartment community, public club, private club, or any short-term vacation rental, containing guestrooms and which is occupied, or is intended or designed for occupancy, by paying guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor, or otherwise. It does not include any hospital, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, jail, prison, or other buildings in which human beings are housed and detained under legal restraint.
Lodging provider means any person operating a hotel in the county including, but not limited to, the owner or proprietor of such premises, lessee, sublessee, lender in possession, licensee or any other person operating such hotel; and who is subject to the taxation imposed for furnishing for value to the public any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations.
Monthly period means the calendar months of any year.
Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of any guestroom or apartment in a hotel or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Occupant means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right to use or possess any guestroom in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use or other agreement, or otherwise.
Permanent resident means any occupant who, as of a given date, has or shall have occupied or has or shall have the right of occupancy of any guestroom in a hotel for not less than ten continuous days next preceding such date.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, joint adventure, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, cooperative, estate, trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, the plural as well as the singular number; excepting the United States, the state and any instrumentality of either thereof upon which the county is without power to impose the tax.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the lodging provider to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Short-term vacation rental means part or all of any residential legal lot of record made available to transient guests for overnight occupancy.
Tax means the tax on occupants imposed by this article, as provided for by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.
(Ord. of 3-6-2006, § 1; Ord. of 12-17-2018 , §§ 1, 2; Ord. of 3-16-2020 , §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 58-55. - Tax rate.
There shall be paid for every occupancy of a guestroom in a hotel in the county a tax at the rate of five percent of the amount of rent unless an exemption is provided under section 58-57.
(Ord. of 3-6-2006, § 2)
Sec. 58-56. - Collection of tax by lodging provider.
Every lodging provider renting guestrooms in the county shall collect a tax of five percent on the amount of rent from the occupant unless an exemption is provided under section 58-57. The lodging provider shall provide a receipt to each occupant, which receipt shall reflect both the amount of rent and the amounts of this and other taxes applicable. This tax shall be due from the occupant, and shall be collected by the lodging provider at the same time that the rent is collected. The lodging provider shall be liable for any amount of tax that he fails to collect appropriately; and must remit to the county any amount of tax collected in excess of that which should have been collected.
(Ord. of 3-6-2006, § 3)
Sec. 58-57. - Exemptions.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51, the tax authorized by this article shall not apply to:
(a)
Charges made for any rooms, lodgings or accommodations provided to any persons who certify that they are staying in such room, lodging or accommodation as a result of the destruction of their home or residence by fire or other casualty;
(b)
The use of meeting rooms and other such facilities or any rooms, lodgings or accommodations provided without charge;
(c)
Any rooms, lodgings or accommodations furnished for a period of one or more days for use by Georgia state or local governmental officials or employees when traveling on official business. Notwithstanding the availability of any other means of identifying the person as a state or local government official or employee, whenever a person pays for any rooms, lodgings or accommodations with a state or local government credit or debit card, such rooms, lodgings or accommodations shall be deemed to have been furnished for use by a Georgia state or local government official or employee traveling on official business for purposes of the exemption provided by this paragraph. For purpose of the exemption provided under this paragraph, a local government official or employee shall include officials or employees of counties, municipalities, consolidated governments, or county or independent school districts; or
(d)
Charges made for continuous use of any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations after the first 30 days of continuous occupancy.
(Ord. of 3-6-2006, § 4; Ord. of 12-17-2018 , § 3)
Sec. 58-58. - Registration of lodging provider; form and contents; execution; certificate of authority.
(a)
Any person issued a business license pursuant to article II of chapter 18 of this code to engage in business as a lodging provider in the county shall be exempt from the registration requirements of this section. The county manager shall issue without charge a certificate of authority to each such lodging provider to collect the tax from the occupant.
(b)
Every person, except for those exempted by subsection (a) of this section, engaging or about to engage in business as a lodging provider in the county, shall immediately register with the county manager on a form provided by said official. Such persons must so register not later than 30 days after the date that the ordinance from which this article is derived becomes effective. Such registration shall set forth the name under which such person transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of his place of business and such other information which would facilitate the administration of the tax as prescribed by the county manager. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; in case of ownership by an association or partnership, by a member or partner; in case of ownership by a corporation, by an officer. The county manager shall, after such registration, issue without charge a certificate of authority to each lodging provider to collect the tax from the occupant. A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of a lodging provider. Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business to which it is applicable.
(Ord. of 3-6-2006, § 5; Ord. of 12-17-2018 , § 4)
Sec. 58-59. - Determination generally; returns; payments.
(a)
Due date of taxes. All amounts of such tax shall be due and payable to the county manager monthly on or before the 20th day of the month next succeeding the respective monthly period. The tax shall become delinquent for any monthly period after the 20th day of each succeeding month during which it remains unpaid.
(b)
Penalty and interest for failure to pay tax by due date. A lodging provider who fails to make any return or to pay the amount of tax as prescribed, shall be assessed a specific penalty to be added to the tax in the amount of five percent or $5.00, whichever is greater, if the failure is for one month or less; and an additional five percent or $5.00, whichever is greater, for each additional month or fraction thereof in which such failure shall continue; provided, however, that the aggregate penalty for any single violation shall not exceed 25 percent or $25.00, whichever is greater. Delinquent amounts shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, until paid.
(c)
Acceptance of delinquent return and remittance without imposing penalty and interest; authority; requirements. If the failure to make any return or to pay the amount of tax by the due date results from providential cause shown to the satisfaction of the governing authority of the county by affidavit attached to the return, and remittance is made within ten days of the due date, such return may be accepted exclusive of penalty and interest.
(d)
Waiving of penalty and interest; authority. O.C.G.A. § 48-2-41, relating to the authority to waive interest, and O.C.G.A. § 48-2-43, relating to the authority to waive penalty, shall apply; provided, however, that the governing authority shall stand in lieu of the Georgia Commissioner of Revenue, and the county shall stand in lieu of the state.
(e)
Penalty for fraud. In the case of a false or fraudulent return, or of failure to file a return where willful intent exists to defraud the county of any tax due, a penalty of 50 percent shall be assessed.
(f)
Return; remittance; time of filing; lodging providers required to file; contents. On or before the 20th day of the month succeeding each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period together with appropriate remittance shall be filed with the county manager. The return shall report the gross rent, taxable rent, exempt rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the period, and such other information as may be required by the county manager. However, if the estimated tax liability for any monthly period shall exceed $2,500.00 for a lodging provider who, in the prior fiscal year remitted tax greater than $2,500.00 in any three consecutive months, such lodging provider shall file an estimated return and remit not less than 50 percent of the estimated tax liability for the monthly period by the 20th day of that same monthly period. The amount of tax so remitted shall be credited against the amount to be due with the regular return for the monthly period to be filed on the 20th day of the succeeding month.
(g)
Extension of time of filing; authority; requirements; remittance; penalty and interest. The governing authority of the county may, for good cause, extend the time for making returns for not longer than 30 days. No extension shall be valid unless granted in writing upon written application of the lodging provider. Such grant may not be applicable for longer period than 12 consecutive months. A lodging provider granted an extension shall remit tax equaling not less than 100 percent of the tax paid for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year; such remittance to be made on or before the date the tax would otherwise come due without the grant of extension. No penalty or interest shall be charged during the first ten days of the extension period. Thereafter, interest shall be collected on the unpaid balance at the rate of one percent per month.
(h)
Collection fee allowed lodging providers. Lodging providers collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and paying the amount due, if the amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be three percent of the amount due, but only if the amount due was not delinquent at the time of payment.
(Ord. of 3-6-2006, § 6; Ord. of 12-17-2018 , § 2)
Sec. 58-60. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Recomputation of tax; authority to make; basis of recomputation. If the county manager is not satisfied with the return of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the county by any lodging provider, he may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within his possession or that may come into his possession. One or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one or more monthly periods.
(b)
Penalty and interest for failure to pay tax. Penalty and interest shall be assessed upon the amount of any determination, as provided by section 58-59.
(c)
Notice of determination; service of. The county manager shall give to the lodging provider written notice of his determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail, such service shall be addressed to the lodging provider at his address as it appears in the records of the county. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by the addressee, or when made by statutory overnight delivery.
(d)
Time within which notice of deficiency determination to be mailed. Except in cases of failure to make a return or of fraud, every notice of deficiency determination shall be mailed within three years after the 20th day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period should last expire.
(e)
Appeal or protest of deficiency determination. The procedure for contesting a deficiency determination shall be as provided by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-380.
(Ord. of 3-6-2006, § 7; Ord. of 12-17-2018 , § 2)
Sec. 58-61. - Determination if no return made.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts. If any lodging provider fails to make a return, the county manager shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the lodging provider, or as the case may be, of the amount of total rentals in the county which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period in respect to which the lodging provider failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the county manager. Written notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in section 58-60(c).
(b)
Penalty and interest for failure to pay tax. Penalty and interest shall be assessed upon the amount of any determination, as provided by section 58-59.
(Ord. of 3-6-2006, § 8; Ord. of 12-17-2018 , § 2)
Sec. 58-62. - Collection of tax by county.
(a)
Action for delinquent tax; time for. At any time within three years after any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected becomes due and payable, and at any time within three years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, the county manager may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the county to collect the amount delinquent together with penalty, interest, court fees, filing fees, attorney's fees and other legal fees incident thereto.
(b)
Lodging provider selling or quitting business. If any lodging provider liable for any amount under this article sells out his business or quits his business, he shall make a final return and remittance within 15 days after the date of selling or quitting the business.
(c)
Duty of successors or assignees of lodging provider to withhold tax from purchase money. If any lodging provider liable for any amount of tax, interest or penalty under this article sells out his business or quits the business, his successors or assigns shall withhold sufficiently from the purchase price to cover such amount until the former owner produces from the county manager either a receipt reflecting full payment or a certificate stating that no amount is due.
(d)
Liability for failure to withhold. If the purchaser of a business fails to withhold from the purchase price as required, he shall be personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be withheld by him to the extent of the purchase price.
(e)
Credit for tax, penalty or interest paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected. Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty or interest has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the county, it may be refunded by the governing authority. If the lodging provider or person determines that he has overpaid or paid more than once, which fact has not been determined by the county manager, such person shall have three years from the date of payment to file a claim in writing stating the specific ground upon which the claim is founded. The claimant may request a hearing before the governing authority at which the claim and any other information available will be considered. The governing authority shall approve or disapprove the claim, and notify the claimant of its action.
(Ord. of 3-6-2006, § 9; Ord. of 12-17-2018 , § 2)
Sec. 58-63. - Administration; recordkeeping.
(a)
Authority of county manager. The county manager shall administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter for the collection of the tax.
(b)
Records required from lodging providers, etc.; form. Every lodging provider renting guestrooms in the county shall preserve, for a minimum of three years, all folios, receipts, certificates of exemption and such other documents as the county manager may prescribe, and in such form as he may require. Said records shall at all times be available for examination within the county.
(c)
Examination of records; audits. The county manager or any person authorized in writing by him may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any lodging provider renting guestrooms and any lodging provider liable for the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the lodging provider, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid. Such examination shall be conducted at the place of lodging provision, unless the county manager shall stipulate another place within the county.
(d)
Authority to require reports; contents. In administration of the provisions of this chapter, the county manager may require the filing of reports by any person or class of persons having in their possession or custody information relating to the rental of guestrooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the county manager when required by said official, and shall set forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the date of occupancy, the basis for exemption, or such other information as the county manager may prescribe.
(Ord. of 3-6-2006, § 10; Ord. of 12-17-2018 , § 2)
Sec. 58-64. - Violations and penalties.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any lodging provider to fail, neglect, or refuse to collect the tax provided for in section 58-56 of this Code, either by himself or herself, or through his or her agents or employees. In addition to the penalty and interest for failure to pay tax by due date assessed pursuant to section 58-59(b) of this Code, any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction therefor shall be punished as provided for in section 1-7 of this Code.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any lodging provider required by this chapter to make, render, sign, or verify any return to make a false or fraudulent return with intent to evade the tax levied by this chapter. In addition to the penalty for fraud assessed pursuant to section 58-59(e) of this Code, any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction therefor shall be punished as provided for in section 1-7 of this Code.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any lodging provider subject to this chapter to fail or refuse to furnish any return required to be made by this chapter or to fail or refuse to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the county. Any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction therefor shall be punished as provided for in section 1-7 of this Code.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any lodging provider subject to this chapter to fail to keep records or to fail to open the records to inspection as required by law. Any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction therefor shall be punished as provided for in section 1-7 of this Code.
( Ord. of 3-16-2020 , § 3)
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted March 16, 2020 , repealed § 58-64 and enacted a new § 58-64 as set out herein. Former § 58-64 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from § 11 of an ordinance adopted March 6, 2006.
Secs. 58-65—58-86. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - RESERVED[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Mar. 16, 2015, § 4 deleted Art. IV, §§ 58-87—58-92, which pertained to Financial Institutions Business License Tax and derived from an ordinance adopted Nov. 21, 2005, § 1(50-100—50-105).

Secs. 58-87—58-110. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - RESERVED[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Mar. 16, 2015 , § 1, deleted Art. V, §§ 58-111—58-142, which pertained to occupation tax and derived from an ordinance adopted Nov. 21, 2005, § 1(50-1—50-33).

Secs. 58-111—58-142. - Reserved.
