ARTICLE I. - BUSINESS OCCUPATION TAX

Sec. 18-1. - Payment of tax required; applicability; display of license.
As of March 1, 2015 and for each calendar year thereafter beginning January 1, 2016, each person engaged in or commencing any business, trade, profession or occupation in the unincorporated area of Habersham County, Georgia or, in the case of an out of state business with no location in Georgia pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for said business, trade, profession or occupation; and any applicable business license shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the tax payer has a permanent business location in Habersham County. If the tax payer has no permanent business location in Habersham County, Georgia, such business tax registration shall be shown to the county manager or his designee, license inspector, code enforcement officer or the sheriff of Habersham County, Georgia or any of his deputies, upon his or their request.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-101) )
Sec. 18-2. - Construction of terms; definitions.
(a)
"Habersham County, Georgia" as used herein shall be construed to mean the unincorporated area of Habersham County, Georgia; wherever the term "county" is used herein, it shall be construed to mean the unincorporated area of Habersham County, Georgia.
(b)
As used herein the following terms shall apply:
Administrative fee means a base component of an occupational tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Board of commissioners means the governing body of Habersham County, Georgia, and shall also include the terms "board" and "board of commissioners of Habersham County."
Business means any person who, in Habersham County, engages in, causes to be engaged in or represents himself or herself to be engaged in any occupation or activity with the object of gain, benefit, or advantage, either directly or indirectly. This shall include any person advertising by any means, including but not limited to signs, cards, circulars, newspapers, etc., that he or she is engaged in a business of any kind.
Business license means the certificate issued upon payment of the administrative fee, payment of the regulatory fee, if any, and the payment of the occupation tax. Only one business license certificate shall be issued, which shall demonstrate that the fees and tax have been paid.
Dominant line means the type of business within a multiple line business that the greatest amount of income is derived from.
Employee.
(a)
Any individual, owner, family member or relative who works 40 hours per week and whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer who withholds FICA, federal income tax or state income tax from such individual's compensation or whose employer issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form IRS W-2, but not a form IRS 1099, shall be counted as an employee. Computation of employees who work less than 40 hours to produce full time equivalents is set out in subsection 18-5(b). For purposes of this chapter, each business will have a minimum of one employee.
(b)
An individual who performs work under the direction and supervision of one business or practitioner in accordance with the terms of a contract or agreement with another business which recruits such individual is an employee of the business or practitioner which issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form IRS W-2.
Engaged in business or carrying on business means doing or performing any act of selling any goods or services, or soliciting business, or offering any goods or services for sale primarily in an attempt to make a profit, including selling or performing services of the character of a wholesaler or retailer, or being involved in any of the functions performed as a manufacturer, or renting real or personal property; all of the foregoing performed either as an owner, operator or agent of any business, trade, profession, or occupation within Habersham County.
Flea markets as used herein shall mean a retail sales operation wherein one or more spaces are made available from which goods or wares are sold.
Licensee means the person issued the license, his authorized employee in charge of the business of the licensee, or the person operating the business of the licensee.
Location or office shall include any structure or vehicle where a business, profession, or occupation is conducted, but shall not include a temporary or construction work site which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession or occupation which has a location or office. The renter's or lessee's location which is the site of personal property which is rented or leased from another does not constitute a location or office for the personal property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor. The site of real property which is rented or leased to another does not constitute a location or office for the real property's owner, lessor or the agent of the owner or lessor unless the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor, in addition to showing the property to prospective lessees or tenants and performing maintenance or repair of the property, otherwise conducts the business of renting or leasing the real property at such site or otherwise conducts any other business, profession, or occupation at such site.
Nonprofit organization means a corporation, club or group exempt from income taxation under the Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder as now existing or as hereafter amended, or regulations promulgated by the Secretary of State of Georgia, now existing or as hereafter amended.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession or business for revenue raising purposes.
Person, wherever used in this article, shall be held to include sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships or any other form of business organization.
Practitioner of a profession or occupation is one who by state law requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation.
Practitioners of professions and occupations shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
Registration, business registration, and business tax registration are all synonymous with "business license" and shall mean the certificate issued upon payment of the administrative fee, the regulatory fee, if any, and the occupation tax, if applicable. Only one business license certificate shall be issued, which shall demonstrate that the fees and tax have been paid.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or as an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the county. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee or a registration fee. development impact fees as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2(8) or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
Yard sale means sales of used household belongings by an individual at his principal residence or by a group of individuals combining such items for a group yard sale at one of their principal residences. Such sales may be held no more than four times in a calendar year, with each individual sale lasting no more than three consecutive days, and shall be exempt from the fee requirements of this chapter. All merchandise must be the property of the person(s) holding the sale and not be purchased for the purpose of resale. The term also includes garage sales, basement sales, or other similar usage. All other sales of merchandise are considered retail sales, and subject to the provisions of this chapter.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-102) )
Sec. 18-3. - Purpose and scope of occupation tax.
(a)
The occupation tax levied herein is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the occupation tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any profession which is classified in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)-(18).
(b)
The occupation tax applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5—48-13-26.
(c)
All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinances.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-103) )
Sec. 18-4. - Administrative fee and regulatory fee structure; tax structure.
(a)
A non-prorated, non-refundable administrative fee of $25.00 shall be required on all business occupation tax accounts for the initial start-up, renewal or reopening of those accounts.
(b)
A regulatory fee will only be imposed as provided under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9 on those businesses that require an application on an annual basis, and on those businesses which will require an application for the initial business license for the purpose of regulating the business in reference to character checks, or other verification that is necessary to legally permit operation of that business for the current licensing year. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee.
(1)
Classifying businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations according to whether such businesses and practitioners have a location within the unincorporated area of Habersham County and imposing and collecting differential regulatory fees on the basis of such a classification is prohibited.
(2)
The regulatory fee is not a general revenue producing component of the license fee structure, and must reflect approximately the actual reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed.
(c)
Regulatory fees authorized by this chapter shall be paid before commencing business or the practice of a profession as a condition precedent for transacting business or practicing a profession.
(d)
Regulatory fees may be paid after commencing business or the practice of a profession when:
(1)
The work done or services provided are necessary for the health or safety of one or more individuals.
(2)
The work done or services provided have no adverse effect on any other person; and
(3)
Regulatory fees are tendered to the local government within two business days after commencing business or practice of a profession.
(e)
Regulatory fees and administrative fees may not be prorated on businesses that close, dissolve, are sold or relocate outside unincorporated Habersham County, or otherwise cease to operate in unincorporated Habersham County, prior to the expiration of the license on December 31 of each calendar year.
(f)
Any and all regulatory and/or administrative fees paid shall be non-refundable after the fact.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-104) )
Sec. 18-5. - Occupation tax levied; amount.
(a)
An occupation tax is levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices within unincorporated areas of Habersham County, Georgia, and upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in Georgia pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7 based upon the following criteria: The tax shall be levied on the number of employees of the business or practitioner.
(b)
The occupation tax shall be determined according to the number of employees of the business or practitioner as computed on a full-time position basis or full-time position equivalent basis, provided that, for the purpose of this computation, an employee who works 40 hours or more weekly shall be considered a full-time employee and that the average weekly hours of employees who work less than 40 hours weekly shall be added and such sum shall be divided by 40 to produce full-time position equivalents. The occupation tax shall be levied as set forth in the occupation tax fee schedule attached to the ordinance from which this chapter derives as Exhibit "A", which fee schedule shall be formulated from time to time by the board of commissioners and shall be maintained for public inspection by the county clerk.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-105) )
Sec. 18-6. - Occupation tax restrictions; transfer of business license.
(a)
Habersham County shall not require an additional occupational tax on those businesses that have paid the occupation tax in other localities or states on the business's or practitioner's sales or services in Georgia, provided that those businesses or practitioners were taxed in full compliance with O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-7 and 48-13-14, and show proof of payment of the occupation tax.
(b)
Habersham County shall not require an occupation tax from those real estate brokers, agents or companies whose offices are located outside the unincorporated areas of Habersham County, Georgia, and sell property inside the unincorporated areas of Habersham County, Georgia.
(c)
The business license shall not be transferable to another person, firm or corporation in the same location. The business license may be transferred from one location to another provided the ownership of the business remains the same and application is made hereunder in advance of re-location. Otherwise, a new application and license will be necessary.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-106) )
Sec. 18-7. - Payment of occupation tax by businesses with no location in state.
If not exempt pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7(f), the board of commissioners of Habersham County, Georgia, requires a registration and the assessment of an occupation tax on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the State of Georgia providing the largest dollar volume of business in Georgia is done or performed in the unincorporated area of Habersham County, and the business or practitioner has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the unincorporated area of Habersham County, Georgia, for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-107) )
Sec. 18-8. - Each line of business to be identified on business registration.
The business registration/business license certificate of each business operated in the county shall identify the line or lines of business that the business conducts. No business shall conduct any line of business without first having that line of business registered with the business license department and that line of business being noted by the business license department upon the business license certificate which is to be displayed by the business owner.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-108) )
Sec. 18-9. - Each location considered separate business.
Where a person conducts business at more than one store or location, each store or location shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax; however, no more than one occupation tax shall be required for each location.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-109) )
Sec. 18-10. - Occupation tax on professionals.
Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18) shall elect each calendar year as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
The occupation tax based on number of employees as provided in [section 18-5] of this chapter.
(2)
A fee of $300.00 per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service, such tax to be paid at the practitioner's office or location. The per practitioner fee shall include all persons in the business who qualify as a practitioner under the state's regulatory guidelines and framework.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-110) )
Sec. 18-11. - Exemption for practitioners exclusively practicing for government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, or instrumentalities of the United States, shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-111) )
Sec. 18-12. - Allocation of employees of business with multiple locations.
(a)
For those businesses that have multiple locations inside and outside of the county where the employees can be allocated to each location, the number of employees used to determine the occupation tax assessed will be those employees attributed to each county location. In the case of an employee who works for the same business or practitioner in more than one municipal corporation or county, the municipal corporation or county in which the employee works for the longest period of time within the calendar year shall be authorized to count the individual as an employee who is employed within the local government's geographic jurisdiction for purposes of occupation tax. Upon request, the business or practitioner with a location or office situated in more than one jurisdiction shall provide to the county the following:
(1)
Payroll and personnel records necessary to allocate the number of employees of the business or practitioner; and
(2)
Information relating to the allocation of the business's or practitioner's number of employees by other local governments.
(b)
Where the business has locations outside of the county and taxation is levied for a criteria other than number of employees in the other local government's jurisdiction, the county shall not assess more than the allotted share of number of employees for the local operation.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-112) )
Sec. 18-13. - Miscellaneous exemptions.
No occupation tax, regulatory fee or administrative fee shall be levied on the following:
(1)
Any state or local authority or nonprofit organization;
(2)
Veterans with a ten percent or greater disability, upon presentation of a certificate of exemption from the state director of veterans services;
(3)
Blind persons, upon presentation of a certificate of exemption from the judge of probate court of Habersham County;
(4)
Such other businesses as are exempt by federal or state statute;
(5)
Agricultural production of crops and livestock, except poultry hatcheries, forestry and fishing, and hunting and trapping;
(6)
Sale of produce, fruits and vegetables grown by the seller when the point of sale is on the property where grown;
(7)
The builder of a single home or outbuilding for his own use. This exemption does not extend to subcontractors or persons acting in a construction management capacity;
(8)
Service performed by a unit of government, but not a private contractor for a unit of government.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-113) )
Sec. 18-14. - Evidence of state registration required if applicable.
Each person who is licensed under O.C.G.A. title 43 by the state license examining boards shall provide evidence of proper state licensure before the county business license may be issued.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-114) )
Sec. 18-15. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
(a)
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificate of qualification, certificates of competency, certificate of occupancy, or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a county business license, show evidence of such qualification.
(b)
Any business required to submit an annual application for continuance of that business shall do so before the business license is issued.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-115) )
Sec. 18-16. - Liability of officers and agents; registration required; failure to obtain registration.
All persons subject to the occupation taxes provided in this chapter shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for said business prescribed in this chapter, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a business license. Every person commencing business in Habersham County after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration herein provided for before commencing the same; and any person transacting or offering to transact in the county any of the kinds of business, trade, profession or occupation subject to this chapter without first having so obtained said registration shall be subject to penalties provided herein, and, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 18-18 of this chapter.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-116) )
Sec. 18-17. - Delinquent fees or tax; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such registration shall be for the calendar year in which the registration was obtained unless otherwise specifically provided. If any fees or occupation tax due under this chapter remain due and unpaid for 30 days from their due date, the person liable for the fees or tax shall be subject to and shall pay a penalty of $2.00 per month until paid in full beginning on the first of the next month following the month in which the fees and tax became due. Said penalty shall be in addition to all other penalties, civil and criminal, herein provided; and may be collected by the remedies herein provided for collection of the occupation tax, the administrative fee and the regulatory fee, and shall have the same lien and priority as the occupation tax to which the penalty is applied. On renewal registrations, applicable penalties and interest fees shall be collected based on the annual due date of January 1.
(b)
The business license herein provided for shall be issued by the county manager or his designee, and, if any person, firm or corporation whose duty it is to obtain a business license shall, after said occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the county, any of the kind of business, trade, profession or occupation subject to this chapter, without having first obtained said business license, such offender shall be subject to the penalties provided in section 18-18 below.
(c)
In addition to the above remedies, the county manager or his designee may proceed to direct the Habersham County Code Enforcement Officer or the Habersham County Sheriff to collect such fee or tax in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-117) )
Sec. 18-18. - Violation of chapter; penalty.
(a)
In addition to other remedies available to the county for the collection of special taxes, occupation taxes and regulatory fees due the county from persons subject to the tax or fee who fail or refuse to pay the tax or fee, the officer charged with the collection of the tax or fee shall issue executions against the delinquent taxpayers for any or all of the following:
(1)
The amount of the taxes or fees due when the taxes or fees become due.
(2)
Any penalty imposed by subsection 18-17(a) of the Official Code of Habersham County, Georgia.
(b)
The court of competent jurisdiction (Habersham County Magistrate Court) for the enforcement of ordinances of the local government which has levied the tax or imposed the fee may impose a civil fine for failure to pay the occupation tax or regulatory fee. Such a civil fine shall not exceed $500.00 and may be enforced by the contempt power of the court.
(c)
Any person, firm, corporation, association or partnership violating any provision of this chapter as the same exists or as it may hereinafter be amended, or shall fail to do anything required by this chapter as the same exists or as it may hereafter be amended, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, amenable to the process of the magistrate or State Court of Habersham County, and upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in the Official Code of Habersham County, Georgia for each violation in the discretion of the court.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-118) )
Sec. 18-19. - Business inspectors.
The Habersham County code enforcement officer and any duly designated assistants or their successors shall be classified as deputy business inspectors with full subpoena and arresting powers in conjunction with any violation of this chapter.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-119) )
Sec. 18-20. - Businesses not covered by chapter.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this chapter, but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the State of Georgia or by act of local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the Georgia Public Service Commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. chapter 3 of title 46.
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-120) )
Sec. 18-21. - Occupation tax inapplicable where levy prohibited or exempted by law.
This occupation tax is not levied upon the number of employees of any part of a business where such levy is prohibited or exempted by the laws of Georgia or of the United States.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-121) )
Sec. 18-22. - Date when occupation tax due and payable.
The amount of occupation tax shall be due and payable to the said county, at the business license office of the county on January 1 each year, and delinquent if not paid within 30 days from the due date. In the event that any person commences business on any date after January 1, in any year, the tax shall be due and payable within 30 days of the date of the commencement of the business.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-122) )
Sec. 18-23. - Payment of occupation tax by newly established businesses.
In the case of a business subject to occupation tax for a calendar year, which was not conducted for any period of time in the unincorporated area of Habersham County in the preceding year, the owner, proprietor, manager or executive officer of the business liable for occupation tax shall estimate the number of employees from the commencing date to the end of the calendar year and such tax shall be paid as provided in section 18-5. When any person commences business on or after July 1, in any year, the occupation tax for the remaining portion of the year shall be 50 percent of the tax imposed for the entire year and shall be due and payable within 30 days from the commencement of the business. The administrative fee and the regulatory fee shall not be reduced.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-123) )
Sec. 18-24. - Inspection of books and records.
In any case, the county manager or his designee, through his officers, agents, employees or representatives, may inspect the books of the business upon which the applications are made. The county manager or his designee shall have the right to inspect the books or records of the business for which the application was made in the county, and upon demand of the county manager or his designee such books or records shall be submitted for inspection by a representative of the county within 30 days. Failure of submission of such books or records within 30 days shall be grounds for revocation of the business license currently existing to do business in the county. Adequate records shall be kept in Habersham County, Georgia, for examination by the county manager or his designee at his discretion. If, after examination of the books or records, it is determined that a deficiency occurs as a result of under reporting, a penalty of ten percent of the deficiency and an additional one percent of the deficiency for each month or fraction thereof that the deficiency was due and unpaid shall be assessed.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-124) )
Sec. 18-25. - Revocation of business license for failure to pay tax, file returns, or permit inspection of books.
Except for a person whose qualifications to practice his or her profession are determined by the general laws of the State of Georgia, upon the failure of any business to pay said occupation tax or any part thereof before it becomes delinquent as above provided, any business license granted by the county under this chapter permitting the owner of said business to do business in the county for the current year shall be, ipso facto, revoked. No new business license shall be granted by the county for the operation of a business for which any part of the occupation tax herein provided for is at that time unpaid, or to a person who has failed to submit adequate records as requested.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-125) )
Sec. 18-26. - Effect of noncompliance; continuing in business after business license revocation.
Any person, or their manager, agent or employee, who does business in the county after the business license for said business has been revoked as herein provided; any person, or their manager, agent or employee, who is hereby required to make returns showing the number of employees and who fails to make said returns within the time and in the manner herein provided, or refuses to amend such returns so as to set forth the correct information, or who shall make false returns; and any person, or their manager, agent or employee, who refuses to permit an inspection of books in their charge when the officer(s), agent(s), employee(s) or representative(s) of the county request such inspection, during normal business hours, for the purpose of determining the accuracy of the returns herein provided for, shall be subject to the penalties provided in section 18-18 of this chapter.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-126) )
Sec. 18-27. - Execution for delinquent occupation tax.
In addition to the other remedies herein provided for the collection of the occupation tax herein levied, the tax commissioner of Habersham County, upon any tax becoming delinquent and remaining unpaid, shall issue execution for the correct amount of said tax against the person liable for said tax, which execution shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month from the date when such tax or installment becomes delinquent, and the lien shall cover the property of the person liable for said tax, all as provided by the resolutions of Habersham County, Georgia, and the laws of Georgia. The lien of said occupation tax shall become fixed on and dated from the time when such tax becomes delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the sheriff of Habersham County upon the property of the person liable for said tax, and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of said execution, with interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be had as is provided by the resolutions of Habersham County and the laws of Georgia, and the defendant in said execution shall have rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality and otherwise, which are provided by the resolutions of Habersham County and the laws of Georgia in regard to tax executions. When a nulla bona entry has been entered by proper authority upon an execution issued by the tax commissioner of Habersham County, Georgia, against any person defaulting on the occupation tax, the person against whom the entry was made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatsoever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If, at any time after the entry of nulla bona has been made, the person against whom the execution issues pays the tax in full together with all interest, penalties and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due the person as though the person had never defaulted in the payment of the taxes.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-127) )
Sec. 18-28. - Amendments.
Subject to the provisions of section 18-32, this chapter shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no such amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the board of commissioners to assess and collect any of the taxes or other charges prescribed. Said amendment may increase or lower the amounts and tax rates of any occupation and may change the classification thereof. The payment of any occupation tax provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the levy or collection by the county of additional occupation taxes upon the same person, property or business.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-103) )
Sec. 18-29. - Payment of tax or assessment levied under prior ordinance or resolution.
This chapter does not repeal or affect the force of any part of any ordinance or resolution heretofore passed where taxes levied under such prior ordinance or resolution have not been paid in full. So much and such parts of ordinances and/or resolutions heretofore and hereafter passed as provided for the issuing and enforcing of execution for any tax or assessment required by such ordinances or resolutions, or that imposed fines or penalties for the nonpayment of such tax, or for failure to pay regulatory fees provided for in said ordinance or resolution, or failure to comply with any other provisions hereof, shall continue and remain in force until such tax, regulatory fee or assessment shall be fully paid.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-129) )
Sec. 18-30. - Enforcement of chapter.
It is hereby made the duty of the county manager or his designee, the Habersham County Code Enforcement Officer, and the Habersham County Sheriff's Department to see that the provisions of this chapter relating to business occupation taxes and regulations are observed; and to summon all violators of the same to appear before the magistrate court of Habersham County or the state court of Habersham County. It is hereby made the further duty of the county manager or his designee, the Habersham County Code Enforcement Officer and/or the sheriff, and their designees and assistants, to inspect all business licenses issued by the county, as often as in their judgment it may seem necessary, to determine whether the business license held is the proper one for the business sought to be transacted thereunder.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-130) )
Sec. 18-31. - Provisions of chapter to remain in effect until amended by board of commissioners.
This chapter shall remain in full force and effect until changed by amendment adopted by the board of commissioners. All provisions hereof relating to any form of tax herein levied shall remain in full force and effect until such taxes have been paid in full.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-131) )
Sec. 18-32. - Public hearing required before adoption of tax.
The board of commissioners shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any resolution which will affect the occupation tax as set forth in this chapter.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-132) )
Sec. 18-33. - Authority to establish exemption or reduction in tax.
(a)
The board of commissioners may by subsequent resolution provide for an exemption or reduction in occupation tax or a credit against occupation tax owed by one or more types of businesses or practitioners of occupations or professions as part of a plan for economic development or attracting, encouraging, or maintaining selected types of businesses or practitioners of selected occupations or professions. Such exemptions or reductions in occupation tax shall not be arbitrary or capricious.
(b)
Exemptions or reductions in occupation tax pursuant to subsection (a) of this section may include but shall not be limited to the following:
(1)
Absolute dollar amount limitations on the total amount of tax, either by criterion or combination of criteria used for classification or for businesses and practitioners, provided that a jurisdiction which provides an absolute dollar amount limitation on the total amount of tax shall levy and collect such maximum tax only once on each business entity or practitioner even if a business or practitioner has more than one office or location within the jurisdiction;
(2)
Tax credits for the retention or creation of jobs, or for jobs of a specific description, including but not limited to entry level jobs or jobs with compensation of a specified range;
(3)
Tax credits for other taxes paid to the local government, including but not limited to ad valorem taxes;
(4)
A tax exemption or a lower rate of taxation for sales to customers outside the jurisdiction of Habersham County;
(5)
A credit or rebate to businesses or practitioners who paid occupation taxes in the previous year;
(6)
A limitation on the dollar or percentage amount of increase in tax from a base year to a subsequent year, provided that the limitation is made applicable to new businesses or practitioners by imputing the number of employees of the subsequent year to the base year in calculating tax for the base year, tax for the subsequent year and the increase in tax; and
(7)
A credit or reduction as an adjustment for seasonal fluctuations in the number of employees, other fluctuations in the number of employees, increases or decreases in the number of employees, or temporary employees.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-133) )
Sec. 18-34. - Conflicts between specific and general provisions.
Where there is an apparent conflict in this chapter between specific and general provisions, it is the intention hereof that the specific shall control.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-134) )
Sec. 18-35. - Public hearing on use of increased revenue.
In any year when revenue from occupation taxes is greater than revenue from occupation taxes for the preceding year in Habersham County, one or more public hearings shall be held by the board of commissioners of Habersham County as part of the process of determining how to use the additional revenue.
( Ord. of 3-16-2015, § 1(18-135) )
Secs. 18-36—18-60. - Reserved.
