Chapter 46 - PLANNING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Coordinated and comprehensive planning by counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-70-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 46-1—46-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PLANNING COMMISSION

Sec. 46-19. - Creation.
The board of commissioners hereby establishes the county planning commission, to be governed by the provisions of this article.
(Res. of 11-20-1972)
Sec. 46-20. - Membership; term of office; compensation of members.
The planning commission shall consist of five members, who shall be residents of the county and shall be appointed by the board of commissioners. The terms of the members shall be for three years, except that, in the appointment of the first planning commission under the terms of this article, the first two members shall be appointed for a term of one year, the third member shall be appointed for a term of two years, and the fourth and fifth members shall be appointed for a term of three years, beginning January 1, 1973. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the board of commissioners, which shall also have the authority to remove any member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All members shall serve without compensation, but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
(Res. of 11-20-1972, § 1)
Sec. 46-21. - Officers, rules, staff and finances.
(a)
The planning commission shall elect its chairman from among its members. The term of the chairman shall be one year, with eligibility for reelection. The planning commission shall appoint a secretary, who may be an officer or employee of the county. The planning commission shall make its own rules of procedure and determine its time of meeting. All meetings of the planning commission at which official action is taken shall be open to the public, and all records of the planning commission shall be a public record.
(b)
The planning commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work, and may contract with the state planning agency and city planners and other consultants for such services as it may require. The expenditures of the planning commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 11-20-1972, § 2)
Sec. 46-22. - Powers and duties.
The planning commission shall serve in an advisory capacity to the county.
(Res. of 11-20-1972, § 3)
