CHAPTER 2.20. - COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR
EXPAND
2.20.010. Position created; purpose.
2.20.020. Powers and duties.
 
2.20.010. - Position created; purpose.
There is created the position of county administrator to provide administrative assistance to the board in the performance of its duties and responsibilities.
(Res. of 5-12-69; Code 1991, ยง 2.08.010)
2.20.020. - Powers and duties.
The county administrator as the chief executive officer of the government of the county shall be responsible to the board of commissioners for the proper and efficient administration of the affairs of the county, and shall have the following powers and duties:
A.
To direct and supervise the administration of all county offices and departments for which the board is responsible, or may hereafter be responsible, including specifically the construction, maintenance and operation of all county roads, bridges, drains, buildings and other public works, and the care and maintenance of all real and personal property owned by the county;
B.
To appoint and, when in his discretion the welfare of the county requires it, suspend, discharge, transfer or remove all employees for whom the board is responsible, excepting the warden and the county attorney, who are appointed directly by the board, but he may delegate to any department head such powers with respect to subordinates within the officer's department or office;
C.
To see that all ordinances, resolutions and orders of the board and all laws of the state subject to enforcement by him or by officers or department heads subject, under this resolution [chapter], to his direction and supervision are faithfully executed;
D.
To prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program to the board and to execute the budget and capital program adopted by the board, approving all disbursements and expenditures as budgeted and/or authorized by the board;
E.
To confer with and assist the heads of all departments, such as the county health department, library and the county welfare department, whose missions are not under the direct control and supervision of the board, but who are dependent upon appropriations of the board for their continued operation;
F.
To confer with and advise all elected or appointed officials of the county who are not under the immediate control of the board, but who receive financial support from the board, such as the sheriff, clerk of court, ordinary, tax commissioner, hospital authority, county agricultural and home demonstration agents and the like;
G.
To examine regularly at periods fixed by the board the accounts, records and operations of every county board, commission, department, office and agency which receives appropriations from the board; to make regular monthly reports to the board on county fiscal and other affairs; to keep the board fully advised on the financial condition of the future needs of the county; and to make such recommendations on county affairs as he deems necessary for the efficient operation of the county;
H.
To supervise the keeping of all records, books of account, bookkeeping, etc., of the county;
I.
To supervise and approve the issuance of all purchase orders of the county;
J.
To submit to the board at the end of each fiscal year a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the county for the preceding year;
K.
To carry into execution such other powers and duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the board;
L.
All reports by the administrator shall be made to the full board in either a regular or called meeting of the board.
(Res. of 5-12-69; Code 1991, ยง 2.08.020)
