APPENDIX B. - Corporate Boundaries

Sec. 1. - Corporate limits—Original; jurisdiction beyond.
The corporate limits or boundaries of said city shall be four (4) straight lines, each one mile in length, which shall enclose one square mile, two of said lines being parallel to the main tracks of the Central Railroad of Georgia, and the other two at right angles thereto, and the exact location of said square mile shall be determined, located and governed by a central point; said central point shall be the center of said square mile, and is located and described as a point in the center of the Central Railroad of Georgia, main track, nearest Hapeville depot, and exactly opposite the center of the said depot. For police and sanitary purposes and the abatement of nuisances, the authority of the said city shall extend one-half mile beyond the limits here named in every direction.
Sec. 2. - Extension of 1910; redefined.
The corporate limits of said City of Hapeville as hereby amended shall embrace and include the following territory, to-wit: All that tract or parcel of land described as follows: Beginning at the original Northwest corner of land lot ninety-nine (99) of the fourteenth (14th) district of originally Henry, now Fulton County, Georgia, and running thence East along the original North line of land lots ninety-nine (99) and ninety-four (94) to the original Northeast corner of land lot ninety-four (94); thence South along the original East lines of land lots ninety-four (94) and ninety-five (95), to the present corporate limits of said City of Hapeville; thence Southeasterly along the present corporate limits of said City of Hapeville and beyond, following a straight line to the right-of-way of the Southern Railway Company; thence Southwesterly said right-of-way to the right-of-way of the Central of Georgia Railway Company; thence Northwesterly along said right-of-way to the original East line of land lot ninety-six (96); thence South along said East line to the original Southeast corner of land lot ninety-six (96); thence West along the original South lines of land lots ninety-six (96) and ninety-seven (97), to the original Southwest corner of land lot ninety-seven (97); thence North along the original West line of land lot ninety-seven (97), to the present corporate limits of said City of Hapeville; thence Northwesterly along the present corporate limits to the extreme Western corner of said corporate limits; thence Northeasterly along present corporate limits of said City of Hapeville to the center of Virginia Avenue; thence West along the center of Virginia Avenue to the center of Whipple Avenue; thence North along the center of Whipple Avenue to the Southwest corner of The Piedmont Cotton Mills property; thence East along the South lines to The Piedmont Cotton Mills property fourteen-hundred and fifteen (1,415) feet, more or less, to the Southeast corner of The Piedmont Cotton Mills property; thence North along the East line of the cotton mills property nine hundred and seventy-one (971) feet to the original North line of land lot one hundred and twenty-seven (127) thence East along said original North line of land lot one hundred and twenty-seven (127), fourteen hundred and eighteen (1,418) feet to the Northeast corner of said land lot one hundred and twenty-seven (127); and thence North along the original West line of land lot ninety-nine (99) to point of beginning.
Sec. 3. - Extension of March 1953.
Extend so as to include and embrace within the corporate limits of the City of Hapeville all the territory lying within the following boundary lines:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 66 of the 14th District of Fulton County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: Beginning at a point where the northwest corner of Land Lot 66 and the southeast corner of Land Lot 94 meet and thence running east along the southern line of Land Lot 67 and the northern line of Land Lot 66, a distance of 850 feet, more or less, to the west side of the south leg of the expressway; and thence southeasterly along the west side of the south leg of the expressway a distance of 2,350 feet, more or less, to a point where the present Hapeville city limits intersect and cross the west side of the south leg of the expressway; and thence northwest along the present Hapeville city limits a distance of 850 feet, more or less, to a point where the present Hapeville city limits intersect the east line of Land Lot 95; and thence north along the east side of Land Lot 95 and the west line of Land Lot 66 a distance of 1,200 feet, more or less, to the point of beginning.
Sec. 4. - Extension of December 1953; interest in water facilities.
Extend so as to include and embrace within the corporate limits of the City of Hapeville all the territory lying within the following boundary lines:
Beginning at a point on the west line of Land Lot 67 of the 14th District of Fulton County four hundred (400) feet south of Mt. Zion Road and running, thence, easterly, parallel with Mt. Zion Road, to a point on the west side of the south leg of the Expressway four hundred (400) feet south of Mt. Zion Road; thence, southerly along the west side of the south leg of the Expressway twenty-five hundred (2,500) feet, more or less, to a point on the south line of said Land Lot 67; thence, west along the south line of Land Lot 67, eight hundred and fifty (850) feet, more or less, to the southwest corner of Land Lot 67; thence, north along the west line of Land Lot 67, twenty-four hundred (2,400) feet, more or less, to the point of beginning.
The City of Hapeville shall acquire no interest in any water mains or facilities and should they desire to use them, they shall pay the City of Atlanta their cost. Should they not desire to use them, the City of Atlanta is hereby granted an easement in all streets involved so as to service said water lines.
Sec. 5. - Exclusion of territory, 1953; interest in municipal facilities.
Exclude therefrom the following described territory:
Beginning at a point on the westerly right-of-way of the south leg of the Expressway twenty-three hundred and fifty (2,350) feet, more or less, south of the north line of Land Lot 66 of the 14th District of Fulton County, said point being where the corporate limits of the City of Atlanta and the City of Hapeville intersect on the westerly right-of-way of the south leg of the Expressway, running thence southerly along the westerly right-of-way of the south leg of the Expressway and continuing southerly along the westerly right-of-way of the ramp leading into the Macon Highway and a projection thereof to the corporate limits of the City of Atlanta north of the Central of Georgia Railway; thence southeasterly, northeasterly, and northwesterly along the corporate limits of the City of Atlanta to the point of beginning. The City of Hapeville shall retain the title to all water mains or other municipal facilities in said area with full authority to sell the same to the City of Atlanta should Atlanta desire to buy the same.
Sec. 6. - Same—Extension of 1959.
Beginning at a point at the approximate center of Mt. Zion Road in the City of Hapeville, Georgia, which point is the northwest corner of Land Lot 67; running thence east along the center of said Mt. Zion Road three hundred sixty (360) feet to the western boundary of the right-of-way of the south leg of the Atlanta expressway system; thence south along the western right-of-way of said Atlanta expressway four hundred (400) feet to a point; thence westerly three hundred fifty (350) feet to the western boundary of Land Lot 67; thence northerly along the said western boundary line of Land Lot 67 four hundred (400) feet to the center of Mt. Zion Road and the point of beginning.
Sec. 7. - Same—Exclusion of 1966.
By excluding and detaching from the geographical area of said city all of the area whereof within Whipple Avenue in Land Lot 127 of the 14th District of Fulton County, and all of the authority, jurisdiction, powers, and rights of said City of Hapeville, its governing authority, officers, and employees are hereby withdrawn and repealed within said detached area, and none of the laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of said city, its governing authority or the several agencies, officers and employees of said city shall apply over any of said area of the inhabitants thereof, and such detached area and the inhabitants thereof shall not be subject to any of the duties, obligations and burdens of said city within said detached area, nor entitled to any rights, privileges, benefits or protection of said City of Hapeville, its laws, ordinances, rules or obligations within said detached area, which is hereby detached and excluded from the corporate limits of said City of Hapeville.
Editor's note— Act No. 453, Sec. 1. Ga. Laws 1966, amended the Act approved September 16, 1891, as amended, by excluding from the city's corporate boundaries, the area codified as Sec. 12.1 of this compilation.
Sec. 8. - Same—Extension of 1986.
In addition to the corporate limits of the City of Hapeville described in Appendix C of this charter, the corporate limits of said city shall also include the following described tract or parcel of land:
ALL THAT TRACT OR PARCEL OF LAND lying and being in Land Lots 127 and 130 of the 14th District of Fulton County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
BEGINNING at a point on the southerly side of Virginia Avenue where said southerly side of Virginia Avenue intersects the southwesterly side of the former entrance ramp to the former terminal for Atlanta Hartsfield International Airport; and run thence southeasterly along the southwesterly side of said former entrance ramp a distance of 84.14 feet to a point; continuing thence in a generally southerly direction along the westerly side of said former entrance ramp a distance of 360.04 feet to a point; running thence westerly a distance of 479.92 feet to a point; running thence northerly a distance of 87 feet to a point; running thence westerly a distance of 174 feet to a point; running thence northerly a distance of 98.68 feet to a point; running thence easterly a distance of 75 feet to a point; running thence northerly a distance of 229.12 feet to a point on the southerly side of said Virginia Avenue; running thence east along the southerly side of Virginia Avenue, and following the right of way thereof, a total distance of 440.63 feet to the southwesterly side of the said former entrance ramp to the former terminal of Atlanta Hartsfield International Airport, and the POINT OF BEGINNING.
(Ga. L. 1986, p. 4345)
Sec. 9. - Same—Extension of 2006.
In addition to the corporate limits of the City of Hapeville, Georgia, described in Appendices B and C of this Charter, the corporate limits of said City shall also include the following described tract or parcel of land:
All parcels located in land Lots 127 and 128 in the 14th District of Fulton County, more particularly described as being located south and west of the incorporated limits of the City of Hapeville, south to the Clayton County line, then west to the incorporated limits of the City of Atlanta, then north to the road centerline of Gary Place, then west and south along the incorporated limits of the City of Atlanta, then west along the road centerline of Hartsfield Center Parkway to the municipal limits of the City of College Park, and then north along the westerly boundary of Land Lots 128 and 127, then north to the incorporated limits of the City of Hapeville, as indicated in Illustration 1 below.
(Ord. No. 2006-04, § 1, 3-7-2006; Ord. No. 2007-08, § 1, 6-19-2007)
