Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The provisions embraced in this and the following chapters, articles and sections shall constitute and be designated the "Code of Ordinances, City of Hapeville, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1959, § 1-1; Code 1981, § 1-1-1)
Sec. 1-1-2. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
(1)
City. The words "the city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the words "of Hapeville, Georgia" followed the word city, and shall extend to and include its several officers, agents and employees.
(2)
City council. The words "city council" or "the council" shall be construed to mean the governing body of the City of Hapeville, Georgia, consisting of a mayor, council members and an alderman.
(3)
Computation of time. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be done, a certain length of time before any proceedings shall be had, the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall be counted in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
(4)
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean the County of Fulton, Georgia.
(5)
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
(6)
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
(7)
Name or title of officer, board, commission or agency. The name or title of any officer, board, commission or agency, when appearing alone herein, shall be construed as if the words "of Hapeville, Georgia" followed it.
(8)
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
(9)
Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
(10)
Or, and. The word "or" may be read as the word "and," and the word "and" may be read as the word "or," if the sense requires it.
(11)
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
(12)
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
(13)
Personal property [The words "personal property"] include every species of property except real property.
(14)
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
(15)
Time. Words used in the present or past tense include the future as well as the present or past.
(Code 1981, § 1-1-2)
Sec. 1-1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted, unless expressly so provided.
(Code 1959, § 1-3; Code 1981, § 1-1-3)
Sec. 1-1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1959, § 1-4; Code 1981, § 1-1-4)
Sec. 1-1-5. - Severability.
(a)
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that all sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are or were, upon their enactment, believed by the mayor and council to be fully valid, enforceable and constitutional.
(b)
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, each and every section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code is severable from every other section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code. It is hereby further declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, no section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code is mutually dependent upon any other section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code.
(c)
In the event that any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall, for any reason whatsoever, be declared invalid, unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, it is the express intent of the mayor and council that such invalidity, unconstitutionality or unenforceability shall, to the greatest extent allowed by law, not render invalid, unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of the Code and that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, all remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of the Code shall remain valid, constitutional, enforceable, and of full force and effect.
(Code 1959, § 1-5; Code 1981, § 1-1-5; Ord. No. 2000-23, § 1, 10-3-2000)
Sec. 1-1-6. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code of Ordinances by the city council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code.
(c)
All sections, divisions, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, division, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1981, § 1-1-6; Ord. No. 99-04, § 1, 3-2-1999; Ord. No. 2001-19, § 1, 12-4-2001)
Sec. 1-1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the mayor and council, which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 hereof.
(Code 1981, § 1-1-7)
Sec. 1-1-8. - General penalty; continuing violations; adjudging fines and imprisonments.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate or fail to comply with any provision of this Code and where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any provision of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or by both such fine and imprisonment. Such penalty may include, in the discretion of the municipal court judge, sentencing offenders to work in a work gang on the public streets or on such public works as the city may employ the work gang. Each day any violation of any provision of this Code shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1981, § 1-1-8)
