CHAPTER 9. - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 9-1. - Public drunkenness.
A person who shall be and appear in an intoxicated condition in any public place or within the curtilage of any private residence not his own other than by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant, which condition is made manifest by boisterousness, by indecent condition or act, or by vulgar, profane, loud, or unbecoming language, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
( Ord. No. 01-18 , ยง 1, 3-20-2018)
Sec. 9-2. - Disorderly conduct.
(a)
A person commits the offense of disorderly conduct when such person commits any of the following:
(1)
Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another person whereby such person is placed in reasonable fear of the safety of such person's life, limb, or health;
(2)
Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another person whereby the property of such person is placed in danger of being damaged or destroyed;
(3)
Without provocation, uses to or of another person in such other person's presence, opprobrious or abusive words which by their very utterance tend to incite to an immediate breach of the peace, that is to say, words which as a matter of common knowledge and under ordinary circumstances will, when used to or of another person in such other person's presence, naturally tend to provoke violent resentment, that is, words commonly called "fighting words"; or
(4)
Without provocation, uses obscene and vulgar or profane language in the presence of or by telephone to a person under the age of 14 years which threatens an immediate breach of the peace.
(b)
Any person who commits the offense of disorderly conduct shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
( Ord. No. 01-18 , ยง 1, 3-20-2018)
Sec. 9-3. - Loitering or prowling.
(a)
A person commits the offense of loitering or prowling when he is in a place at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under circumstances that warrant a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity.
(b)
Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon the appearance of a law enforcement officer, refuses to identify himself, or manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or any object. Unless flight by the person or other circumstances make it impracticable, a law enforcement officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this Code section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm or immediate concern which would otherwise be warranted by requesting the person to identify himself and explain his presence and conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this Code section if the law enforcement officer failed to comply with the foregoing procedure or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and would have dispelled the alarm or immediate concern.
(c)
A person committing the offense of loitering or prowling shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
( Ord. No. 01-18 , ยง 1, 3-20-2018)
Sec. 9-4. - Enforcement.
The Harris County Code Enforcement Officer or the Sheriff of Harris County and his authorized deputies are hereby authorized to exercise enforcement powers and duties with respect to section 9-1 through 9-4 to article I, chapter 9 of the ordinance to issue citations for violations of this article, which citations shall be returnable and heard in the Magistrate Court of Harris County. Any person convicted of violating this article or any portion thereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment in the county prison or jail for six months or both. Each day any violation of this article shall continue shall constitute a separate offense punishable as provided herein.
( Ord. No. 01-18 , ยง 1, 3-20-2018)
