Chapter 8 - PERSONNEL SYSTEM[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 01-04, arts. I—X, adopted Jan. 20, 2004 amended the Code with the addition of provisions designated as chapter 8, personnel system. It should be noted that the inclusion of chapter 8 breaks alphabetical sequence of this Code.
Cross reference— Personnel policies, App. E.

Sec. 8-1. - Purpose.
The general purpose of this act is to establish a system of personnel administration that meets the legal and administrative needs of Harris County. This system shall be consistent with the following merit principles.
(1)
Recruiting, selecting, and advancing employees on the basis of their respective ability, knowledge, and skills, including open competition of qualified applicants for initial appointment;
(2)
Establishing pay rates consistent with the principle of providing comparable pay for comparable work;
(3)
Training employees, as needed, to assure high qualify performance;
(4)
Retaining employees on the basis of adequacy of their performance, correcting inadequate performance, and separating employees whose inadequate performance cannot be corrected;
(5)
Assuring fair treatment of applicants and employees in all aspects of personnel administration without regard to political affiliation, race, color, national origin, sex, age, religion or handicapped status;
Establishing a procedure for the presentation and adjustment of employee grievances based on alleged inequitable treatment because of some conditions of their employment of based on alleged discrimination because of race, color, national origin, sex, age, religion or handicapped status;
Assuring employees protection against partisan political coercion and prohibiting their use of official authority for interfering with or affecting the results of an election or the nomination for an office.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1, 1-7-2003; Ord. No. 01-04, Art. I, 1-20-2004)
Sec. 8-2. - Personnel system.
The personnel system set forth by this chapter shall be a permanent service comprised of all permanent, whether full-time or part-time, employees hired into existing or hereinafter established positions of the county with the following exceptions:
(1)
Members of the county commission and other elected officials;
(2)
Members of appointed or elected boards and commissioners, and judges;
(3)
Persons employed to make or conduct a temporary and special inquiry, investigation, or examination on behalf of the county commission or a committee thereof;
(4)
Volunteer personnel who receive no regular compensation from the county.
(Ord. No. 01-04, Art. II, 1-20-2004)
Sec. 8-3. - Administration.
(a)
The county manager has been appointed by the county commission to serve as personnel officer. He/she shall have full responsibility for all administrative and technical activities of the personnel system and will act as the Equal Employment Opportunity Officer and handicapped coordinator.
(b)
The county commission shall adopt personnel policies which shall have the force and effect of law an which may be amended by a two-third vote of the county commission. As needed, the personnel officer shall submit recommendations for revised or additional personnel policies for consideration and recommendation to the county commission.
(c)
The personnel policy as adopted and as may be amended from time to time by the county commission shall be attached to the Code of Ordinances of Harris County and published as "Appendix E - Personnel Policies."
(Ord. No. 01-04, Art. III, 1-20-2004)
Sec. 8-4. - Procedures.
(a)
A grievance is any dispute concerning the interpretation or application of this chapter, or the personnel policies governing personnel practices or working conditions, or decision relative to any disciplinary action, dismissal, demotion, or a charge of discrimination.
(b)
Grievances shall be processed in accordance with procedures established by the personnel policies.
(Ord. No. 01-04, Art. IV, 1-20-2004)
Sec. 8-5. - Political activity.
Employees of Harris County are encouraged to exercise their right to vote, but no employee shall make use of the county time or equipment to aid a political candidate, political party, or political cause or use a county position to persuade, coerce, or intimidate any person in the interest of a political candidate, political party, or political cause. Federal funded positions are subject to the Hatch Act. The term political candidate shall include a county employee who has qualified to run for public office.
(Ord. No. 01-03, § 1, 1-7-2003; Ord. No. 01-04, Art. V, 1-20-2004)
Sec. 8-6. - Employment of relatives.
No hiring authority shall appoint or employ any person who is a member of his/her immediate family to a position under his/her supervision nor within his/her department. Exceptions to this rule must be on the basis of the superior job related qualification of the family member over those of other applicants and must be approved by a two-thirds vote of the county commission in a public meeting.
(Ord. No. 01-04, Art. VI, 1-20-2004)
Sec. 8-7. - Equal employment opportunity guaranteed.
All applicants for positions and employees of the county shall be assured of fair and equitable treatment in all aspects of personnel administration. Any applicant or employee who alleges discrimination in any personnel transaction shall have the right to counsel with the county manager. If the claim is not satisfactorily resolved, the applicant or employee may then counsel with the board of commissioners as a final authority.
(Ord. No. 01-04, Art. VII, 1-20-2004)
Sec. 8-8. - Unlawful acts prohibited.
In the application procedure no person shall give false information; no person shall give or receive money, service, or other valuable consideration; and no employee shall act in a manner obstructing or unduly benefitting an applicant's prospects for appointment or promotion.
(Ord. No. 01-04, Art. VIII, 1-20-2004)
Sec. 8-9. - Penalties.
Any person employed by Harris County who violates any provision of this chapter or any of the personnel policies established thereunder may, upon hearing by the county commission, have one of the following judgements rendered:
(1)
Dismissal from county service and forfeiture of annual and sick leave or other employee benefits.
(2)
Ineligibility for appointment to or employment in a position in the county service for the period of time stipulated in the personnel policies.
(3)
Suspension without pay for a period of time as stipulated by the personnel policies.
(4)
Demotion to a job or position having less responsibilities and prestige.
(Ord. No. 01-04, Art. IX, 1-20-2004)
Sec. 8-10. - Status of present employees.
Employees having served in their current positions for six months or more prior to the adoption of the personnel policies shall have permanent status. Employees with less than six months continuous employment in their current positions shall serve a probationary period as defined in the policies.
A law enforcement officer must successfully complete state mandated training within the initial 12 months of employment.
(Ord. No. 01-04, Art. X, 1-20-2004)
