ARTICLE III. - INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1994 Ga. Laws, page 4088, which created the Hart County Industrial Development Authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code cross reference—Authorities, boards and commissions, § 2-136 et seq.

Section 1. - Created.
There is created a body corporate and politic in Hart County to be known as the Hart County Industrial Development Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of Hart County and a public corporation and which in this act is referred to as the "authority."
Section 2. - Members.
(a)
The authority shall consist of seven members as follows:
(1)
The chairperson of the board of commissioners of Hart County or a member of the board of commissioners of Hart County designated by the chairperson of such board;
(2)
The mayor of the City of Hartwell or a member of the city council of the City of Hartwell designated by the mayor of such city;
(3)
The mayor of the City of Bowersville or a member of the city council of the City of Bowersville designated by the mayor of such city;
(4)
The president of the Hart County Chamber of Commerce; and
(5)
Three members who shall be appointed by the board of commissioners of Hart County.
(b)
The members provided for in paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (a) of this section shall serve for terms of office as members of the authority which shall run concurrently with the terms of office which they otherwise hold as such officials. Designees shall serve at the pleasure of the official they represent. The three members appointed by the board of commissioners of Hart County pursuant to paragraph (5) of subsection (a) of this section shall serve for terms of office of four years, beginning on the first day of July, 1994, and on the first day of July every four years thereafter. Such members shall be eligible for reappointment. In the event of the death or resignation of either one of said appointed members, a successor shall be appointed by the board of commissioners of Hart County for the remainder of the unexpired term. No vacancy shall impair the power of the authority to act.
(c)
The members of the authority shall receive no compensation for their services to the authority.
Section 3. - Immunity from taxation.
The property, obligations, and the interest on the obligations of the authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations, and interest on the obligations of Hart County.
Section 4. - Powers.
The powers of the authority shall include, but not be limited to, the power:
(1)
To receive and administer gifts, grants, and donations and to administer trusts;
(2)
To borrow money, to issue notes, bonds, and revenue certificates, to execute trust agreements or indentures, and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge, and assign any and all of its funds, property, and income as security therefor;
(3)
To contract with political subdivisions of the State of Georgia, with other authorities, and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
(4)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporations except such as are inconsistent with this act, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents, and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal, bylaws, and regulations for the conduct and management of the authority;
(5)
To encourage and promote the expansion and development of industrial and commercial facilities in Hart County so as to relieve, insofar as possible, unemployment within its boundaries, and to that end to acquire by purchase or gift any building or structure within the limits of Hart County suitable for and intended for use as a factory, mill, shop, processing plant, assembly plant, or fabricating plant, including all necessary and appurtenant lands and appurtenances thereto, and all necessary or useful furnishings, machinery, and equipment. Such acquisition may be through the acquisition of land and the construction thereon of a building, including the demolition of existing structures, or through the acquisition of an existing building and the remodeling, renovation, reconstruction, furnishing, and equipping of such building;
(6)
No building acquired under this Act shall be operated by the authority but shall be leased or sold to one or more persons, firms, or corporations. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due in not more than 30 years from the date of transfer of possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all costs of operating and maintaining the building or buildings and to pay rentals or installments sufficient, together with other revenues which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all bonds, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which the authority may have incurred in connection with the undertaking;
(7)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(8)
To designate officers to sign and act for the authority generally or in any specific matter; and
(9)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the authority as stated in this act.
Section 5. - Financial limitation.
The authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability, or obligation against the State of Georgia or Hart County.
Section 6. - Issuance of bonds to finance undertakings.
In order to finance any undertaking within the scope of its power or to refund any bonds then outstanding, the authority is authorized to issue bonds bearing such rate or rates of interest and maturing at the years and amounts determined by the authority, and the procedure of validation, issuance, and delivery shall be in all respects in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq., the "Revenue Bond Law," as if said obligations had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder; provided, however, that any property, real or personal, of the authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated, or otherwise encumbered as security for any lawful debt of the authority. The authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture not in conflict with the provisions of this act to provide security for any bonds issued as provided in this act, and such trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or under any term or condition under which such bonds are issued. Nothing contained in this act shall be construed to create a right to compel any exercise of the taxing power of Hart County to pay any such bonds or the interest thereon nor to enforce payment thereof against any property of Hart County.
Section 7. - Issuance of bonds for extensions, improvements.
The authority may authorize additional bonds for extensions and permanent improvements to any industrial building acquired under this act to be placed in escrow and to be negotiated from time to time as proceeds for that purpose may become necessary. Bonds so placed in escrow shall, when sold and delivered, have such standing with the bonds of the same issue as may be provided in the authorizing proceedings.
Section 8. - Loans.
In addition to the powers provided in other sections of this act, the authority is authorized to do any or all of the following:
(1)
To extend credit or make secured or unsecured loans to any person, firm, corporation, or other industrial entity for the planning, design, construction, acquisition, or carrying out of any project involving the acquisition, construction, or equipping of any facility to be located within Hart County even though the facility is to be on lands in which the authority has no right, title, or interest upon a determination by the authority that the making of any such loan or the extension of any such credit will, in the judgment of the authority, encourage and promote the expansion and development of industry and commerce in Hart County and will tend to increase employment opportunities within the county. The term "facility" as used in this paragraph means and includes any type of real or personal property or a combination thereof which is intended to be used in connection with the operation of an industrial or manufacturing plant or a commercial enterprise located in Hart County. Such loans or the extension of any such credit shall be secured by such terms and conditions as the authority shall determine to be reasonable;
(2)
To issue its revenue bonds to provide funds with which to make any loan or loans authorized under the provisions of paragraph (1) of this section; and
(3)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this act.
Section 9. - Interest rates on financial obligations.
The interest rate or rates to be borne by any bonds, notes, or other obligations issued by the authority shall be fixed by the authority and any limitations with respect to interest rates found in O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq., the "Revenue Bond Law," or in the usury laws of the State of Georgia shall not apply to obligations issued under this act.
Section 10. - Form of revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds issued by the authority may be in such form, either coupon or fully registered or both coupon and fully registered, and may be in such denominations and subject to such exchangeability and transferability provisions as the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or any indenture or trust agreement or bond purchase agreement may provide.
Section 11. - Certificate of validation of revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds issued by the authority shall bear a certificate of validation. The signature of the clerk of the superior court of Hart County may be placed upon such validation certificate in manual or facsimile form, and the seal of the superior court may be impressed, imprinted, or reproduced thereon.
Section 12. - Resolution regarding bonds.
No bonds except refunding bonds shall be issued by the authority unless its governing body shall adopt a resolution finding that the undertaking for which such bonds are to be issued will promote the objectives of the authority and will tend to increase, or to prevent a decrease in, employment opportunities in Hart County.
Section 13. - Purpose for issuance of revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued to refund any outstanding obligation of the authority.
Section 14. - Use of moneys restricted.
No moneys derived by the authority from any source other than gifts and contributions from private individuals, firms, or corporations shall at any time be used for entertainment or other promotional expenses.
Section 15. - Effect of dissolution of authority on title to property.
Should the authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Hart County subject to any mortgages, liens, leases, or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
Section 16. - Purpose of act.
This act is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare industry and trade within Hart County and reducing unemployment to the greatest extent possible, and this act shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of these purposes.
Section 17. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 17 was deleted in its entirety by 1998 Ga. Laws, page 3799.
Section 18. - Effective date.
This act shall become effective July 1, 1994.
