ARTICLE VI. - SECONDHAND GOODS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 10-228—10-247. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - JUNK DEALERS AND JUNKYARDS[4]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Junk dealers, O.C.G.A. § 43-22-1.

Sec. 10-248. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Business premises or premises means the area of a junkyard as described in a junk dealer's license or application for license, as provided for in this article.
Junk means old iron, steel, brass, copper, tin, lead, or other base metals; old cordage, ropes, rags, fibers, or fabrics; old rubber; old bottles or other glass; bones; wastepaper and other waste or discarded material which might be prepared to be used again in some form; and motor vehicles, no longer used as such, to be used for scrap metal or stripping of parts. The term "junk" shall not include materials or objects accumulated by a person as byproducts, waste, or scraps from the operation of his own business, or materials or objects held and used by a manufacturer as an integral part of his own manufacturing processes.
Junk dealer means a person who operates a junkyard, as defined in this section, within the county.
Junkyard means a yard, lot, or place, covered or uncovered, outdoors or in an enclosed building, containing junk as defined in this section, upon which occurs one or more acts of buying, keeping, dismantling, processing, selling, or offering for sale any such junk, in whole units or by pans, for a business or commercial purpose, whether or not the proceeds from such act or acts are to be used for charity.
Sec. 10-249. - Business registration required.
All junk dealers and persons operating junkyards shall comply with the business registration and all other requirements of this article.
Sec. 10-250. - Regulations.
The following general operating requirements shall apply to all junk dealers licensed in accordance with the provisions of this article:
(1)
The junkyard, together with things kept therein, shall at all times be maintained in a sanitary condition.
(2)
No uncovered space by the license shall be used in the licensed business.
(3)
No water shall be allowed to stand in any place on the premises in such manner as to afford a breeding place for mosquitoes.
(4)
No weeds shall be permitted to attain a height of more than four inches.
(5)
No garbage or other waste liable to give off a foul odor or attract vermin shall be kept on the premises; nor shall any refuse if any kind be kept on the premises, unless such refuse is junk as defined herein and is in use in the licensed business.
(6)
No junk shall be allowed to rest upon or protrude over any public street, walkway, or curb, or become scattered or blown off the business premises.
(7)
Junk shall be stored in piles not exceeding ten feet in height and shall be arranged so as to permit easy access to all such junk for firefighting purposes.
(8)
No combustible material of any kind not necessary or beneficial to the licensed business shall be kept on the premises; nor shall the premises be allowed to become a fire hazard.
(9)
Gasoline and oil shall be removed from any scrapped engines or vehicles on the premises.
(10)
No junk or other material shall be burned on the premises in any incinerator not meeting the requirements of the building code; and no junk or other material shall be burned on the premises in the open, except in accordance with the provisions of this Code.
(11)
No noisy processing of junk or other noisy activity shall be carried on in connection with the licensed business or any Sunday, Christmas, Thanksgiving, or at any time between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(12)
The area on the premises where junk is kept (other than indoors) shall be enclosed, except for entrances and exits, with a solid, vertical wall or fence of a minimum height of eight feet measured from ground level. The fence or wall shall not contain any poster or advertising of any kind excepting one sign of the licensee not exceeding nine square feet in size.
(13)
Entrances and exits shall not be wider or more numerous than reasonably necessary for the conduct of the licensed business.
(14)
No junkyard shall be allowed to become a nuisance nor shall any junkyard be operated in such manner as to become injurious to the health, safety, or welfare of the community or of any residents close by.
Sec. 10-251. - Recordkeeping.
Each acquisition of junk shall be recorded in a permanent-type register kept on the business premises, giving the name and residence address of the person from whom the acquisition was made, a description of the junk acquired, and the date of the transaction. Such data shall be held available for inspection by any police officer.
Sec. 10-252. - Minors.
No junk dealer shall have any business dealings as a junk dealer with a minor (as defined in section 28-126), nor shall a junk dealer's license be issued to a minor, nor shall a junk dealer employ a minor to assist him in his business.
Sec. 10-253. - Stolen goods.
Every junk dealer who shall receive or be in possession of any goods, articles, or things of value which may have been lost or stolen shall upon demand produce such article or thing to any member of the police department for examination.
Sec. 10-254. - Vehicles.
Every vehicle used by a junk dealer in the conduct of his business shall bear thereon in legible characters the name and address of the owner and proprietor thereof.
Secs. 10-255—10-271. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PAWNBROKERS[5]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Pawnbrokers generally, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-130 et seq.; local regulation of pawnbrokers, O.C.G.A. §§ 44-12-135, 44-12-136.

Sec. 10-272. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Pawnbroker means any person engaged in whole or in part in the business of lending money on the security of pledged goods, in the business of purchasing tangible personal property on the condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time, or in the business of purchasing intangible personal property from persons or sources other than manufacturers or rival dealers as a part of or in conjunction with the business activities described in this article.
Pledged goods means tangible personal property other than choses in action, securities or printed evidence of indebtedness which property is purchased by deposit with or otherwise actually delivered into the possession of a pawnbroker in the course of his business.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-130.
Sec. 10-273. - State law adopted by reference.
O.C.G.A. §§ 44-12-130 through 44-12-138 are adopted by reference.
Sec. 10-274. - Responsibility for acts of employees.
The holder of a pawnbroker's license shall be responsible for any and all acts of his employees and for any violation by them of the provisions of this article.
Sec. 10-275. - Employee registration.
Each pawnbroker shall, within three days from hiring an employee, register with the police department the name and address of the employee and shall furnish the fingerprints of the employee on the form as is provided by the police department. The prohibition pertaining to pawnbrokers for prior convictions of misdemeanors and felonies provided in section 10-285 shall also apply to employees.
Sec. 10-276. - Persons from whom pawn may not be taken.
It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker or any employee of a pawnbroker to receive any goods, articles or things pawned or pledged from a person who is intoxicated, under the influence of drugs, insane or is under the age of 18 years.
Sec. 10-277. - Maximum interest rate.
It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker to charge interest exceeding two percent per month on any pledge or the other rate of interest as may be provided by the law of the state. Each pawn ticket shall provide in addition to the other required information the interest rate being charged.
State Law reference— Maximum interest rate, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-131.
Sec. 10-278. - Pawn ticket.
(a)
Each pawnbroker shall furnish to the pledgor a printed receipt clearly showing the amount loaned with a specifically detailed description of the pledged property pawned, the date of receipt thereof, the date for redemption and the name of the pawnbroker and his address.
(b)
The reverse side of the receipt shall be marked in the a manner that the amounts of principal and interest and any other charges paid by the person securing the loan shall be currently designated thereon.
(c)
The pawnbroker shall affix to each article pledged a tag upon which shall be inscribed a number corresponding to the number on the pawn ticket as well as the name and address of the pledgor.
(d)
The following information shall be printed on the front or back of each pawn ticket: "In the event of failure to pay the loan within 30 days from the date hereof, or within 61 days after maturity, you shall thereby forfeit all right and title unto the pledge and pawned property to the pawnbroker." Each pawnbroker shall prepare and deliver to the pledgor at the time of the pledge a separate pawn ticket for each and every item pledged.
State Law reference— Time period for pawn transactions, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-131.
Sec. 10-279. - Permanent record book; specifications for entries.
(a)
Each pawnbroker shall maintain a permanent record book in which shall be entered in legible English at the time of each loan, purchase or sale the date of the transaction; the name of the person conducting the transaction; the name, age and address of the customer; the driver's license or social security number of the customer; a description of the property pledged and if available the serial or model number; the number of the pawn ticket; the amount of the loan and the maturity of the loan. The entry shall be in ink or typewritten and the entries shall be in chronological order. No blank lines may be left between entries. Corrections shall be made by drawing a line through the entry without destroying its legibility with the correction signed by the customer.
(b)
The book shall be open to inspection by any duly authorized law enforcement officer during the ordinary hours of business or at any reasonable time. In addition, each pawnbroker must furnish this same information on a weekly basis to the police department, by 12:00 p.m. noon, on each Monday, covering the previous week's transactions.
State Law reference— Permanent records, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-132.
Sec. 10-280. - Memorandum of entry in record book.
Each pawnbroker shall at the time of each loan deliver to the person pawning or pledging any items a memorandum or note signed by him containing the substance of the entry required to be made by him in the record book required by this article, the estimated value of the items pledged, the amount of the loan, interest rate thereon and dates for all payments. The memorandum or note may be combined with the pawn ticket.
Sec. 10-281. - Safekeeping of pledges.
Every pawnbroker licensed under the provisions of this article shall provide a safe place for the keeping of pledges received by him and shall have sufficient insurance on the property held as pledges for the benefit of the pledgers in case of destruction by fire, water or any other natural or unnatural hazard, as well as theft.
Sec. 10-282. - Forfeiture of pawn.
The pawnbroker shall retain in his possession every pledge or pawn for a minimum period of 60 days after the maturity of the loan or pawn or after the last payment of interest or principal is due. If the pledger shall fail or neglect for 61 days after maturity of the loan or pawn or the due date of the last payment to redeem the pawned property the pawnbroker may sell the property held for redemption without notice to pledger. After a loan is in default the pawnbroker may refuse to accept any payment less than the entire principal and interest due.
Sec. 10-283. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or transact a pawnbroker business or pawn shop in the unincorporated areas of the county without first having procured a county business registration therefor and complied with all other applicable provisions of this article.
Sec. 10-284. - Bond.
(a)
In addition to all other requirements of this article, the applicant shall file with the application for a business registration a bond payable to the county conditioned for the faithful observance and performance of all provisions of this division and all state and federal laws pertaining to pawnbrokers.
(b)
The bond shall be in the amount of $50,000.00 with a corporate surety and shall be effective for the period of issuance of the business registration.
(c)
The bond required herein must remain in full force and effect during the entire period or periods that the pawnbroker business or pawnshop holds a county business registration.
Sec. 10-285. - Investigation by police department.
(a)
All applications for pawnbroker's business registrations shall be investigated by the police department to determine that the applicant is of good reputation and moral character and that all requirements of this article have been met.
(b)
The applicant will also furnish with the application a set of fingerprints for the applicant, all partners of a partnership and all directors and officers of a corporation together with all employees on the form as shall be provided by the county. No business registration shall be issued to any applicant currently under probation for conviction of a misdemeanor or felony or any applicant who has been convicted of a felony within five years of the date of the application.
Secs. 10-286—10-303. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - FLEA MARKET VENDORS

Sec. 10-304. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Flea market.
(1)
The term "flea market" means a place:
a.
At which two or more persons offer personal property for sale or exchange; and
b.
At which a fee is charged for the privilege of offering or displaying personal property for sale or exchange; or
c.
At which a fee is charged to prospective buyers for admission to the area where personal property is offered or displayed for sale or exchange; or
d.
Regardless of the number of persons offering or displaying personal property or the absence of fees, at which used personal property is offered or displayed for sale or exchange if the event is held more than six times in any 12-month period.
(2)
The term "flea market" is interchangeable with and applicable to the term "swap meet," "indoor swap meet," or other similar terms regardless of whether these events are hold inside a building or outside in the open. The primary characteristic is that these activities involve a series of sales sufficient in number, scope, and character to constitute a regular course of business.
(3)
The term "flea market" shall not mean or shall not apply to:
a.
An event which is organized for the exclusive benefit of any community chest, fund, foundation, association, or corporation organized and operated for religious, educational, or charitable purposes, provided that no part of any admission fee or parking fee charged vendors or prospective purchasers or the gross receipts or net earnings from the sale or exchange of person property, whether in the form of a percentage of the receipts or earnings, as salary, or otherwise, inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or person participating in the organization or conduct of the event; or
b.
Any event at which all of the personal property offered for sale or displayed is new, and all persons selling, exchanging, or offering or displaying personal property for sale or exchange are manufacturers, business registration retailers, or wholesale merchants.
Food vendor means any person who engages in the retail sale of food products for consumption; examples: snowcones, taco stands, fruit markets.
Personal property means merchandise, wares, fabric, material, furniture, clothing, shoes, and other articles of commerce; provided, however that used personal property shall not include the sale of motorized vehicles or boats.
Vendor means a person who engages in the retail sale of personal property at a flea market.
Sec. 10-305. - Business registration.
Each vendor shall be required to obtain a business registration from the county clerk as provided in this chapter and to otherwise comply with all applicable provisions of this division.
Sec. 10-306. - Applicability to residents and nonresidents.
The prohibitions provided in this division shall apply to all persons, whether residents of the county, nonresidents of the county; residents of the state or nonresidents of the state.
Sec. 10-307. - Permitted exceptions.
(a)
The provisions of this division shall not apply to the sale by the producers of agricultural products within the state; provided, however, the producers shall fully comply with all regulations heretofore and hereafter prescribed by the board of commissioners and by any federal or state agency or department relative to the inspection and the sale of the products.
(b)
The provisions of this article shall not apply to sales made by dealers, traders, manufactures, merchants, or businesses at their established places of business.
(c)
The provisions of this article shall not apply to any sidewalk sale, flea market, art show, or arts and crafts show or other merchandise on the public sidewalks, walkways, or other open areas at the invitation of or as a part of the downtown promotional activities of the downtown development authority or an organization business registration to do business as a charity under state law.
(d)
The provisions of this division shall not apply to sales made by fruit or produce stands or sales of carnival-type products the as snowcones, cotton candy which are not normally sold by restaurants.
Sec. 10-308. - Exception for yard sales.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, yard sales by citizens are permissible and require no approval from any county department. Yard sales by one individual or family shall not be held more than 12 times during a calendar year. Any individual or family holding more than 12 yard sales in a calendar year shall be required to apply for and obtain a business registration.
Secs. 10-309—10-334. - Reserved.
