Chapter 46 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Parks, § 1.13(12).
Cross reference— Department of public works, § 2-126 et seq.
State Law reference— Parks authorized, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, par. III(a)(5).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 46-1. - Rules and regulations authorized.
The city manager of the city is authorized and directed to develop and publish rules and regulations for the use of all city parks, and to supplement and amend same from time to time, so long as such rules and regulations are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Code of the city. Each such rule or regulation shall bear the effective date thereof, and the violation thereof shall be a misdemeanor under this Code. Any such rules and regulations shall be presented to the city commission at the meeting next following the development, publishing, implementation, and effective date of such rules and regulations, for review. Upon commission review, any or all of such rules and regulations may be overruled by the commission, and upon such action, such rule or regulation is immediately revoked and repealed ab initio, and no later rule or regulation substantially similar therewith shall be permitted without express approval by the city commission.
(Ord. No. 04-08-03, 9-21-04)
Secs. 46-2—46-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Boards, commissions and authorities, § 2-301 et seq.

Sec. 46-26. - Composition, appointment, tenure.
The park and recreation board shall consist of five persons appointed by the commission for terms of five years each.
(Code 1987, § 3-803(1))
Sec. 46-27. - Vacancies.
Vacancies on the park and recreation board shall be filled by the commission for unexpired terms only.
(Code 1987, § 3-803(2))
Sec. 46-28. - Compensation.
The members of the park and recreation board shall serve without compensation.
(Code 1987, § 3-803(3))
Sec. 46-29. - Officers, rules of procedure.
Immediately after their appointment, the members of the park and recreation board shall meet and elect one of their members president and elect such other officers as may be necessary. The board shall recommend rules and regulations for adoption by the commission on the governance of its proceedings. Following any adoption, the park and recreation board members shall keep a correct record thereof.
(Code 1987, § 3-803(4))
Sec. 46-30. - Powers and duties.
The park and recreation board shall conduct and maintain recreation policies for the city in such a way as to employ the leisure of the people in a wholesome and constructive manner. In particular, it shall have the following responsibilities:
(1)
To plan public playgrounds, indoor recreation centers, leisure activities, recreation programs, and other recreational facilities owned or controlled by the city.
(2)
To recommend the setting aside, leasing or acquisition of lands or buildings within or without the city limits for use as parks, playgrounds, recreation centers, or for other recreational purposes, and to provide for the maintenance and improvement of such areas.
(3)
To cooperate with the local school board in the establishment, conduct and maintenance of a recreation system.
(4)
To submit a budget proposal annually to the city manager in the same manner as is required by department heads.
(5)
To submit an annual report to the city manager which shall include a financial statement of money received and expended and a description of all activities sponsored by the board during the year.
(6)
To exercise such other powers and duties as may be delegated to it from time to time by the manager following policy directives that may be adopted by the commission.
(Code 1987, § 3-803(5))
