CODE OF THE CITY OF HELEN, GEORGIA
modified
____________
Published in 1994 by Order of the City Commission
____________
Adopted July 19, 1994
Effective July 19, 1994
____________
OFFICIALS
of the
CITY OF
HELEN, GEORGIA
AT THE TIME OF THIS CODIFICATION
____________
Ralph Hofer
William Holtzclaw
Andrea Smith
Mike Vandegriff
Barbara Westmoreland
City Commission
____________
Kim A. Cox
City Manager
____________
Larry Fowler
City Attorney
____________
Janie Henderson
City Clerk
PREFACE
This Code constitutes a complete recodification of the general and permanent ordinances of the City of Helen, Georgia.
Source materials used in the preparation of the Code were the 1987 Code, which code was current through August 11, 1987, and ordinances subsequently adopted by the city commission. The source of each section is included in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence of such a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted for the first time with the adoption of the Code. By use of the comparative tables appearing in the back of this Code, the reader can locate any section of the 1987 Code and any subsequent ordinance included herein.
The chapters of the Code have been conveniently arranged in alphabetical order, and the various sections within each chapter have been catchlined to facilitate usage. Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and which refer to relevant state law have been included. A table listing the state law citations and setting forth their location within the Code is included at the back of this Code.
Chapter and Section Numbering System
The chapter and section numbering system used in this Code is the same system used in many state and local government codes. Each section number consists of two parts separated by a dash. The figure before the dash refers to the chapter number, and the figure after the dash refers to the position of the section within the chapter. Thus, the second section of chapter 1 is numbered 1-2, and the first section of chapter 4 is 4-1. Under this system, each section is identified with its chapter, and at the same time new sections or even whole chapters can be inserted in their proper place by using the decimal system for amendments. For example, if new material consisting of one section that would logically come between sections 3-1 and 3-2 is desired to be added, such new section would be numbered 3-1.5. New chapters may be included by using one of the reserved chapter numbers. Care should be taken that the alphabetical arrangement of chapters is maintained when including new chapters. New articles and new divisions may be included in the same way or, in the case of articles, may be placed at the end of the chapter embracing the subject, and, in the case of divisions, may be placed at the end of the article embracing the subject. The next successive number shall be assigned to the new article or division.
Page Numbering System
The page numbering system used in this Code is a prefix system. The letters to the left of the colon are an abbreviation which represents a certain portion of the volume. The number to the right of the colon represents the number of the page in that portion. In the case of a chapter of the Code, the number to the left of the colon indicates the number of the chapter. In the case of an appendix to the Code, the letter immediately to the left of the colon indicates the letter of the appendix.
EXPAND
CHARTER CHT:1
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE CHTCT:1
CODE CD1:1
CODE APPENDIX CDA:1
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLES CCT:1
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE SLT:1
CHARTER INDEX CHTi:1
CODE INDEX CDi:1
  Indexes
The indexes have been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular item has been placed under several headings, some of which are couched in lay phraseology, others in legal terminology, and still others in language generally used by local government officials and employees. There are numerous cross references within the indexes themselves which stand as guideposts to direct the user to the particular item in which the user is interested.
Looseleaf Supplements
A special feature of this publication is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental servicing of the publication. With this system, the publication will be kept up-to-date. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly edited, and the appropriate page or pages affected will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to holders of copies of the publication, with instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the obsolete pages.
Keeping this publication up-to-date at all times will depend largely upon the holder of the publication. As revised sheets are received, it will then become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended by the publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be saved and filed for historical reference purposes.
Acknowledgments
This publication was under the direct supervision of Roger Merriam, Supervising Editor, and Laura Johnson, Editor, of the Municipal Code Corporation, Tallahassee, Florida. Credit is gratefully given to the other members of the publisher's staff for their sincere interest and able assistance throughout the project.
The publisher is most grateful to Mr. James B. Whitford, Jr., former City Manager, and Mr. Kim A. Cox, the current City Manager, for their cooperation and assistance during the progress of the work on this publication. It is hoped that their efforts and those of the publisher have resulted in a Code of Ordinances which will make the active law of the city readily accessible to all citizens and which will be a valuable tool in the day-to-day administration of the city's affairs.
EXPAND
MUNICIPAL CODE CORPORATION
Tallahassee, Florida
  ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 94-03-01
An Ordinance adopting and enacting a new Code for the City of Helen, Georgia providing for the repeal of certain Ordinances not included therein; providing a penalty for the violation thereof; providing for the manner of amending such Code; and providing when such Code and this Ordinance shall become effective.
The Helen City Commission, the governing authority of the City of Helen hereby ordains:
Section 1. The Code entitled "Code of the City of Helen, Georgia, published by Municipal Code Corporation consisting of Chapters 1 through 70, each inclusive, is adopted.
Section 2. All Ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or before September 14, 1993, and not included in the Code or recognized and continued in force by reference therein, are repealed.
Section 3. The repeal provided for in Section 2 hereof shall not be construed to revive any Ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent Ordinance that is repealed by this Ordinance.
Section 4. Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of the Code or any Ordinance, rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500.00, imprisonment for a term not exceeding 30 days, or both or labor for the City on the streets, sidewalks or other public places for a period not exceeding 60 days. Each act of violation and each day upon which any such violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided shall apply to the amendment of any Code section whether or not such penalty is reenacted in the amendatory Ordinance. In addition to the penalty prescribed above, the City may pursue other remedies such as abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief, and revocation of licenses or permits.
Section 5. Additions or amendments to the Code when passed in the form as to indicate the intention of the City to make the same part of the Code shall be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to the Code includes the additions and amendments.
Section 6. Ordinances adopted after September 14, 1993 that amend or refer to Ordinances that have been codified in the Code, shall be construed as if they amend or refer to like provisions of the Code.
Section 7. The following sections of the "Code of the City of Helen, Georgia" published by Municipal Code Corporation, consisting of Chapters 1 through 70, shall be amended to incorporate therein the following revisions:
(1)
The first sentence of Section 34-52.a., entitled Membership, shall hereby read as follows: "The Planning and Design Review Board shall be comprised of seven (7) members appointed by the City Commission."
(2)
The first sentence of Section 34-56, entitled Staff Advisor, shall hereby read as follows: "The City Manager or his designee shall serve in an advisory capacity to the Planning and Design Review Board."
(3)
In Chapter 38, Law Enforcement, there is hereby inserted the following Section 38-32, to be entitled Entering Private Dwellings, and is to read as follows: "No police officer shall enter a private dwelling without a search or arrest warrant unless in pursuit of a fugitive of whom the officer has personal knowledge or if the officer has probable cause to believe the suspected offender has committed or attempted to commit a felony, or under such other facts and circumstances authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia and the United States."
(4)
Section 2-50.(1)., entitled Ordinances, resolutions, contracts and interlocal agreements, shall hereby read as follows: "Preparation. No ordinance shall be prepared for presentation to the commission unless ordered by a majority vote of the commission, requested in writing by the mayor, or prepared by the city manager on his own initiative. All ordinances shall be approved as to form by the city attorney prior to final adoption by the City Commission."
Section 8. This Ordinance shall become effective upon adoption.
Passed and adopted this 19th day of July, 1994.
EXPAND
/s/
      J. Michael Vandegriff, Mayor
    EXPAND
/s/
      Janie N. Henderson, City Clerk
    First Reading: April 19, 1994
Second Reading: July 19, 1994
Passed: July 19, 1994
This ordinance approved as to form:
EXPAND
/s/
      Larry Fowler, City Attorney
     
19 July 1994            

      Date
