Chapter 36 - UTILITIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Telecommunications, ch. 33.
State Law reference— Public utilities generally, O.C.G.A. § 46-1-1 et seq.; water resources, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-1 et seq.; public water systems, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-170 et seq.; water supply, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-470; sewage and waste disposal, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-29 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 36-1. - Scope of chapter.
All pertinent provisions of this chapter are made a part of the terms and conditions whereby the city shall furnish any utility service to any person, or whereby the city shall make any utility connections or perform any work of any kind in connection with the furnishing of any utility connections or perform any work of any kind in connection with the furnishing of any utility service pursuant to any rules and regulations promulgated by the mayor or his designee, including, but not limited to, the city's Standard Specification for Water Distribution and Sanitary Sewer Systems.
Sec. 36-2. - Service to comply with technical provisions.
Any utility service furnished under the provisions of this chapter shall be in accordance with and in compliance with all applicable technical provisions of this chapter, state law and city ordinances, rules and regulations.
Sec. 36-3. - Rules and regulations.
The mayor or his designee shall have the authority to establish by rule or regulation such standards and specifications as may be deemed necessary for the installation, construction and maintenance of any utility service system owned and operated by the city within or without the city and under the management of the city. Such rules, regulations, standards and specifications, including, but not limited to, the Standard Specification for Water Distribution and Sanitary Sewer Systems, shall be filed in the office of the city clerk. Violation of such rules, regulations, standards and specifications shall be punished, upon conviction, in accordance with section 1-13.
Sec. 36-4. - Standard specifications adopted.
(a)
A document entitled "Standard Specification for Water Distribution and Sanitary Sewer Systems," revised January 6, 2006, is hereby adopted as the required specifications to be used in any and all projects or construction, residential and commercial, either located within the city limits, or to be tied to, or otherwise connected to, the city water or sewer systems, or through which city water or sewer services are to be provided to a city customer.
(b)
No other specifications, plan or engineering is to be used in any other project without the express approval of the mayor or his designee upon the recommendation of the water superintendent and the city engineer.
(c)
No city services shall be provided to any customer unless said customer's project is built and operated in conformity with these standard specifications.
(d)
This document may be amended from time to time by action of the city council and is available for public examination during normal working hours in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 0096, 9-5-2006)
Sec. 36-5. - Service outside the city.
In order to protect the utility service supply, the city will not make any taps or connections outside the city limits until the premises involved have been inspected and approved by the city. Utility service shall not be provided to persons or groups outside the city limits except on the basis of a written contract approved by the mayor or his designee.
Sec. 36-6. - Right of entry.
Any authorized inspector of the city shall have free access at any reasonable time to go upon the land of all premises supplied with any utility service by the city for the purpose of examination in order to protect the utility services from abusive use.
Sec. 36-7. - Termination or refusal of service; notice.
(a)
The city shall have the right to disconnect or refuse to connect or reconnect any utility service for the following nonexclusive reasons:
(1)
Failure to meet the applicable provisions of law.
(2)
Violation of the rules and regulations pertaining to utility service.
(3)
Nonpayment of any bill, fee, cost or penalty.
(4)
Willful or negligent waste of any utility service due to improper or imperfect pipes, fixtures, appliances or otherwise.
(5)
Molesting any meter, seal or other equipment controlling or regulating the supply of utility service.
(6)
Theft or diversion and/or use of any utility service without payment therefor.
(7)
Vacancy of premises.
(b)
Except in the case of emergencies, the city shall attempt to provide notice to the customer as to the reason for the termination or refusal of service, and provide a reasonable time for the customer to respond. Upon receipt of any response, the mayor or his designee will have the discretion to resume or provide the service, but in no event will any such service continue until the customer pays all fees and costs owing in connection with the service. The city reserves the right to cut off any utility service without notice in case of emergencies. When an interruption in service is necessary for the maintenance and improvement of the utility system, affected customers will be notified as circumstances permit.
Sec. 36-8. - Liability of city for damage.
The city shall not be liable for any damage to any customer of any utility service furnished by the city due to backflow of the sewerage system, failure of supply, interruption of service or any other cause outside the direct control of the city.
Sec. 36-9. - Application for service.
Any person desiring any utility service furnished by the city shall make application for such service to the mayor or his designee. The application is available in the office of the city clerk and on the city's website.
Sec. 36-10. - Debt to city.
The city may decline or fail or cease to furnish utility service to any person who may be in debt to the city for any reason, except ad valorem taxes and special assessments.
Sec. 36-11. - Approval.
Approval of the application for any utility service by the mayor or his designee shall be deemed permission for such service.
Sec. 36-12. - Use assumed.
All premises connected to any utility service of the city shall be assumed to be using such utility service and the owner or occupant shall be charged therefor, so long as such premises remain connected with the utility service.
Sec. 36-13. - Trespass and equipment damage.
It shall be unlawful for any person not having authority to do so, to open any hydrant or tamper with any utility service furnished by the city to consumers, or to, in any other way, molest, damage or trespass upon any equipment or premises belonging to the city connected with any utility service.
Sec. 36-14. - Restricting use.
The city reserves the right to, at any time, restrict or prevent the use of any utility service furnished by the city during periods of emergency or circumstances demanding such restriction or prevention of use.
Sec. 36-15. - Sale of service by customer.
It shall be unlawful for any person to resell any utility service obtained from the city to others except by special arrangement with the mayor or his designee.
Sec. 36-16. - Service connections.
(a)
Supervision. Connections for any utility service furnished by the city shall be made under the supervision of the mayor or his designee.
(b)
Owner's consent. It shall be unlawful for any person to make any connection in any manner to any utility system, whether owned by the city or not, without the prior knowledge and consent of the owner of such utility system.
Sec. 36-17. - Unlawful use.
No person, other than employees of the city or those designated by the mayor, shall be authorized to connect, turn on, turn off or disconnect any utility service offered by the city, or remove, replace or repair any equipment connected to any such utility service.
Sec. 36-18. - Maintenance of equipment by consumer.
The consumer of any utility service furnished by the city shall maintain and keep in good repair all connections, appliances and other apparatus installed and used in connection with such utility service.
Sec. 36-19. - Rates, fees and costs.
All rates, fees and costs associated with water and sewer services, both inside and outside of the city, shall be determined from time to time by action of the city council and set out in the city's consolidated fee schedule.
Sec. 36-20. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2020-10-02 , § 1, adopted October 15, 2020, repealed § 36-20, which pertained to sewer service outside city limits and derived from Ord. No. 2020-03-01 , adopted April 7, 2020.
Sec. 36-21. - Agreement required for connection to force main.
Notwithstanding and in addition to any other requirements of this Code, no person shall connect to the city's sewer system by connection to a force main, unless and until that person executes a written contract approved by the mayor or his designee. Any connection to a force main obtained or provided without a written contract approved by the mayor or his designee shall be disconnected until a written contract is executed.
( Ord. No. 2021-10-01 , § 1, 11-9-2021)
Secs. 36-21—36-42. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WATER SERVICE

Sec. 36-43. - Grease management program; sand and oil/grease interceptors.
(a)
Requirement.
(1)
Except where more complete pretreatment may be required, all users involved in the preparation of food for commercial purposes, including, but not limited to, restaurants, commercial kitchens, schools where meals are prepared, hospitals and nursing homes shall provide oil/grease and/or sand interceptors or traps. Grease traps shall be designed as appropriate for the size of the facility as specified in subsection (b) of this section.
(2)
Additionally, any user who generates a wastewater which contains greater than 100 mg/l of fats, oils and grease, and provided that the excess fats, oil and grease is floatable and can be effectively removed in an oil/grease interceptor or trap, then said user will be required to install a grease/oil interceptor or trap. All interceptors or traps shall be designed as specified in subsection (b) of this section.
(3)
Other users, including, but not limited to, service stations, car washes, laundries, and any facility where oily or flammable waste are produced, and all other users covered by the city's duly adopted plumbing code, and shall install oil separators and other such devices as provided in said plumbing code or the city's standard specifications for the construction of water and sewer. All installed devices shall be designed as specified with subsection (b) of this section.
(4)
All users whose wastewater stream is associated with unusually large quantities or grit, sand or gravel shall be required to install a sand trap. All car/truck wash systems shall be required to install a sand trap and design and installation shall be approved by the city.
(5)
The requirements of this section shall not apply to private living quarters or dwelling units.
(b)
Design criteria.
(1)
For restaurants and other eating establishments. All oil/grease interceptors used in conjunction with restaurants, commercial kitchens, schools, hospitals, nursing homes and the like shall comply with detail S24 and S25 of the city's standard specifications for the construction of water and sewer mains.
(2)
For facilities other than eating establishments. All sand and oil/grease interceptors and oil separators shall be sized, located and constructed in accordance with the provisions of the duly adopted state plumbing code where such parameters have not been otherwise set forth herein or in the standard specifications for construction of water and sewer mains.
(c)
Maintenance.
(1)
All grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be maintained by the user at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
(2)
In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material, and shall maintain records of the dates, and means of disposal which are subject to review by the city. All manifests or other records of removal shall be provided to the city on a monthly basis, and shall be provided to the code enforcement officer. The frequency of removal shall be such as to ensure that no overflows of oil, grease or sand into the wastewater system ever results. The frequency for maintaining these interceptors shall, at the minimum, be as follows based on the classifications listed, or as often as needed to maintain a detention capacity of the unit of at least 75 percent:
EXPAND
Class Description of User Grease Trap
Pumping Frequency*
I Food establishments with an under-the-counter grease trap Monthly
II Food establishments with an in-ground grease trap of at least 1,500 gallons and serving less than 100 customers in a 24-hour day Four times/year
III Food establishments with an in-ground grease trap of at least 1,500 gallons and serving 100 customers to 250 customers in a 24-hour day Four times/year
IV Food establishments with an in-ground grease trap of at least 1,500 gallons and serving more than 250 customers in a 24-hour day Monthly
* The utilities director may, in writing or verbally, increase or decrease a user's grease trap pumping frequency on a case-by-case basis based on actual observation of material buildup in the grease trap.
  (d)
Proper disposal of collected materials. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed by the owner's employees must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms. Under no circumstances shall the collected materials ever be returned to the wastewater system. Pumping requires the complete removal of the entire contents of the trap with no reintroduction of any portion of the waste into the trap. The city may seek additional enforcement action under O.C.G.A. § 12-8-2.
(e)
Program manual. The city is authorized to develop polices, forms, applications, procedures, fees not to exceed those necessary to recover program costs, best management practices, and any other documents necessary for the implementation, administration and enforcement of the grease management program. A violator may be issued a citation to appear in the municipal court of the city, although such citation shall not be the exclusive remedy of the city, and the city may seek enforcement through other means. Any existing ordinance in conflict herewith is hereby repealed.
(Ord. No. 2017-17, § 1, 8-1-2017)
