ARTICLE VII. - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS[7]
Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
State Law reference— Regional development centers, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-31 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-446. - Review of boards and commissions.
The Mayor and City Council shall quadrennially review all established boards and commissions. In the event that the Mayor and City Council, after such review, find that a particular board or commission no longer serves a useful purpose, such board or commission shall be abolished.
(Code 1978, § 2-176)
Sec. 2-447. - Liberty Consolidated Planning Commission.
See the zoning ordinance of the City that creates and establishes the Liberty Consolidated Planning Commission to succeed to the general powers, duties and responsibilities of the former Liberty County Joint Planning Commission and the former City of Hinesville Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Code 1978, § 2-226; Ord. No. 2004-11, § 1, 12-16-2004)
State Law reference— Authority to adopt plans and exercise the power of zoning, Ga. Const. art. 9, § 2, ¶ 4; the Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.; local government zoning powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-2; conflicts of interests in zoning actions, O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-1 et seq.; effect of zoning laws on covenants running with the land, O.C.G.A. § 44-5-60.
Secs. 2-448—2-477. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BEAUTIFICATION-CLEAN COMMUNITY COMMISSION

Sec. 2-478. - Established.
In conjunction with the County there is hereby established the Liberty County-City of Hinesville Beautification-Clean Community Commission.
(Code 1978, § 2-251)
Sec. 2-479. - Duties.
The duties of the Commission established in this division shall be:
(1)
To promote public interest in the general improvement of the environment of the City and the County;
(2)
To initiate, plan, direct and coordinate programs for litter control for the community on a sustainable basis;
(3)
To implement and maintain the clean community system;
(4)
To study, investigate and develop plans for improving the health, sanitation, safety, and cleanliness of the City and the County by beautifying the streets, highways, alleys, river and stream banks, lots, yards and other similar places in the City and County;
(5)
To aid in the prevention of fires, diseases and other casualties by the removal and elimination of trash and other debris from the streets, highways, alleys, lots, yards, plots and other similar places;
(6)
To encourage the placing, planting and/or preservation of trees, flowers, plants, shrubbery and other objects or ornamentation in said City and County;
(7)
To protect song birds and other wildfowl;
(8)
To advise and recommend plans to other agencies of the City and County for the beautification of the City and County; and
(9)
Otherwise to promote public interest in the general improvement of the environment of the City and the County; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed to abridge or change the powers and duties of other commissions, departments, boards and like agencies of the City and the County.
(Code 1978, § 2-252)
Sec. 2-480. - Powers.
In order to perform the foregoing duties, the Commission established in this division shall have the following authority:
(1)
To adopt by-laws to facilitate the attainment of its purpose and functions;
(2)
To initiate, plan, direct and coordinate community wide efforts to achieve its goals;
(3)
To solicit and accept donations and appropriations of money, services, products, property and facilities for expenditure and use by the Commission for the accomplishment of its objects;
(4)
To employ, to pay and to terminate the employment of such staff as may be required for the fulfillment of Commission purposes; and
(5)
To make recommendations to City and County governing bodies as well as to the private sector regarding measures which it deems necessary to accomplish its objectives.
(Code 1978, § 2-253)
Sec. 2-481. - Membership.
(a)
The Commission established in this division shall consist of no more than 24 members who shall be residents of the City or the County and who shall serve without remuneration. Three-fourths (18) of such members shall be appointed by the City Council; and one-fourth (six) members shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of the County.
(b)
In addition to the appointed members of the Commission, the Mayor of Hinesville, the Chairperson of the Liberty County Board of Commissioners and the president of the Hinesville-Liberty County Chamber of Commerce shall serve as ex-officio members of the Commission.
(Code 1978, § 2-254)
Sec. 2-482. - Terms of office of members.
The terms of office of the members of the Commission established in this division shall generally be for three years each; provided, that as to the 24 initial members selected by each governing body the terms of all members shall be staggered for a period of three years each, with each governing body appointing four members each year with terms expiring on October 31. Members whose terms have expired shall continue as members until their successors shall have been appointed.
(Code 1978, § 2-255)
Sec. 2-483. - Election of officers.
The Commission established in this division shall elect from its membership a Chairperson and such other officers as may be desired. Officers shall be elected on a calendar year basis but may be reelected for succeeding terms.
(Code 1978, § 2-256)
Sec. 2-484. - Management of funds.
(a)
The Commission established in this division shall have the power to receive and disburse funds within the limitations of appropriations, gifts and grants which have been previously approved jointly by the City and the County, and in connection with projects or undertakings previously approved under the terms of section 2-479. Within the same limitation, the Commission shall be empowered to contract with any private or public agency to the extent required for its proper operation. The Commission, on March 31, and September 30, of each year, shall report to the City and County its actions in connection with each project or undertaking, and shall include as part of its report, a statement of its receipts and disbursements, from whatever source and to every object, for the preceding six months. Additionally, upon the completion of each project or undertaking, the Commission shall make a complete report to the City and County with respect to such project or undertaking, showing the action in connection therewith and any funds received or expended in its behalf. The Commission shall keep such records as will enable it to make such reports and accountings, and the same shall be subject to verification and examination by auditors of the City and/or County.
(b)
Any project or undertaking begun by the Commission shall be terminated at any time upon the decision of either the Mayor and City Council or the County Board of Commissioners of the County that the continuance thereof is not in the public interest.
(Code 1978, § 2-257)
Sec. 2-485. - Compensation.
All of the members of the Commission established in this division shall serve without pay.
(Code 1978, § 2-258)
Secs. 2-486—2-508. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF HINESVILLE

Sec. 2-509. - Declaration of need; purpose; activation; director; organization.
(a)
Declaration of need; purpose. There is hereby determined and declared to be a pressing, existing and future need for a development authority, as more fully described and defined in the Development Authorities Law(O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.), to function in the City for the purpose of developing and promoting for the public good and general welfare, trade, commerce, industry and employment opportunities in said City thereby promoting the general welfare to the citizenry.
(b)
Activation. There is hereby activated in the City the public body corporate and politic known as the "Development Authority of Hinesville" which was created upon the adoption and approval of the Development Authorities Law (O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.) and particularly O.C.G.A. § 36-62-4.
(c)
Directors. There are hereby elected seven members of the first Board of Directors of the Development Authority the named persons, each of whom is a taxpayer of the City and none of whom is an officer or employee of the City; to serve for staggered terms of four years. If at the end of any term of office of any Director, a successor thereto shall not have been elected, then the Director whose term of office shall have expired shall continue to hold office until his successor shall be so elected.
(d)
Organization. The Board of Directors shall organize itself, carry out its duties and responsibilities and exercise its powers and prerogatives in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Development Authorities Law (O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.) as it now exists and as it might hereafter be amended or modified.
(Code 1978, § 2-273)
Secs. 2-510—2-526. - Reserved.
