ARTICLE III. - CODE OF ETHICS FOR CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Governmental ethics, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-96. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
City official means any person who is an elected official of the City of Hinesville.
Employee means any person who is a full-time or part-time employee of the City of Hinesville.
Government or City means the City of Hinesville, Georgia government.
Immediate family means the employee or City official, spouse and children of said parties.
Private business means any business that employs or is owned by a City official or employee.
(Code 1978, § 2-1; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-97. - Acceptance of gifts.
With the exception of campaign contributions which shall be reported in accordance with Georgia Laws, no City official shall solicit or accept directly or indirectly anything of value from any person, corporation, or group which:
(1)
Has, or is seeking to obtain, contractual or other business or financial relationships with the City of Hinesville;
(2)
Seeks to have a City official exercise a matter of discretion in his favor;
(3)
Seeks to have interests which may be affected by the performance or nonperformance of the official duty of the City official; or
(4)
Has the appearance to influence a City official in the performance of the official's duties.
(Code 1978, § 2-1.1; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-98. - Intent.
It is the intent of this article that City officials avoid any action or inaction whether or not specifically prohibited by section 2-97 which might result in, or create the appearance of:
(1)
Using public office for private financial, business, social or fraternal gain;
(2)
Impeding government efficiency or economy;
(3)
Adversely affecting the confidence of the public in the integrity of the government; or
(4)
Purposefully or intentionally violating laws involving moral turpitude as defined by Georgia law.
(Code 1978, § 2-1.2; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-99. - Financial interests of members.
City officials may not:
(1)
Have direct or indirect financial interests that conflict substantially with their responsibilities and duties as government servants; or
(2)
Engage in, directly or indirectly, financial transactions as a result of, or primarily relying upon, information obtained from their office. Aside from these restrictions, City officials are free to engage in lawful financial transactions to the same extent as private citizens.
(Code 1978, § 2-1.3; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-100. - Use of public property.
A City official shall not use City government property of any kind for any purpose other than officially approved activities, nor direct employees to use such property for any purpose other than officially approved activities.
(Code 1978, § 2-1.4; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-101. - Use of confidential information.
A City official shall not directly or indirectly, make use of, or permit others to make use of, for the purpose of furthering a private interest, official information not made available to the general public.
(Code 1978, § 2-1.5; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-102. - Coercion by City official.
A City official shall not use his position in any way to coerce, or give the appearance of coercing, another person, business, entity or group by providing any benefit to them or persons within his immediate family, or those with whom an official has business or financial ties or social ties.
(Code 1978, § 2-1.6; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-103. - Voting in matters of personal interest.
A City official shall not vote on an ordinance, amendment, or resolution in a meeting that would directly affect his private business interests or property interests; nor such interests of his immediate family.
(Code 1978, § 2-1.7; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-104. - Unauthorized purchases.
A City official shall not order any goods and services for the City nor obligate City funds for such payment, without prior official authorization for such expenditure.
(Code 1978, § 2-1.8; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-105. - Meetings of the Council.
Meetings of the Council shall be conducted in accordance with the O.C.G.A., title 50, ch. 14 (O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.).
(Code 1978, § 2-1.9; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-106. - City Attorneys used for private business.
A City official shall not use the Attorney or Attorneys who are under retainer by the City for personal or private business without paying the Attorney just compensation.
(Code 1978, § 2-1.10; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-107. - Unauthorized use of public employees.
A City official shall not use his superior position to request or require a City employee to:
(1)
Do clerical work on behalf of his family, business, social, church or fraternal interests;
(2)
Purchase goods and services to be used for personal, business, or political purposes;
(3)
Personally work for them without offering just compensation; and/or
(4)
Perform work allegedly for the benefit of the City without prior official authorization.
(Code 1978, § 2-1.11; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-108. - Travel expenses.
A City official shall not draw per diem or expense monies from the City of Hinesville to attend a seminar, convention, or conference only to fail to attend the seminar, convention, or conference without refunding the pro rata unused per diem or expense monies to the City.
(Code 1978, § 2-1.12; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-109. - Penalties.
The code of ethics to be observed by City officials and employees are set forth herein, and any violation thereof shall subject the offender to disciplinary action that may include censure and public or private reprimand. Power to administer a greater punishment shall include power to administer the lesser. Further, in cases involving intentional acts, the general penalties of section 1-12 of the Code of the City of Hinesville, Georgia may be used as disciplinary action for violations of this Code.
(Code 1978, § 2-1.13; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-110. - City credit card policy.
(a)
Overview. The Georgia General Assembly enacted guidelines and penalties into the Official Code of Georgia Annotated ("O.C.G.A."), which provides that no municipal corporation shall issue government credit cards to elected officials on or after January 1, 2016, until the governing authority of the municipal corporation, by public vote, has authorized the issuance and has promulgated specific policies regarding the use of such government credit cards for elected officials of such municipal corporation.
(b)
Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to set requirements and standards for the City credit card program. The policy is not intended to replace current state statutes but is intended to comply with such state laws and establish more efficient guidelines for elected officials using such credit cards. At no time should a City-issued credit card ("City credit card") be used for personal purchases regardless of the circumstances. Utilizing the City credit card for personal use or for any item or service not directly related to such official's public duty may result in disciplinary action including, but not limited to, felony criminal prosecution. All purchases utilizing a City credit card must be in accordance with these guidelines and with state law.
(c)
Scope. This credit card policy, as required by state law under O.C.G.A. § 36-80-24(c), applies to the use of City credit cards by elected officials authorized to be issued or to be utilized such City credit cards. The Mayor and City Council have been authorized by the governing authority of the City to use such City credit cards and must abide by all of the applicable state laws and this credit card policy.
(d)
Public inspection. In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-80-24(b), any documents related to purchases using City credit cards incurred by elected officials shall be available for public inspection.
(e)
Transaction limits. Transaction limits are hereby established to ensure compliance with state purchasing laws, maintain proper budgetary controls, and to minimize excessive use of any individual credit line. Monthly credit card transaction limits for the Mayor and City Council cannot exceed those established by the municipal governing authority. The established monthly transaction limit for the Mayor is based upon the City's budgetary constraints and is not to exceed $7,500.00 per month. The established monthly transaction limit for each City Council member is based upon the City's budgetary constraints and is not to exceed $1,500.00 per month. Any exceptions to the standardized limits must have express written approval by the municipal governing authority and must be added to this policy by amendment or addendum.
(f)
Purchasing restrictions.
(1)
Elected officials may not use a City credit card for the following:
a.
Any purchases of items for personal use.
b.
Cash refunds or advances.
c.
Any transaction amount greater than the transaction limits set by this policy.
d.
Items specifically restricted by this policy, unless a special exemption is granted by the municipal governing authority.
e.
Alcohol or liquor of any kind. Such purchases should not be made with the credit card and may not be reimbursed by the City.
f.
Purchases or transactions made with the intent to circumvent the City credit card policy, transactional limits, or state law.
g.
Sharing the credit card or card account number with unauthorized users. This restriction shall not include providing the credit card or card account number to authorized merchants for the purpose of making and confirming reservations for accommodations and rental car usage, or other such purposes.
(2)
Elected officials may use City credit cards to purchase goods and/or services not prohibited by this policy or state law. Such purchases include, but are not limited to:
a.
Purchases of items for official City use which fall within the transactional restrictions of this policy.
b.
Purchases of travel expenses while on City business, including but not limited to, lodging, fuel, food, non-alcoholic beverages, or education and training materials.
c.
Emergency purchases necessary to protect City property.
(g)
Ownership and cancellation of the credit card. The City credit card remains property of the issuing company. It may not be transferred to, assigned to, or used by anyone other than an authorized user of the City. Users of the credit card are accountable for the activity on the card. Users of the credit card may not make a copy of and/or keep a copy of the credit card for any purpose. Users of the credit card shall turn in the original detailed/itemized receipts for charges made while the card was in his/her possession. The issuer or the City may suspend or cancel user privileges at any time for any reason. If the user is in possession of a card, the user will surrender the credit card upon request to the City or to any authorized agent of the issuer.
(h)
Lost or stolen credit cards. If a credit card is lost or stolen, contact the City Finance Department immediately, who will make contact with the issuer and take the appropriate steps to protect the account from unauthorized purchases.
(i)
Administrator. The City designates the Chief Financial Officer for the city as the program administrator of City credit cards. Such administrator shall:
(1)
Serve as a liaison between the City's cardholders and the issuers of such cards.
(2)
Maintain the cardholder agreement for all cardholders.
(3)
Provide instruction, training, and assistance to cardholders.
(4)
Maintain account information and secure all cardholder information.
(5)
Keep cardholders up-to-date on new or changing information.
(6)
Upon receipt of information indicating fraudulent use or lost/stolen cards, immediately report it to appropriate parties, including the issuer.
(7)
Ensure all card accounts are being utilized properly as set forth by state law and this policy.
(8)
Define the City's policy and procedures for proper documentation and storage of receipts, logs, and approvals required under this policy. Users of the credit card shall turn in the original detailed/itemized receipts for charges made while the card was in his/her possession.
(9)
Identify any changes to named persons authorized to use a City credit card.
(10)
Any other duties assigned by the municipal governing authority.
(j)
Accounting and auditing. The Administrator, in an effort to ensure compliance with City policy and state law, will conduct semi-annual reviews and audits of all city credit card transactions. The review is designed to ensure compliance, identify non-compliance issues and misuse, and through corrective measures assist the city with improving compliance. The semi-annual reviews and audits should happen within 14 days of the start of a new six month period. After completing the semi-annual audit the Administrator shall notify cardholders of any violations or questions the Administrator has that occurred within that previous month/quarter. Depending on the severity of the violation, the Administrator may suspend or revoke the use of the City credit card after notification to the cardholder and to the municipal governing authority, but only after consultation with the City attorney. Any unresolved violations should be reported to the municipal governing authority and the City attorney in writing within 14 business days.
(k)
Violations. The authorized use of a City credit card may be suspended or revoked when the Administrator, after consultation with the City attorney, determines that the cardholder has violated the approved policies or state law regarding the use of the City credit card. The City credit card shall be revoked whenever a cardholder is removed from office with the City and shall be suspended if such elected official has been suspended from office.
(l)
Agreement. Before being issued a City credit card under this policy and state law, all authorized users of City credit cards shall sign an agreement indicating that such user will use such cards only in accordance with the policies and ordinances of the City and with the requirements of state law.
(Ord. No. 2015-06, § 1, 1-7-2016)
Secs. 2-111—2-131. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 2-132. - Ethics committee.
The ethics committee shall consist of five members appointed by the Council. All members shall be residents of the City of Hinesville and shall serve a two-year term.
(Code 1978, § 2-6; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-133. - Receipt of complaints.
(a)
All complaints against City officials shall be filed with the ethics committee. The ethics committee may require that oral complaints, and complaints illegibly or informally drawn, be reduced to a memorandum of complaint in such form as may be prescribed by the City Council. A copy of any filed complaint shall be forwarded to the person against whom the complaint is filed.
(b)
Upon receipt of a complaint in proper form, the ethics committee shall review and investigate it to determine whether the complaint is justified, frivolous, patently unfounded or fails to state facts sufficient to invoke the disciplinary jurisdiction of the City Council.
(c)
The ethics committee shall be empowered to conduct investigations through hearings, by subpoenaing parties, and collecting evidence and information concerning any complaint.
(d)
Upon completion of its investigation of a complaint, the ethics committee shall be empowered to document its findings and dismiss those complaints which are frivolous, patently unfounded or which fail to state facts sufficient to invoke the disciplinary jurisdiction of the City Council; provided, however, that a rejection of such complaint by the ethics committee shall not deprive the complaining party of any action he might otherwise have at law or in equity against the respondent government servant.
(e)
The ethics committee shall be empowered to adopt forms for formal complaints, subpoenas, notices, applications for reinstatement and any other written instruments necessary or desirable under these rules.
(f)
Should the committee determine after a hearing that disciplinary action is warranted, it shall make written findings and recommendations to the City Council.
(g)
The official against whom a complaint is filed may present evidence to the ethics committee and/or City Council concerning any alleged complaints. The final disciplinary decision and/or penalties shall only be determined after a hearing and opportunity to present evidence.
(h)
Employees who are charged with violation of the code of ethics will be given due process according to the City's personnel policies and procedures.
(Code 1978, § 2-6.1; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-134. - Additional regulations.
This chapter shall be cumulative to any other ordinance, resolution or act now existing.
(Code 1978, § 2-6.2; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-135. - Right to appeal.
Any final decision by the City Council pursuant to this Code shall be reviewable by the Superior Court of Liberty County. The review by the Superior Court shall be limited to whether there was evidence to support the decision of the City Council; provided however, the City Council's refusal or failure to take action pursuant to this Code shall not be reviewable by the Superior Court.
(Code 1978, § 2-6.3; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-136. - Conflict of interest.
No elected official, appointed officer, or employee of the City or any agency or political entity to which this chapter applies shall engage in any business or transaction or have a financial or personal interest, direct or indirect, which interferes with the proper discharge of or impairs his judgment or action in the performance of their official duties.
(Code 1978, § 2-6.4; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Secs. 2-137—2-155. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CONFLICT OF INTEREST, POLITICAL ACTIVITIES AND CODE OF ETHICS

Sec. 2-156. - Acceptance of gifts, gratuities, special privileges.
(a)
Employees and City officials shall not accept any gifts, loans, rewards, favors, or services that may reasonably tend to improperly influence them in the discharge of their official duties. This limitation is not intended to prohibit the acceptance of articles of negligible value that are distributed generally nor to prohibit loans from regular institutions. It is particularly important that employees and officials guard against relationships that might be construed as or give the appearance of favoritism, coercion, unfair advantage or collusion.
(b)
City officials and employees shall not use or attempt to use, knowledge obtained by or through their employment or by virtue of their position, to secure an economic benefit or advantage, special privilege or exemption for themselves or others.
(c)
City officials and employees shall not accept employment or engage in any business or professional activity which they may reasonably expect would require or induce them to disclose confidential information acquired by them by reason of their official position.
(d)
Employees shall not accept payments from outside sources for professional services (i.e., teaching, instructing, speaking engagements, consulting, honorariums) when such activities are done on City time or when such services pertain to the purchase or sale of City property.
(Code 1978, § 2-11; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-157. - Proprietorship of creations.
All plans, designs, reports, specifications, drawings, devices, inventions, and other items produced or created by employees during working hours or through the use of City facilities or equipment or at the request of the City shall be and become the sole property of the City.
(Code 1978, § 2-12; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-158. - Confidential information.
City officials and employees shall not disclose confidential information gained by reason of their official position, nor shall they otherwise use such information for their personal gain or benefit.
(Code 1978, § 2-13; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-159. - Conflict of interest.
(a)
If an employee of the City is an officer, director, agent or member of, or owns any interest in an entity which is subject to the regulation of, or which has financial commitments with the City, he shall file a sworn statement detailing the interest or commitment with the City Clerk.
(b)
An employee shall not transact any business in their capacity as City employees with any business entity of which he is an officer, director, agent, member, or in which he owns a controlling interest, excluding civic, charitable or religious organizations.
(c)
An employee shall not have personal investments in enterprises that create a conflict or a perceived conflict between their personal interest and public interest. A passive interest by any official or employee in any public or private entity with which interest is five percent or less will not constitute a sufficient interest to raise a presumption or a perceived conflict of interest.
(Code 1978, § 2-14; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Sec. 2-160. - Political activity.
(a)
No person employed by the City shall either publicly or otherwise hold himself out as a candidate in any City election while holding such employment.
(b)
City employees shall not take part in any political management or political campaign for elections of the Mayor or City Council for the City during any period of time.
(c)
No employee, official or other person shall solicit, orally or by letter, or in any other manner concerned in obtaining any assessments, contributions, or services for any political party from any employee during his duty, service, or work with the City.
(d)
Employees shall not represent the City by wearing any uniform or portion thereof that is issued by the City while they are participating in any campaign at any time.
(e)
The City does not seek to influence employees in their choice of party affiliations or candidates. Therefore, (except as provided in subsection (b) of this section) nothing contained in this Code shall be construed to restrict the right of any employee to hold membership in or support a political party, to vote as he chooses, to express opinions on political subjects or candidates, to maintain political neutrality, to attend political parties after work hours, or to campaign actively during off-duty hours in all areas of political activity.
(f)
Employees shall not utilize any City equipment or vehicle in support of any political campaign.
(Code 1978, § 2-15; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
Secs. 2-161—2-188. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT

Sec. 2-189. - Limitations and approval requirement.
(a)
City employment shall be considered to be the primary employment of all full-time employees. No employee may engage in outside employment that will interfere with the interests of City service. Employments that are not acceptable include, but are not limited to:
(1)
Illegal activity;
(2)
Employment that by virtue of association will reflect upon the reputation of the City;
(3)
High hazard or fatiguing work which might detract from or reduce employee performance with the City.
(b)
Prior to beginning any regularly scheduled outside employment, employees will obtain specific written approval from their department head or their designee on request forms which indicate the name of the outside employer, the nature of the work, hours of work, address and telephone number where the employee can be reached. Such information will become a part of the employee's official personnel record. Employees are required to obtain approval from their department head or designee for any change in a previously approved outside employment request.
(c)
Any employee accepting or engaging in outside employment under the terms of this section shall make arrangements with the outside employer to respond immediately to any emergency call of duty or whenever the City shall determine that the employee's services are necessary.
(d)
Employees sustaining injuries while engaged in outside employment are normally ineligible to receive benefits under the City's workers' compensation program. If an employee sustains an injury while engaged in outside employment, but is performing duties within the scope of his City responsibilities (i.e., a police arrest), they may be eligible for partial City worker's compensation benefits.
(e)
Failure to comply with the provisions of this section will result in disciplinary action.
(Code 1978, § 2-20; Ord. No. 2000-05, 11-16-2000)
State Law reference— Voting upon questions by interested Councilmembers, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-6.
Secs. 2-190—2-216. - Reserved.
