Chapter 74 - SIGNS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; signs for sexually oriented businesses, § 18-176; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 82; zoning, ch. 102.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 74-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Ground sign means any permanent or temporary sign supported by uprights or braces placed upon the ground, not supported by or suspended from any building.
Projecting sign means any sign which is attached perpendicular to a building or other structure and extended from the plane of such building walls.
Public property means any street, alley, sidewalk or other public thoroughfare in the city.
Separate use sign means a sign advertising a product or service which is offered other than on the premises where the sign is located.
Sign means any representation with letters, numerals or pictures, graphic, or advertising display including, but not limited to, any announcement, declaration, demonstration or insignia used to advertise or promote the interest of any person.
Wall sign means any sign which is attached flat to, painted on, or pinned away from the parallel to a wall.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 74-2. - Signs extending over public property—Prohibited.
No wall sign or projecting sign shall extend more than 18 inches over or onto public property and no ground sign shall extend over public property to any extent.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-3)
Sec. 74-3. - Same—Restrictions.
Any ground sign which shall extend over public property and any wall or projecting sign which shall extend over public property more than 18 inches is hereby declared to be a nonconforming sign and can only be maintained, repaired or restored. Such sign must be removed or changed or altered to conform with the provisions of this chapter, in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-4)
Sec. 74-4. - Separate use signs; location restrictions.
Separate use signs are permitted within the city limit area along Highway I-85, SR 403, SR 14, SR 54, and SR 100 where zoned commercial or industrial.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-5)
Sec. 74-4.1. - Billboards permitted in light industrial district.
(a)
Billboards shall be allowed in light industrial districts. "Light industrial district" is defined as to provide areas for light manufacturing uses that primarily involve finishing or assembly of previously manufactured goods. The district is also intended to provide for location of wholesale use as well as other uses.
(1)
Light industrial district excludes manufacturing or industrial uses that emit noxious fumes, odors, dust, gas noise or vibration outside of any building on the premises. It also excludes hazardous materials such as those involving bulk storage of gasoline or toxic chemicals.
(2)
The district is designed for industrial and warehousing uses that do not have detrimental effect on adjoining residential or commercial developments.
(b)
Billboards will require a building permit; permit fee will be based on cost of construction. The permit application will require structural drawings sealed by a professional engineer.
(Ord. No. 05-03-07, 3-7-2005)
Sec. 74-5. - Traffic hazards.
No sign or other advertising structure shall be erected at the intersection of any street in such a manner as to obstruct the free and clear vision, or at any location where by reason of the position, shape or color thereof, such sign may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal, or device, or which makes use of the words "Stop," "Look," "Danger," or any other word, phrase, symbol or character so as to interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-6)
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 94.
Sec. 74-6. - Obscene signs.
No person shall use any sign to advertise any obscene, indecent or immoral matter, nor shall any such obscene, indecent or immoral matter be used in or upon such sign.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-7)
State Law reference— Obscene material defined, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-80; restriction on outdoor signs, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-75.
Sec. 74-7. - Nonconforming signs; removal.
Nonconforming signs, signs which on the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter was derived do not conform with the requirements of this chapter, must be removed, changed, or altered to conform with the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-8)
Sec. 74-8. - Maintenance of nonconforming signs.
Minor maintenance and repairs of nonconforming signs such as repainting and electrical repairs shall be permitted but changes in the size or shape of the sign shall not be permitted except to make the sign comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-9)
Sec. 74-9. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-7.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-10)
Sec. 74-10. - Remedies.
Notwithstanding any other provisions contained in this chapter and for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, the building inspector or other appropriate official of the city shall have the right to seek and undertake the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter in the superior court of the county, such right of enforcement being in addition to and cumulative of the enforcement provisions contained in section 74-9, including but not limited to a right to compel demolition of any such nonconforming sign and to enjoin the owner of such sign from the continued maintenance of any such sign, and to enjoin the erection of a sign which does not conform to the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-11)
Secs. 74-11—74-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - INTERSTATE SIGNS

Sec. 74-31. - General sign provisions.
(a)
This article shall apply to all outdoor advertising signs abutting or visible from the Interstate 85 right-of-way in the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
No sign shall be erected or maintained unless it is in compliance with the regulations of this article.
(c)
Signs must be constructed of durable materials, maintained in good condition, and not permitted to become dilapidated.
(d)
All signs located on sites abutting or visible from the Interstate 85 right-of-way shall conform with O.C.G.A. § 32-6-70 et seq. (The Georgia Outdoor Advertising Code) and shall meet all federal and state requirements necessary to obtain a permit under that code. In instances where the sign controls of this article are more strict, the regulations of this article shall apply.
(e)
Any sign which advertises an activity, business, product or service which has ceased operation or production shall be removed within six months of the discontinuance of that activity, business, product or service.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-21)
Sec. 74-32. - Prohibited signs.
(a)
Signs imitating warning signals are prohibited. No sign shall display lights resembling the flashing lights customarily used in traffic signals or in police, fire, ambulance or rescue vehicles; nor shall any signs use the words, slogans, dimensional shapes and sizes, or colors of governmental traffic signs.
(b)
No signs, except traffic signs and signals and informational signs erected by a public agency, are permitted within any street or highway right-of-way.
(c)
Signs painted or attached to natural features such as trees or rocks, telephone poles, utility poles, or fence posts are prohibited.
(d)
Fluttering ribbons and banners are prohibited.
(e)
Signs within 300 feet of any officially designated historical site or monument, except signs pertaining to that particular site or monument, are prohibited.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-22)
State Law reference— Designated signs, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-73.
Sec. 74-33. - Regulations for specific types of signs.
(a)
Home occupation signs. For home occupation signs, one nonilluminated professional or business name plate not exceeding two square feet in area is permitted.
(b)
Signs of work under construction. For signs of work under construction, one nonilluminated sign not exceeding 40 square feet in area displaying the name of the building, the contractors, the architects, the engineers, the owners, the financial selling and development agencies is permitted upon the premises or any work under construction, alteration, or removal. Such signs shall be removed from the site within 30 days after completion of the project.
(c)
Temporary subdivision signs. Temporary signs, not exceeding 40 square feet in area, announcing a land subdivision development are permitted on the premises of the land subdivision. Such signs shall be spaced not less than 300 feet apart. Such signs shall be removed when 75 percent of the lots are conveyed.
(d)
Roof signs. Not more than one roof sign structure may be erected on the roof of any one building. No roof sign structure shall extend more than 25 feet above the elevation of the roof.
(e)
Wall signs. Signs on the walls of a building, including signs attached flat against the wall, painted wall signs and projecting signs, shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Signs on the broad surface of a building. The total area of signs on the exterior surface of a building shall not exceed 25 percent of the front surface of a building.
(2)
Signs on the side and roof surface of a building. The total area of signs on a side or roof surface of a building shall not exceed 50 percent of the exterior side or roof surface of a building, respectively.
(3)
Projecting signs. Wall signs attached flat against a wall may extend not more than 24 inches from a wall. Signs attached at an angle to a wall may extend from the wall of a building not more than five feet.
(f)
Illuminated signs. Illumination devices shall be so placed and so shielded that light from the sign itself will not be directly cast into any residential district, sleeping rooms in any district or the eyes of an automobile or vehicular driver.
(g)
Outdoor advertising signs. Outdoor advertising signs shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Uniform size. The outside measurements of all outdoor advertising signs shall be 12 feet in height and 50 feet in length, with or without trim, or such other measurements as approved by the state department of transportation.
(2)
Illumination. All illuminated signs shall use base mounted fluorescent or mercury vapor lights and shall be activated by photoelectric cells. Additional lighting, including but not limited to neon, animation and running lights, is prohibited.
(3)
Height above interstate grade. All signs shall be a minimum of ten feet above adjacent interstate pavement measuring from the lower portion of the sign face. Signs shall not exceed 30 feet in height. Two signs in the same location (back to back or "V" formation) shall be the same height above the interstate's surface.
(4)
Extrusions prohibited. Extrusions beyond the face of the sign, excluding aprons, are prohibited.
(5)
Number of signs per location. Only one sign shall be allowed to face the same direction per location. This allows back to back or "V" formation signs but prohibits two signs (side by side) facing the same direction.
(6)
Spacing. Sign locations shall be no less than 500 feet apart measuring from the two closest points.
(7)
Number near interchanges. Three outdoor advertising signs are allowed per quadrant of any interchange adjacent to the interstate highway. These signs must be within commercially or industrially zoned areas as specified in state law and are restricted to any area 1,200 feet long beginning 500 feet from the point where the pavement widens on the main traveled way to accommodate the longest entrance or exit ramp.
(8)
Marsh and historic area locations prohibited. No sign shall be placed in or obstruct the view of a marshland area or any area of designated historic interest.
(9)
Advertisement limitations. Outdoor advertising shall be limited to the following:
a.
Travel service facilities including lodgings, gas, food, camping.
b.
Areas of scenic beauty.
c.
Public attractions including historic, natural, scientific or recreational amenities.
d.
Other motorist services.
e.
Any combination of the facilities listed in subsection (9)a—d of this section. Further, the content of all advertising shall be directional in nature.
(h)
On-premises signs. On-premises signs located within 100 feet of a regularly used part of the activity being advertised and located on the same property and for sale or for lease signs located on the property being advertised are not prohibited.
(i)
Nonconforming signs. Any legally erected sign which would become nonconforming as a result of this article would be allowed to remain until purchased by the state department of transportation or the county, provided that the sign owner meets the requirements of state laws and rules and regulations governing such signs.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-23)
Sec. 74-34. - Penalties.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction in the municipal court of the city, be punished as provided in section 1-7.
(Code 1988, § 8-4-24)
