Chapter 62 - PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 18; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 82.
State Law reference— Charitable Solicitations Act of 1988, O.C.G.A. § 43-17-1 et seq.; Transient Merchant Act of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 62-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Peddler means any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by foot, wagon, automotive vehicle, or any other type of conveyance from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying, or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, or provisions, and who offers and exposes such goods, wares or merchandise for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle, railroad car, or other vehicle or conveyance.
Itinerant merchant means any person, whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, and whether a resident of the city or not, who engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise within the city, and who, in furtherance of such purposes, hires, leases, uses, or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, or public room in any hotel, lodginghouse, apartment, or shop within the city for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares, and merchandise, either privately or at public auction.
(Code 1988, § 9-5-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Secs. 62-2—62-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS

Sec. 62-31. - License required.
Each peddler and itinerant merchant who does business within the city shall obtain a license from the city clerk in the manner specified in this chapter.
(Code 1988, § 9-5-2)
Sec. 62-32. - Exemptions.
The license required by this article shall not be applicable to traveling salesmen of nonresident merchants, nor to newsboys, nor to bona fide merchants who merely deliver goods in the regular course of business, nor to bona fide charitable, religious, or philanthropic organizations, nor to nonresident merchants selling through licensed flea markets.
(Code 1988, § 9-5-3)
Sec. 62-33. - Application for license.
Application for a license shall be made as provided in section 18-34, except that the application shall contain the following additional information:
(1)
The fingerprints of the person having the management or supervision of the applicant's business, or in lieu thereof, at least three letters of recommendation from reliable property owners in the county in which the business is to be conducted, certifying as to the applicant's good character and business responsibility, or other evidence which establishes the good character and business responsibility of that person to the satisfaction of the city manager;
(2)
The place or places in the city where it is proposed to carry on the applicant's business, and the length of time during which it is proposed that the business shall be conducted;
(3)
The place or places, other than the permanent place of business of the applicant, where the applicant within the six months next preceding the date of the application conducted a transient business, stating the nature thereof and giving the post office and street address of any building or office in which such business was conducted;
(4)
A statement of the nature, character, and quality of the goods, wares or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant in the city; the invoice value and quality of such goods, wares and merchandise; where the goods or property to be sold are manufactured or produced; and where such goods or products are located at the time such application is filed;
(5)
A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising done in order to attract customers; and, if required by the city manager, copies of all advertising, whether by handbills, circulars, newspaper advertising, or otherwise, shall be attached to the application; and
(6)
Whether or not the person having the management or supervision of the applicant's business has been convicted of a crime, misdemeanor, or the violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of such offense, and punishment assessed therefor.
(Code 1988, § 9-5-4)
Sec. 62-34. - Bond.
Before any license shall be issued for engaging in a transient or itinerant business as provided in this article, the applicant for the license shall file with the city clerk a bond running to the city in the sum of $2,000.00, executed by the applicant, as principal, and two sureties upon which service of process may be made in the state. Such bond shall be approved by the city attorney, conditioned that the applicant shall comply fully with all of the provisions of the ordinances of the city and the statutes of the state regulating and concerning the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, and will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant for any violation of those ordinances or statutes, or any of them, together with all judgments and costs that may be recovered against him by any person for damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deception practiced on any person transacting such business with the applicant, whether the misrepresentations or deceptions made were practiced by the owners or by their servants, agents or employees, either at the time of making the sale or through any advertisement of any character whatsoever, printed or circulated with references to the goods, wares and merchandise sold or any part thereof. Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the city to the use of the aggrieved person. Such bond must be approved by the city attorney, both as to form and as to the responsibility of the sureties thereon.
(Code 1988, § 9-5-5)
Sec. 62-35. - Service of process.
Before any license shall be issued for engaging in business as a peddler or itinerant merchant, the applicant shall file with the city clerk an instrument nominating and appointing the city clerk his true and lawful agent with full power and authority to acknowledge service of notice of process for and on behalf of the applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the business transacted under the license and the bond given as required by this article, or for the performance of the conditions of the bond, or for any breach thereof, which instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect that the applicant for the license consents and agrees that service of any notice or process may be made upon the agent, and when so made shall be taken and held to be as valid as if personally served upon the person applying for the license, and waiving all claim or right of error by reason of such acknowledgement of service or manner of service. Immediately upon service of process upon the city clerk, as provided in this section, the city clerk shall send to the licensee at his last known address, by registered mail, a copy of that process.
(Code 1988, § 9-5-6)
Sec. 62-36. - Fee established.
The business license fee for each peddler and itinerant merchant doing business in the city shall be as fixed from time to time by the city council.
(Code 1988, § 9-5-7)
Sec. 62-37. - Loud noises and speaking devices.
No licensee, nor anyone in his behalf, shall shout, make any outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell, or use any other sound device including any loudspeaker or amplifying system upon any of the streets, alleys, parks, or other public places of the city or upon any private premises in the city where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks or other public places for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares or merchandise which the licensee proposes to sell.
(Code 1988, § 9-5-8)
Secs. 62-38—62-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Charitable Solicitations Act of 1988, O.C.G.A. § 43-17-1 et seq.; municipality authorized to adopt additional regulations, O.C.G.A. § 43-17-17.

Sec. 62-61. - Registration required.
Any person who wishes to solicit donations or contributions for, or sell any insignia or novelty on the streets of the city on behalf of, or under the sponsorship of, any charitable, religious, social, patriotic, or civic club or organization shall be required to register such solicitation or sale with the city clerk at least 48 hours in advance of such event and to obtain a permit for such solicitation.
(Code 1988, § 9-5-21)
Sec. 62-62. - Form of registration.
The registration required by this division shall be in writing, shall be signed by the chief officer of the club or organization, and shall contain the following information:
(1)
The name and object of the charitable, religious, social, patriotic or civic club or organization conducting or sponsoring the solicitation or sale to which the registration relates;
(2)
The day or days on which the solicitation or sale will take place;
(3)
The object for which the funds to be derived from the solicitation or sale will be utilized; and
(4)
The name and address of the chief officer of the club or organization conducting or sponsoring the solicitation or sale.
(Code 1988, § 9-5-22)
Sec. 62-63. - Exemption.
This article shall not apply to any local established organization or church operated exclusively for charitable or religious purposes if the solicitations are in the form of collections or contributions at the regular assemblies of any such organization or church.
(Code 1988, § 9-5-23)
Sec. 62-64. - Duty to exhibit permit.
Charitable solicitors shall exhibit their permits at the request of any citizen.
(Code 1988, § 9-5-24)
Sec. 62-65. - Unlawful acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person to submit a registration which contains any false statement. It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit donations or contributions or sell any insignia or novelty on the streets of the city purportedly on behalf of, or under the sponsorship of, any charitable, religious, social, patriotic or civic club or organization which does not in fact exist.
(Code 1988, § 9-5-25)
Sec. 62-66. - Penalties for violation.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this division shall, upon conviction in the municipal court of the city, be punished as provided in section 1-7.
