ARTICLE VII. - BREW PUBS

Sec. 6-214. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
a.
"Barrel" means 53 gallons.
b.
"Brew pub" means an eating establishment in which beer or malt beverages are manufactured or brewed for retail consumption on the premises or for retail package sales.
( Ord. No. 18-2017, ยง 2, 9-25-17 )
Sec. 6-215. - Regulations.
Brewpubs shall operate according to the following regulations:
(1)
No individual shall be permitted to own or operate a brew pub without first obtaining a proper brew pub license and each brew pub license holder shall comply with all other applicable state and local license requirements; and
(2)
A brew pub license authorizes the holder of such license to:
a.
Manufacture on the licensed premises not more than 10,000 barrels of beer in a calendar year solely for retail on the premises and solely in draft form; and
b.
Operate an eating establishment that shall be the sole retail outlet for such beer and may offer for sale any other alcoholic beverages produced by other manufacturers which are authorized for retail sale under this chapter; provided that such alcoholic beverages are purchased from a licensed wholesaler for consumption on the premises only and provided, further, that in addition to draft beer manufactured on the premises, each brew pub licensee shall offer for sale commercially available canned or bottled malt beverages from licensed wholesalers.
c.
Sell up to a maximum of 5,000 barrels annually to licensed wholesale dealers. Under no circumstances shall such malt beverages be sold by a brewpub licensee to any person holding a retail consumption dealer's license or a retailer's license for the purpose of resale.
( Ord. No. 18-2017, ยง 2, 9-25-17 )
Sec. 6-216. - Other licenses available.
Possession of a brew pub license shall not prevent the holder of such license from obtaining any other license available under this article for the same premises.
( Ord. No. 18-2017, ยง 2, 9-25-17 )
Sec. 6-217. - Payment of fees and taxes.
A brew pub licensee shall pay all state and local license fees and excise taxes applicable to individuals licensed under this article as manufacturers, retailers and, where applicable, wholesalers.
( Ord. No. 18-2017, ยง 2, 9-25-17 )
