ARTICLE II. - COURTS[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Code reference—Courts, ch. 22.

DIVISION 1. - HOUSTON JUDICIAL CIRCUIT

Sec. 2.1. - Created; election of judge and district attorney.
Effective June 1, 1971, there is hereby created a new judicial circuit of the superior courts of this state, to be known as the Houston Judicial Circuit, which circuit shall be composed of the County of Houston. The offices of judge of the Superior Court of Houston County and district attorney of the Houston Judicial Circuit are hereby created for said circuit. The initial judge and district attorney shall be appointed by the Governor and they shall take office on the 1st day of June, 1971, and serve until December 31, 1972. In the general election of 1972, and each four (4) years thereafter, successors to the initial judge and district attorney shall be elected and they shall take office on the 1st day of January following their election and serve for a term of office of four (4) years and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 427, § 1; 1971 Ga. Laws, page 647)
Sec. 2.2. - Compensation of judge.
The compensation and allowances of the judge of said circuit shall be as now or hereafter provided by law. In addition to all other compensation and allowances received by the judge from the state, the board of commissioners of Houston County shall supplement his salary so that his total salary shall not be less than $22,500 per annum. The board of commissioners of Houston County may supplement the judge's salary so that he may receive an annual salary in excess of that figure if they so desire.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 427, § 2)
Sec. 2.3. - Court reporter; secretary.
(a)
The judge of said court shall be authorized to employ and engage a full-time court reporter and shall be authorized to enter into negotiations to provide such services for the court and to fix the compensation of such court reporter in a sum not to exceed $600 per month. The compensation provided herein shall be in lieu of per diem provided by law and for services of reporting cases in said court. The compensation provided herein shall be paid by the governing authority of Houston County and shall be deemed an expense of the operation of the superior court.
(b)
The official court reporter of the superior court shall, upon the order of the court, be paid, in addition to the above-stated compensation, compensation for the preparation of criminal trial transcripts in the Superior Court and the State Court of Houston County at the rate provided by law, and said compensation shall be paid by the governing authority having charge of the fiscal affairs of Houston County. [A] copy thereof may be obtained by any party or parties at their expense; provided, however, when the copies are requested by any state or county officer, the copy shall be furnished at actual cost of the duplication, and when duplicated by the officer, a copy shall be furnished without expense.
(c)
The judge of said court is authorized to employ a full-time secretary and fix the compensation of such secretary in an amount not to exceed $600 per month. The compensation of such secretary shall be an expense of the court and shall be paid by the governing authority of Houston County.
(d)
The governing authority of Houston County shall have the authority to increase the compensation of said court reporter and secretary provided for above in such amount as they shall deem proper and necessary.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 647, § 2)
Sec. 2.4. - Compensation of district attorney; secretary to district attorney.
(a)
The district attorney of said circuit shall be compensated on a salary basis, rather than a fee basis. He shall receive a [as] compensation, expenses and allowances provided by law for district attorneys. The governing authority of Houston County shall have the authority to supplement the compensation of said district attorney out of county funds in such amount as they shall deem proper and necessary.
(b)
The district attorney of said court is authorized to employ a full-time secretary and fix the compensation of such secretary in an amount not to exceed $600 per month. The compensation of such secretary shall be an expense of the court and shall be paid by the governing authority of Houston County. The governing authority of Houston County shall have authority to increase the compensation of said secretary [in] such amount as they shall deem proper and necessary.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 427, § 3; 1971 Ga. Laws, page 647)
Sec. 2.5. - Terms of court.
The terms of the Superior Court of Houston County shall be as follows: the first Mondays in January, March, May, July, September and November.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 427, § 4)
Sec. 2.6. - Grand jury.
The judge of the Superior Court of Houston County, Georgia, shall draw a grand jury for the January and July terms of said court, and, in his discretion, he may draw or require the attendance of a grand jury upon any or all other terms of said court, or may call back the grand jury which was last drawn and impaneled, provided, that the grand jury, which is now in attendance upon the present term of said Court and which is now serving, shall continue to serve as the grand jury until the July, 1972, term of said court unless earlier discharged by the judge.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 427, § 5; 1972 Ga. Laws, page 967)
Sec. 2.7. - Transfer of proceedings from Macon Judicial Circuit.
All proceedings and litigations, civil, equitable and criminal, pending in the superior court of Houston County at such time as it was a part of the Macon Judicial Circuit, including all complaints, pleadings, petitions, indictments, special presentments, summonses, processes, motions, writs, mesne and final proceedings, together with all books and records of any kind or character belonging to, issued, returnable, filed, pending or commenced in such county, shall relate to, become a part of, and be transferred to the superior court of Houston County of the Houston Judicial Circuit and its jurisdiction, when said circuit comes into existence.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 427, § 6)
Sec. 2.8. - Personnel of clerk's office; recommendation of budget.
The clerk shall have the authority to appoint such deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel as he shall deem necessary to discharge efficiently and effectively the official duties of his office. The clerk shall at least 90 days before the first day of July of each year, beginning with July, 1965, recommend to the governing authority of Houston County the number of such personnel needed by his office, together with the suggested compensation to be paid each employee, and a proposed budget covering the costs of operating said office for the next ensuing year. It shall be within the sole power and authority of the clerk, during his respective term of office, to designate and name the person or persons who shall be employed as deputies, clerks, assistants or other employees, and to prescribe their duties and assignments, and to remove or replace any of such employees at will and within his sole discretion.
(1964 Ga. Laws, page 2811, § 3; 1971 Ga. Laws, page 2445)
Sec. 2.9. - Collection and remittance of funds; financial records.
All fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, emoluments, and perquisites of whatever nature provided by laws for services rendered by the clerk shall be charged and collected by said officer and shall be held to him as county funds. On or before the 15th day of each month, the clerk shall pay over to the fiscal authority of Houston County, all such funds as shall have been collected by him for the county during the immediately preceding calendar month. The clerk shall keep such books and records as shall be prescribed by the governing authority of Houston County and all such records shall be open to the inspection of the public, the governing authority of Houston County and their auditors at all times during the hours for which said office is open for business.
(1964 Ga. Laws, page 2811, § 5)
Sec. 2.10. - Collection of funds due as of effective date of act.
All fees, costs, fines, forfeitures, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, monies, payments into retirement system and all other emoluments which have accrued to the clerk at the time this act becomes effective and to which said officer is entitled and which remain uncollected at the time this act becomes effective, shall when collected be paid to said officer. He shall, however, report the collection of any such fees to the governing authority of the county.
(1964 Ga. Laws, page 2811, § 6)
Sec. 2.11. - Microfilm photographic equipment—Use authorized.
In all counties of this state having a population of not less than 50,000 and not more than 75,000 by the 1960 United States census or any future census, the clerk of the superior court, or other officer now or hereafter authorized by law to perform the duties now performed by the clerk of the superior court, [is authorized] to install and use microfilm, photographic equipment and use said installed equipment in recording all records relating to any court cases, civil or criminal, filed with said clerk. Such equipment may be provided for by the proper county authorities out of county funds.
(1961 Ga. Laws, page 3136, § 1)
Sec. 2.12. - Same—Intent.
The provisions of this Act for the installation and use of such equipment shall be construed to be permissive only, and are cumulative of existing provisions of laws.
(1961 Ga. Laws, page 3136, § 2)
Sec. 2.13. - Same—Viewing equipment.
If such records are microfilmed adequate equipment for viewing such records shall be maintained.
(1961 Ga. Laws, page 3136, § 3)
Sec. 2.14. - Same—Use for records on appeal.
No provision of this Act shall be construed to change or repeal any rule of court or of any provision of law relating to records on appeal for review in the courts of this state.
(1961 Ga. Laws, page 3136, § 4)
Secs. 2.15—2.30. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - STATE COURT OF HOUSTON COUNTY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the act of the general assembly, as amended, which created and established a special court to be located in Warner Robins and to be known as the State Court of Houston County. It may be cited as 1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584.

Sec. 2.31. - Special court authorized.
Article VI, section IX, paragraph I of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
The General Assembly is authorized to create within Houston County a special court and to invest such court with jurisdiction and powers as the General Assembly may provide. The General Assembly shall provide by law for the jurisdiction, personnel, juries, practice and procedure within said court and for the manner and method of the correction of errors through direct appeals to the Court of Appeals and Supreme Court and the granting of new trials. Said court may be established without regard to the provisions of this paragraph requiring uniformity of judicial tribunals.
(1968 Ga. Laws, page 1805, § 1)
Editor's note— The special court created by constitutional amendment in article 6, section 9, paragraph 1, was continued in full force and effect pursuant to 1985 Ga. Laws, page 4871.
Sec. 2.32. - Creation.
Under the authority conferred upon the General Assembly by Article VI, Section IX, Paragraph I of the Constitution pursuant to a constitutional amendment approved April 10, 1968 (1968 Ga. Laws, page 1805), and ratified November 5, 1968, there is hereby created and established a special court which shall be located in the City of Warner Robins, Houston County, Georgia. Said court shall be known as the State Court of Houston County and said court shall have territorial jurisdiction over the entire County of Houston.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 1)
Sec. 2.33. - Jurisdiction.
The State Court of Houston County shall have jurisdiction within the limits of Houston County concurrent with the superior court of said county to try and dispose of all civil cases or proceedings of whatever nature, whether arising ex contractu or delicto under the common law or by statute and over which jurisdiction is not vested by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia exclusively in any other court, without regard to the amount in controversy. Said state court shall have criminal jurisdiction in the County of Houston over all misdemeanor cases, but shall not have any jurisdiction over felony cases. The accused in criminal proceedings in said court shall not have the right to indictment by the Grand Jury of Houston County. The State Court of Houston County shall have jurisdiction of special statutory remedies such as, but not limited to: mortgage foreclosures, garnishments and attachments.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 2)
Sec. 2.34. - Judge—Election, commissioning and oath.
There shall be a judge of said state court who shall be elected by the voters of Houston County as hereinafter provided. Mr. Paul C. Armitage, the presently elected Judge of the State Court of Houston County, shall serve until the expiration of his term of office on December 31, 1978. At the general election in 1978, a successor to Mr. Armitage shall be elected, and he shall take office January 1, 1979, for a term of four (4) years and until his successor is elected and qualified. Future successors shall be elected at the general election each four (4) years and shall likewise serve a term of four (4) years and until their successors are elected and qualified. The judge of the state court shall be commissioned by the Governor and, before entering the duties of his office, shall take the same oath which judges of superior courts must take.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 3)
Sec. 2.35. - Same—Eligibility; compensation.
In order to be eligible to be appointed or elected judge of said state court, a person at the time of said appointment or election must have been a resident of Houston County continuously for the three (3) years immediately preceding said appointment or election, must be a licensed attorney at law and must have been a practicing attorney for at least five (5) years immediately preceding such appointment or election. Such person must also be at least twenty-five (25) years of age and must be a qualified registered voter of Houston County. The Judge of the State Court of Houston County shall not be permitted to engage in the practice of law. He shall be compensated by an annual salary to be fixed by the governing authority of Houston County and to be not less than $12,000.00. In that year in which the term of office of the judge shall expire, it shall be the duty of the governing authority of Houston County on or before the first day of July to fix the salary of the judge of the state court for the next ensuing term of office of such judge. The salary so fixed by the governing authority shall not be diminished during the term of office of that judge who takes office on the first day of January following. The salary of the judge of the state court shall be paid out of county funds.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 4)
Sec. 2.36. - Same—Vacancies in office.
In the event of a vacancy in the office of judge of said state court by reason of death, resignation or any other cause except expiration of term of office, the Governor shall appoint a person to serve the unexpired term.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 5)
Sec. 2.37. - Same—Powers.
The judge of said court is hereby granted the same power and authority as is held [by] judges of the superior courts of this state within the limitations of this Act and laws of general application of the State of Georgia. All laws relating to and governing judges of the superior courts shall apply to the Judge of the State Court of Houston County insofar as the same may be applicable, unless inconsistent with the provisions of this Act.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 6)
Sec. 2.38. - Same—Absence.
Upon taking office, the judge of said court shall appoint some competent and disinterested attorney at law who shall meet the qualifications of section 4[2.35] hereof to preside in said court in the place of said judge when the judge of said court is unable to discharge the duties of his office due to providential cause or if he is for any cause disqualified or prevented from presiding in any cause in said court. Such attorney, when so appointed and when the appointment is entered upon the minutes of the court, and in any of such events, shall exercise all the functions and powers of the judge of said court. The compensation of such attorney for actual services as presiding judge shall be $50.00 per day to be paid from the same funds from which other officers of the court are paid.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 7)
Sec. 2.39. - Solicitor—Election, commissioning and oath.
There shall be a solicitor of said state court who shall be elected by the voters of Houston County as hereinafter provided. Mr. Austin J. Kemp II, the presently elected Solicitor of the State Court of Houston County, shall serve until the expiration of his term of office on December 31, 1978. At the general election in 1978, a successor to the first solicitor shall be elected, and he shall take office January 1, 1979, for a term of four (4) years and until his successor is elected and qualified. Future successors shall be elected at the general election each four (4) years and shall likewise serve a term of four (4) years and until their successors are elected and qualified. The solicitor of the state court shall be commissioned by the Governor and, before entering the duties of his office, shall take the same oath which solicitors general of superior courts must take. The solicitor is to represent the State in all criminal procedures in the State Court of Houston County and all appeals therefrom.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 8)
Sec. 2.40. - Same—Qualifications; compensation.
(a)
The qualifications for eligibility to the office of solicitor of said state court shall be as provided by general state law, as now contained in Code Section 15-7-24 [O.C.G.A. § 15-7-24] or as hereafter provided by general state law.
(b)
The solicitor shall be a full-time solicitor and shall not engage in the private practice of law.
(c)
The solicitor shall be compensated by an annual salary to be fixed by the governing authority of Houston County and to be not less than $36,000.00. In that year in which the term of office of the solicitor shall expire, it shall be the duty of the governing authority of Houston County on or before the first day of July to fix the salary of the solicitor of the State Court of Houston County for the next ensuing term of office of such solicitor. The salary so fixed by the governing authority shall not be diminished during the term of office of that solicitor who takes office on the first day of January following. The salary of the solicitor of the state court shall be paid out of county funds.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 9; 1989 Ga. Laws, page 4348)
Sec. 2.41. - Same—Vacancies in office.
In the event of a vacancy in the office of solicitor of said state court by reason of death, resignation or any other cause except expiration of term of office, the Governor shall appoint a person to serve the unexpired term.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 10)
Sec. 2.42. - Same—Absence.
In the event the solicitor, due to providential cause, is unable to discharge the duties of his office, the judge is hereby authorized to appoint an attorney of Houston County who is qualified under Section 9[2.40] hereof to perform the duties of the solicitor until such time as the solicitor is able to perform such duties. The compensation of said attorney while serving as solicitor shall be $15.00 per day, to be paid from the same funds from which other officers of the court are paid.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 11)
Sec. 2.43. - Sheriff and deputy sheriffs.
The Sheriff of Houston County and his deputies shall also act as Sheriff and Deputy Sheriffs of the State Court of Houston County.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 12)
Sec. 2.44. - Clerk—Election; compensation.
There shall be a Clerk of said State Court of Houston County. Mr. Ray Bliss, the present clerk of said state court, shall continue to serve until the expiration of his term of office on December 31, 1978. At the general election in 1978 and every four (4) years thereafter, the clerk shall be elected in the same manner and shall serve for the same term of office as the judge of said court. The clerk shall be compensated at an annual salary to be fixed by the governing authority of Houston County and to be not less than $4,800.00. In that year in which the term of office of the clerk shall expire, it shall be the duty of the governing authority of Houston County on or before the first day of July to fix the salary of the Clerk of the State Court of Houston County for the next ensuing term of office of such clerk. The salary so fixed by the governing authority shall not be diminished during the term of office of that clerk who takes office on the first day of January following. The salary of the clerk of the state court shall be paid from county funds.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 13)
Sec. 2.45. - Same—Qualifications; deputy clerks.
Any person who shall be appointed Clerk or Deputy Clerk of said State Court of Houston County must at the time of appointment be a qualified voter of Houston County.
The clerk of said state court shall have the power to appoint a sufficient number of deputy clerks as from time to time may be needed to efficiently handle and transact the business of the court, the number thereof appointed to be first authorized by the Board of County Commissioners of Houston County, Georgia, and each and all of whom thus appointed shall hold office during the pleasure of the clerk of said court. The deputy clerks, if and when appointed, shall exercise all the functions and be subject to all the responsibilities and requirements of the said clerk. The clerk shall fix the compensation of deputy clerks subject to the approval of the governing authority of Houston County, Georgia.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 14)
Sec. 2.46. - Same—Powers and duties; bond.
All the requirements and duties, powers and authority imposed by law upon and conferred upon the clerks of superior courts of this State shall be obligatory upon and shall be vested in the Clerk of said State Court of Houston County, respectively, except where inconsistent with or limited by the provisions of this Act defining the jurisdiction of said court; provided, however, that the amount of the bond of the clerk of said state court shall be no less than $5,000.00 or such other amount as shall be established by the governing authority of Houston County.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 15)
Sec. 2.47. - Ministerial functions of judge and clerk.
The Clerk of said State Court of Houston County and each and every deputy clerk of said court shall have complete power and authority, coincident and coordinate with the power of the judge of said court, under the provisions of this Act to issue any and all warrants, civil and criminal, summary processes and writs which are issuable as a matter of right; to accept and approve bonds; to accept bond forfeitures; and to discharge any and all other functions ministerial in character which under the laws of this State are performable by a justice of the peace or by a clerk of the superior court.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 16)
Sec. 2.48. - Records.
Said State Court of Houston County shall be a court of record and shall have a seal. The minutes, records and other books and files that are required by law to be kept for the superior court shall, the same manner, so far as the jurisdiction of said State Court of Houston County may render necessary, be kept in and for said state court; provided, that the clerk of said state court shall not be required to keep a book of final records but shall see that the records are preserved in suitable files with all original papers in each case which shall not be removed from said clerk's office except upon order of the Judge of said State Court of Houston County upon good cause shown and then only upon receipt of counsel, and such removal from the clerk's office shall not continue for a longer period than five days.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 17)
Sec. 2.49. - Rules for return of writs, processes and warrants.
All warrants, summary processes and writs issuing out of said State Court of Houston County shall be returnable to said State Court of Houston County (unless required by law to be returnable to superior court) in the same manner and under the same rules as such writs are required to be returned to the superior courts or the justice courts of this State as the case may be.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 18)
Sec. 2.50. - Rules of practice.
The rules of practice, pleading, procedure and evidence as are applicable to superior courts of this State shall be the rules of and be applicable to the State Court of Houston County.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 19)
Sec. 2.51. - Rules for disposition of traffic offenses.
The Judge of the State Court of Houston County is hereby empowered to promulgate rules and regulations allowing a defendant charged with a traffic offense to appear and dispose of said case under such rules and regulations so promulgated.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 20)
Sec. 2.52. - Terms of court.
The terms of court of the State Court of Houston County shall be the third Monday of January, March, May, July, September, and November. Dates for guilty pleas, noncontested civil matters and nonjury matters shall be set by the judge. The judge may, in his discretion, hold adjourned terms, when business requires it, to close the dockets and may in the exercise of a sound discretion cause new juries to be drawn for the same or order the juries drawn for the regular term to give attendance upon such adjourned terms; and said judge is authorized to hold special terms of said court for the trial of criminals or for the disposition of civil business, either or both, at discretion, and either to compel the attendance of jurors of [the] previous term or to draw new jurors for the same according to the laws now in force.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 21; 1981 Ga. Laws, page 3551)
Sec. 2.53. - Drawing of jurors.
All laws of this State with reference to the drawing, selecting and summoning of traverse jurors in the courts of this State shall apply to the State Court of Houston County.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 22)
Sec. 2.54. - Qualifications, empaneling and compensation of jurors.
All laws with reference to the qualifications, empaneling, challenging and compensation of jurors now of force or such as may hereinafter be enacted in this State shall apply to and be observed in said State Court of Houston County.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 23)
Sec. 2.55. - Selection of jurors.
All jury trials in said court shall be by a jury of twelve (12); and said jury of twelve (12) shall be stricken from a panel of twenty-four (24) qualified jurors drawn and summoned under the provisions of this Act with each side being entitled to six (6) preemptory challenges, except in criminal cases, in which said cases the defense will be entitled to seven (7) preemptory challenges and the State entitled to five (5) preemptory challenges.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 24)
Sec. 2.56. - Demand for jury.
Every case in said State Court of Houston County shall be tried by the judge thereof without a jury unless a written demand for trial by jury is filed in said court by the plaintiff or his attorney or by any other party seeking affirmative relief at the time such action or proceeding is instituted, or by the defendant or his attorney on or before the day upon which he is required to appear in court in response to the proceedings against him; upon the failure of a party to demand a trial by jury, he shall be held to have waived any such right. The judge, however, in his discretion, upon request of either party or counsel for either party may allow a jury in any case at any time before the commencement of any trial before him without a jury, if, in his opinion, the request therefor is not made for delay only and if, in his opinion, the case is of such character that the end of justice will be best served by a trial by jury.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 25)
Sec. 2.57. - Reporting of cases.
The Judge of the State Court of Houston County shall have the same authority as the Judge of the Superior Court of Houston County to order a case reported and he may direct the case reported when either party or counsel requests it, or when, in the discretion of the judge, the ends of justice require that the case be reported. Whenever a case is reported in said court either by agreement of parties or counsel, or by direction of the court under the rule, the cost of such reporting shall be taxed equally against the parties to the case except as herein provided and shall be assessed as costs in the case under the same rules as prevail in the superior court, save that the charge for such reporting shall be at the rate of twelve cents per hundred words for taking down the testimony and twelve cents per hundred words for writing it out. It [If] either party or his counsel objects to the reporting of the case, the party so objecting shall not be charged with any expense of reporting the case, unless the judge on preliminary investigation shall determine that the case is one that should be reported, and shall direct it reported under the rule. Whenever it becomes necessary in the opinion of the Judge of the State Court of Houston County that a case shall be reported in said court, the judge of said court may designate a competent and disinterested stenographer to report said case and the compensation of such reporter shall be twelve cents per hundred words for taking down and twelve cents per hundred words for writing out the record of said case and if not paid by the parties liable therefor, it shall be taxed as costs in said case and fi. fa. issued therefor for the use and benefit of the reporter so reporting said case and paid to said reporter when collected as compensation for reporting said case. It shall be permissible for the judge of said court to appoint as court reporter aforesaid any deputy clerk or officer of said court who is a capable and efficient stenographer.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 26)
Sec. 2.58. - New trials; appeals.
(a)
The court may grant new trials in the same manner and upon the same grounds as new trials are granted by the Superior Court of Houston County, as now or hereafter provided by law.
(b)
A direct appeal shall lie to the Court of Appeals of Georgia or to the Supreme Court of Georgia from the judgment, order or ruling of the State Court of Houston County, in the same manner that a judgment, order or ruling of the Superior Court of Houston County is now or may hereafter be reviewed, as provided for by law.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 27)
Sec. 2.59. - Furnishing of reference books.
The State Librarian is hereby authorized and directed to furnish to said state court as they are published, a set of reports of the Supreme Court of Georgia and a set of the reports of the Court of Appeals of Georgia and a set of the Georgia Laws with no cost to said court except shipping charges.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 28)
Sec. 2.60. - Sales of personal property.
All sales of personal property levied upon in Houston County under process from the State Court of Houston County shall be conducted in the same manner as are such sales in the Superior Court of Houston County, except that sales may be held at the door of the place where said state court meets.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 29)
Sec. 2.61. - Court costs.
The scale of costs in all civil cases to be collected by officers of said state court shall be the same as the scale of costs in the Superior Court of Houston County. The costs in criminal cases shall be the same as the costs in the Superior Court of Houston County. All fees, fines, costs and other monies shall be collected by the proper officers of said court and once a month shall be turned over to the Board of County Commissioners of Houston County, Georgia, and shall become and be the property of Houston County.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 30; 1987 Ga. Laws, page 5414)
Sec. 2.62. - Disposition of unclaimed funds or credits.
Whenever the Clerk of the State Court of Houston County shall have in his hands any money, funds or credits which shall remain in his hands unclaimed by any person, firm or corporation for a period of six (6) months after all litigation in connection with such money, funds or credits has been fully and finally disposed of by the state court and by an appellate court, which said money, funds or credits shall have come into the hands of said clerk in connection with any case or matter pending at the time, or which has been pending in said state court, it shall be the duty of the said clerk of the state court to notify the person, firm or corporation whose property the records of said State Court of Houston County indicates said money, funds or credits to be by registered letter addressed to the said person, firm or corporation at the best obtainable address of the fact that such money, funds or credits are in his hands, and that unless the same are claimed within ten (10) days, he will dispose of the same as hereinafter provided; and if after the expiration of the period of ten (10) days from the mailing of said registered letter the same money, funds or credits still remain in the hands of said clerk unclaimed, it shall be his duty to pay the same into the treasury of Houston County, the same to be disposed of by the treasurer, or other county authority having control of county funds, in the same manner as is hereinafter provided as to funds placed in the treasury of Houston County and arising from the sale of unclaimed property remaining in the hands of the Sheriff of said State Court of Houston County; provided, however, that the clerk of the said state court, at the time of paying over to the Treasurer of Houston County any of such money, funds or credits, shall give to the Treasurer of Houston County, or other county authorities having control of the funds of said county, full information in writing as to the case or matter in connection with which such money came into his hands, and as to the name of the person, firm or corporation indicated by the records of the State Court of Houston County to be the owner of said money, funds or credits; and provided also that the expense incurred by the clerk in complying with this Section shall be deducted from the money, funds or credits in his hands.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 31)
Sec. 2.63. - Disposition of unclaimed property in custody of sheriff.
Whenever the sheriff of Houston County shall have in his custody any property or effects, which has come into his possession by law or seizure by virtue of any process or papers properly placed in his hands for execution, whether the levy be made by him or his deputy, which has been in his hands for a period of six (6) months after all litigation concerning the same has been disposed of in the State Court of Houston County and on appeal from that court, and it is unclaimed by any person, firm or corporation, it shall be the duty of said sheriff to give notice by registered mail to the owner of said property, if the name of such owner can be ascertained by reasonable inquiry, at the best obtainable address of such owner, specifying in said notice the property so remaining in his hands, and warning the said owner that the same will be sold in terms of the law unless the said property is claimed within ten (10) days from the mailing of such notice. If after the lapse of ten (10) days from the mailing of such notice, no claim to said property is made, said sheriff shall advertise the same for sale as unclaimed property, specifying in said advertisement the process under which the same was seized, said advertisement to be published as other advertisements of property levied upon under process of said state court. The proceeds of said sale shall be paid by the said sheriff into the treasury of Houston County; provided, however, said sheriff at the time of paying over the said proceeds shall give to the Treasurer of Houston County, or other county authorities having charge of the funds of said county, full information in writing as to the process under which the said property was seized, and as to the nature of the property which was sold.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 32)
Sec. 2.64. - Claims for funds paid over to county treasurer.
The Treasurer of Houston County, or other county authorities having charge of the funds of said county, shall keep any funds paid over to him, either by the Clerk of the State Court of Houston County under section 31[2.62] of this Act or by the Sheriff of said State Court of Houston County under section 32[2.63] of this Act, in a separate account for a period of twelve (12) months after the same is received. Should any person, firm or corporation claim the said fund within said period of twelve (12) months, such claimant may file an affidavit of ownership with the Treasurer of Houston County, or other county authorities having charge of the funds of said county, and may give bond in double the amount of the money claimed, with good security to be approved by the said treasurer, or other county authorities having control of the said fund, which said bond shall be conditional to answer any demand thereon that may be proved and established in any court of this State within a period of two (2) years from the date of said bonds and shall be payable to the county authority having charge of said fund. Upon the making and filing of said affidavit and bond, said fund shall be delivered to the claimant. If no claim be filed to said money within a period of twelve (12) months from the time, the same shall be taken out of the special account and be put in the general funds of Houston County and become the property of Houston County. In case conflicting claims are made to any of said money, it shall be the duty of the Treasurer of Houston County, or other county authorities having charge of the said fund, to require the claimants to litigate their claim in the State Court of Houston County, and to hold the said fund and pay out the same according to the final results of such litigation; provided, however, all such litigation must be instituted within a period of twelve (12) months from the time said money is paid into the treasury of Houston County; provided, also, that the jurisdiction to hear and determine said claim is hereby expressly conferred upon the State Court of Houston County regardless of the amount involved, and regardless of the residence of the parties, and the final order of said state court shall specify which of said claimants is entitled to the funds, or whether either or any one of them has established his right thereto. In case the result of said litigation should be that neither of said claimants is entitled to the fund, the Treasurer of Houston County or other county authorities having control of said fund shall continue to hold the same as unclaimed money and dispose of the same as hereinbefore provided.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 33)
Sec. 2.65. - Location.
The State Court of Houston County shall be located in the City of Warner Robins and it shall be the duty of the governing authority of Houston County, Georgia, to provide temporary quarters for the court, until such time as permanent quarters are available. The Commissioners of Houston County, Georgia, are hereby authorized to expend such funds as they deem necessary to construct and maintain permanent quarters for said court.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 34)
Sec. 2.66. - Transfer of proceedings from city court.
All proceedings and litigations, civil or criminal, pending in the City Court of Warner Robins, created by an Act, approved March 26, 1965 (1965 Ga. Laws, page 2650), as amended by an Act approved March 4, 1966 (1966 Ga. Laws, page 3203), by an Act approved April 4, 1967 (1967 Ga. Laws, page 2564) changing the name of said court, by an Act approved March 21, 1968 (1968 Ga. Laws, page 2656), by an Act approved April 10, 1969 (1969 Ga. Laws, page 2620), and by an Act approved April 17, 1973 (1973 Ga. Laws, page 3072), including all complaints, pleadings, petitions, accusations, summonses, processes, motions, writs, mesne, and final proceedings, together with all books and records of any kind or character belonging to, issued, returnable, filed, pending or commenced in such court, shall relate to, become a part of, and be transferred to the State Court of Houston County and its jurisdiction upon approval of this Act creating said special court.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2584, § 35)
Secs. 2.67—2.80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PROBATE COURT

Sec. 2.81. - Deputies and other personnel; recommendation of budget.
The judge of the probate court shall have the authority to appoint such deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel as he shall deem necessary to discharge efficiently and effectively the official duties of his office. The judge of the probate court shall at least 90 days before the first day of July of each year, beginning with July, 1965, recommend to the governing authority of Houston County the number of such personnel needed by his office, together with the suggested compensation to be paid each employee, and a proposed budget covering the costs of operating said office for the next ensuing year. It shall be within the sole power and authority of the judge of the probate court, during his respective term of office, to designate and name the person or persons who shall be employed as deputies, clerks, assistants or other employees, and to prescribe their duties and assignments, and to remove or replace any of such employees at will and within his sole discretion.
(1964 Ga. Laws, page 2816, § 3; 1971 Ga. Laws, page 2441)
Sec. 2.82. - Collection and remittance of funds; financial records.
All fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, emoluments, and perquisites of whatever nature provided by law for services rendered by the judge of the probate court shall be charged and collected by said officer and shall be held by him as county funds. On or before the 15th day of each month, the judge of the probate court shall pay over to the fiscal authority of Houston County all such funds as shall have been collected by him for the county during the immediately preceding calendar month. The judge of the probate court shall keep such books and records as shall be prescribed by the governing authority of Houston County and all such records shall be open to the inspection of the public, the governing authority of Houston County and their auditors at all times during the hours for which said office is open for business.
(1964 Ga. Laws, page 2816, § 5)
Sec. 2.83. - Collection of funds due as of effective date of Act.
All fees, costs, fines, forfeitures, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, monies, payments into retirement system and all other emoluments which have accrued to the judge of the probate court at the time this act becomes effective and to which said officer is entitled and which remain uncollected at the time this act becomes effective, shall when collected be paid to said officer. He shall however, report the collection of any such fees to the governing authority of the county.
(1964 Ga. Laws, page 2816, § 6)
Secs. 2.84—2.95. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - MAGISTRATE COURT

Sec. 2.96. - Chief Magistrate.
The Chief Magistrate of Houston County shall be elected in the same manner as the judges of the State Court of Houston County. The first such election shall take place at the time of the general election in 2008, and the chief magistrate and magistrates elected at such time shall take office on January 1, 2009, for terms of four years and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. The chief magistrate and magistrates serving on the effective date of this Act shall serve through December 31, 2008. The chief magistrate elected as provided in this section shall be a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia, shall be a full-time magistrate, and shall devote his or her full time to the duties of the office. The chief magistrate shall be authorized to employ one or more assistant magistrates.
A vacancy in the office of chief magistrate shall be filled by an appointment by majority vote of the judges of Superior Court for the remainder of the unexpired term. A vacancy in the office of any other magistrate shall be filled by an appointment by the chief magistrate with the consent of the judges of Superior Court for the remainder of the unexpired term. A newly created position of magistrate shall be filled in the same manner as for filling a vacancy if such position is created more than 90 days from the next general election.
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 3652, § 1)
