ARTICLE VI. - STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND DRAINAGE SYSTEMS[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted August 4, 2020 , set out provisions intended for use as §§ 66-267—66-269. For purposes of preserving the style of this Code, and at the editor's discretion, these provisions have been included as §§ 66-280—66-282.

Sec. 66-280. - Construction plans and specifications submission; design and construction requirements; inspection.
Any person constructing a stormwater management or drainage systems within the city shall submit plans and specifications to and obtain approval from the city before construction is started. The city may also establish design and construction requirements that must be met before issuing approval. Plans and specifications shall be prepared by a state registered engineer and shall be subject to any necessary approvals by state and local agencies and public utilities prior to approval by the city. The city reserves the right to inspect construction during progress and upon completion.
(Ord. of 8-4-2020 , § I)
Sec. 66-281. - Ownership; responsibilities; conveyance of easements.
Any stormwater management or drainage system built within the city shall be the sole responsibility of the developer/builder unless the city expressly accepts ownership of said stormwater management or drainage system by the conveyance of an easement. Without acceptance by the city and the conveyance of an easement, the city shall bear no responsibility for the maintenance, repair or upkeep of any stormwater management or drainage system.
(Ord. of 8-4-2020 , § I)
Sec. 66-282. - Acceptance and conveyance of easement.
Any acceptance by the city of ownership and responsibility for the maintenance, repair and/or upkeep of any stormwater management or drainage system must be made by express approval of the city council. To complete any acceptance by the city, the developer/builder must convey an easement and the real estate associated with the stormwater management or drainage system to the city for ownership and/or usage in a legal manner acceptable to the city.
(Ord. of 8-4-2020 , § I)
