ARTICLE VII. - DISORDERLY CONDUCT

Sec. 42-161. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to establish the offenses of disorderly conduct and public drunkenness, to define same and to provide for penalties.
(Ord. No. 96-26, 5-21-1996)
Sec. 42-162. - Acts enumerated.
A person shall be guilty of the offense of disorderly conduct if he:
(1)
Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby any person is placed in fear of safety for his life, limb or health.
(2)
Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby public property or property of any other person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged.
(3)
Without provocation, uses to or of another person in such other person's presence, opprobrious or abusive words which by their very utterance tend to incite to an immediate breach of the peace, that is to say, words which as a matter of common knowledge and under ordinary circumstances will, when used to or of another person in such other person's presence, naturally tend to provoke violent resentment, that is, words commonly called "fighting words."
(4)
Without provocation, uses obscene and vulgar or profane language in the presence of or by telephone to a person under the age of 14 years which threatens an immediate breach of the peace.
(5)
Endangers lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence, angry threats or abusive conduct.
(6)
Causes, provokes or engages in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another or public property.
(7)
Assembles or congregates with another or others for the purpose of causing, provoking or engaging in any fight or brawl.
(8)
Jostles or roughly crowds or pushes any person in any public place.
(9)
Collects in bodies or in crowds for unlawful purposes.
(10)
Assembles or congregates with another or others for the purpose of or with the intent to engage in gaming or an animal or fowl fight.
(11)
Frequents any public place with intent to obtain money from another by an illegal and fraudulent scheme, trick, artifice or device.
(12)
Assembles with another or others for the purpose of engaging in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any place or from any person in the city, or aids or abets therein.
(13)
Utters, while in a state of anger, in the presence of another, any lewd or obscene words or epithets.
(14)
Acts in a dangerous manner toward others.
(15)
Assembles or congregates with another or others for the purpose of doing bodily harm to another.
(16)
By acts of violence, interferes with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation.
(17)
Congregates with another or others in or on any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear such public way when ordered to do so by a peace officer or other person having authority.
(18)
Makes any unreasonably loud noise.
(19)
Damages, befouls or disturbs public property or the property of another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically offensive condition.
(20)
Consumes alcoholic beverages on any public street, sidewalk or any other public property within the corporate limits of the city. Possession of open containers of alcoholic beverages or containers with the seal broken shall be prima facie evidence of consumption.
(21)
Consumes alcoholic beverages, whether in a vehicle or not, on any public or private parking lot within the corporate limits of the city, except those parking lots maintained at establishments holding a valid license from the city for on-premises consumption of alcoholic beverages. Possession of open containers of alcoholic beverages or containers with the seal broken shall be prima facie evidence of consumption.
(Ord. No. 96-26, art. I, 5-21-1996)
Sec. 42-163. - Reserved.
Sec. 42-164. - Penalty.
Any person charged with disorderly conduct shall be arrested and required to post bond prior to his release. Upon conviction of disorderly conduct, the offender shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. No. 96-26, art. III, 5-21-1996)
Secs. 42-165—42-180. - Reserved.
