ARTICLE IX. - PUBLIC INTOXICATION[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6.

Sec. 42-201. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to establish jurisdiction in the city municipal court to try the offense of public intoxication, to define same and to provide for penalties.
(Ord. No. 96-32, 6-18-1996)
Sec. 42-202. - Determination based on chemical analysis.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be drunk or intoxicated upon the public streets, sidewalks and parking lots or at any public place or public meeting within the city. If any person is charged with the offense of public intoxication, he shall submit to chemical analysis of the person's blood, urine, breath or other bodily substance. Upon the trial of the charge of public intoxication, evidence of the amount of alcohol or drug in a person's blood, urine, breath or other bodily substance at the alleged time, as determined by a chemical analysis of the person's blood, urine, breath or other bodily substance, shall be admissible. Where such a chemical test is made, the following provisions shall apply:
(1)
Chemical analysis of the person's blood, urine, breath or bodily substance, to be considered valid under this article, shall have been performed according to the methods approved by the division of forensic sciences of the state bureau of investigation on a machine which was operated with all its electronic and operating components prescribed by its manufacturer properly attached and in good working order and by an individual possessing a valid permit issued by the division of forensic sciences for this purpose. The division of forensic sciences of the state bureau of investigation shall approve satisfactory techniques or methods to ascertain the qualifications and competence of individuals to conduct analyses and to issue permits, along with requirements for properly operating and maintaining any testing instruments, and to issue certificates certifying that instruments have met those requirements, which certificates and permits shall be subject to termination or revocation at the discretion of the division of forensic sciences.
(2)
In any criminal trial, the refusal of the defendant to permit a chemical analysis to be made of his blood, breath, urine or other bodily substance at the time of his arrest shall be admissible in evidence against him.
(3)
When a person shall undergo a chemical test at the request of a law enforcement officer, only a physician, registered nurse, laboratory technician, emergency medical technician or other qualified person may withdraw blood for the purpose of determining the alcohol or drug content therein, provided that this limitation shall not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens.
(4)
The person tested may, at his own expense, have a physician or a qualified technician, chemist, registered nurse or other qualified person of his own choosing administer a chemical test in addition to any administered at the direction of a law enforcement officer. The justifiable failure or inability to obtain an additional test shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the test taken at the direction of a law enforcement officer.
(Ord. No. 96-32, art. I, 6-18-1996)
Sec. 42-203. - Acts constituting public intoxication.
A person shall be considered drunk or intoxicated when found upon the public streets, sidewalks and parking lots or in any public place or public meeting within the city while:
(1)
Under the influence of alcohol to the extent that the person creates a danger to himself or others;
(2)
The person's alcohol concentration is 0.10 grams or more at any time within three hours after his arrest from alcohol consumed before such arrest; or
(3)
There is any amount of marijuana or a controlled substance, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 16-13-21, present in the person's blood or urine, or both, including the metabolites and the derivatives of each or both without regard to whether or not any alcohol is present in the person's breath or blood.
(Ord. No. 96-32, art. II, 6-18-1996)
Sec. 42-204. - Probable cause.
An officer shall have probable cause to charge a suspect under this article if such person is found in possession of any illegal drugs or paraphernalia commonly associated with drugs of abuse and controlled substances, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-13-21. While possession of such paraphernalia shall not be a separate violation, it shall authorize an officer to request a sample of breath, blood, urine or other bodily substance, in order to determine whether or not the suspect is under the influence of any drugs or alcohol in violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 96-32, art. III, 6-18-1996)
Sec. 42-205. - Penalty.
Any person charged with public drunkenness or intoxication shall be arrested and required to post bond prior to his release. Upon conviction, the offender shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. No. 96-32, art. IV, 6-18-1996)
Secs. 42-206—42-230. - Reserved.
