ARTICLE II. - SEWER USE[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Dumping certain wastes in storm or sanitary sewers prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-2; authority to provide stormwater, sewage collection and disposal systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(6).

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 66-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) means the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in five days at 20 degrees Celsius, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l) or as parts per million (ppm).
Building drain means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
Building sewer means the extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal, also called "house connection."
City superintendent means the superintendent of water and sewer systems of the city, appointed by the city and authorized by the city to fulfill the requirements of this article and to be responsible for the operations of the water and sewer system.
Customer means any person, corporation, partnership, joint venture or public body that uses, has use of, has use for, or seeks to use the sewer system furnished by the city.
Developer means any person, corporation, partnership, joint venture, public body or legal entity that is selling, offering for sale, dividing, subdividing or developing property for residential, commercial or industrial use.
Easement means an acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others including such meaning as given under all applicable federal and state rules, regulations and statutes, including, without limitation, O.C.G.A. § 44-9-1.
Flammable means any material which is easily ignited and burns with unusual rapidity.
Floatable oil means oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection and/or treatment system.
Garbage means the animal and vegetable waste resulting from the domestic and commercial handling, preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
Industrial wastes means the wastewater or liquid waste, of whatever nature, arising out of any manufacturing, industrial processing, fabricating, treating, renovating, or other commercial trade or business operation, as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
Interceptor line, trunk line or outfall line means the sewer line leading from owner/developer's property to the city's existing sewer line, treatment plant or treatment plant site. Such lines normally collect sewage or could collect sewage from more than one property owner and transport the sewage to the sewage treatment plant.
Natural outlet means any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface water or groundwater.
Nitrification means the conversion of nitrogenous matter into nitrates.
Objectionable means unacceptable, unsatisfactory, or displeasing to the physical senses.
Outfall line. See Interceptor line.
Owner means any individual, firm, company, partnership, corporation, institution, trust, organization, executor, or administrator owning property in the city.
pH means the reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen in concentration. The concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution. Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7.0 and a hydrogen ion concentration of 10.7.
Phosphorus means the chemical element phosphorus and its several compounds. Phosphorus removal shall mean the removal of phosphorus and phosphorus compounds by biological or chemical treatment or a combination of both.
Pollution means dredged soil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical waste, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, industrial waste, municipal waste and agricultural waste discharged into the waters of the state.
Properly shredded garbage means the wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of foods that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any dimension.
Public sewer means a sanitary sewer owned and/or maintained by the city, and does not include building sewers or sewer connections or municipal sewers not under the city's jurisdiction.
Sanitary sewer means a sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions.
Sewage means the spent water of a community. The preferred term is wastewater. (See Wastewater.)
Sewage collector means all sewer lines, pumping stations and appurtenances thereto that are located on or required to be constructed in order to service the owner/developer's property with sewer service.
Sewer means a pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
Sewer system means all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, transporting, and disposing of sewage, and all appurtenances thereto.
Slug means any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation and which adversely affects the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
Standard Methods means the latest edition of the publication, Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, as published by the American Public Health Association, or such other equivalent testing methods as approved by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or the environmental protection division (EPD), state department of natural resources.
Suspended solids means total suspended matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in the most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
Total Kjeldahl nitrogen means the total of organic and ammonia nitrogen as defined in Standard Methods.
Trunk line. See Interceptor line.
Unpolluted water means water of a quality equal to or better than the effluent criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
Unsanitary means unclean, unhealthy, or harmful to public health.
Wastewater means the spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions. (See also Sewage.)
Wastewater facilities means the structures, equipment and processes required to collect, carry away, and treat residential, commercial and industrial wastes and dispose of effluent.
Wastewater treatment works means an arrangement of devices and structures for the treatment of wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge and such term shall also mean the sewage disposal system and sewage transportation system where applicable in construing the rules and regulations of the city and its legal documents and contracts; sometimes used as synonymous with the terms "waste treatment plant," "wastewater treatment plant" or "water pollution control plant."
Watercourse means a natural or artificial channel for the passage of water, whether continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. No. 94-4, §§ 101—145, 4-5-1994)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 66-32. - Deposit of excrement, garbage or other waste upon public or private property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 201, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-33. - Discharge of polluted water to natural outlets prohibited; exception.
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 202, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-34. - Destruction of or tampering with sewer system; liability and punishment of offender.
(a)
No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the sewer system of the city.
(b)
Any person violating this provision of this article shall become liable to the city for any loss, damage or expense incurred by the city including, but not limited to, all costs of labor, material expenses, loss of income, attorneys' fees, expert witness fees, court costs and litigation costs, by reason of such violation and shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. No. 94-4, §§ 601, 602, 4-5-1994)
Secs. 66-35—66-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 66-51. - Powers and authority of inspectors.
(a)
The city and other duly authorized employees of the city shall be permitted to enter all properties at reasonable times for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to discharge to the public sewer systems in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(b)
The city or other duly authorized employees of the city are authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection system.
(c)
The city and other duly authorized employees of the city shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly executed easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repairing and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities lying within such easement.
(Ord. No. 94-4, §§ 701—703, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-52. - Procedures for termination of sewer service.
(a)
Authority of city; procedure. The city shall be empowered to terminate water and sewer services for the failure of customers to pay their sewer bills or to comply with the terms of this article and any amendments thereto. The following procedure shall be followed prior to termination of sewer service:
(1)
Notice. The following written notice shall be forwarded to the customer and such notice shall appear on the current billing when the customer has a previous balance: "If there is a previous balance (on your account) and it is not paid within ten days, you are hereby required to appear at a hearing to be held at city hall (ten to 15) days from date of this bill (or next working day if this date is a holiday or weekend) at 9:30 a.m. to show cause why your service should not be terminated. You have ten days from said hearing date to file for injunctive relief in the superior court of the county; if not, service at this location will be terminated until account is paid in full."
(2)
Hearing. The hearing shall be set no earlier than ten days from the date of the letter and not later than 15 days from the date of this letter.
(3)
Resolution of billing discrepancies. If the customer and the clerk are unable to resolve any discrepancies that may appear in the bill, the customer shall have ten days from the date of the hearing in which to file for injunctive relief in the county superior court. If no injunction is filed within such time, sewer service to the customer shall be terminated.
(b)
Failure to pay bill and penalties after hearing; termination. If the customer fails to pay the bill and penalties prior to ten days after the date of the hearing, and does not file for injunctive relief, then said water and sewer services shall be terminated.
(c)
Officers authorized to conduct hearings. The clerk and/or assistant clerk of the city is hereby appointed and authorized to conduct in behalf of the city the hearings.
(Ord. No. 94-4, §§ 801—803, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-53. - Suspension of service.
(a)
Application of deposits to bill; refunds, if any. When sewer service is discontinued either by written notice from the customer to the city, or by acts of the city, the city shall apply the deposits to the balance of the water and sewer bill owed by the customer and refund the difference, if any exists, to the customer.
(b)
Right of city to discontinue service for enumerated reasons. The city reserves the right to discontinue its service without notice for the following reasons:
(1)
To prevent fraud or abuse.
(2)
The customer's willful or negligent disregard of the terms of this article and any amendments thereto or any of the rules of the city.
(3)
Emergency repairs.
(4)
Insufficiency of water and supply due to circumstances beyond the city's control.
(5)
Insufficiency of sewage treatment system.
(6)
Legal processes.
(7)
Direction of public authorities.
(8)
Strike, riot, fire, flood, unavoidable accident, actions of others, or acts of God.
(c)
Right of city to terminate for other reason by written notice and right to hearing. The city reserves the right to terminate the services granted by the city for any other reason other than those stated above by giving the customer ten days' written notice of the date of termination, and further providing the customer with a right to hearing prior to termination of the service.
(Ord. No. 94-4, §§ 901—903, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-54. - Fees and rates.
(a)
Authority of city to set. The city has the authority to set the sewer rates and service connection fees and meter installation fees, if applicable. The city reserves the right to change the rates and fees from time to time. A sewerage user fee is charged to the customer on a monthly basis for sewage processed by the city. The city will charge a minimum monthly fee to all sewer users. The rate schedule is set forth in the schedule of fees and charges.
(b)
Outside incorporated city limits. All sewer rates, service connection fees and meter installation fees, if applicable, for areas served outside the incorporated area of the city shall be twice the published fee for inside-city sewer rates and other applicable fees. This will apply to all new services served after April 5, 1994.
(c)
Service connection fee required. A service connection fee and a meter installation fee, if applicable, for a building sewer shall be paid to the city when the application is filed. Regardless of the type (new or existing) and location (main or lateral service line) of the sewer connection, all customers who place sewerage in the city's sewer system must pay the service connection fee and meter installation fee, if applicable, per the rate schedule in effect.
(d)
Sewerage bond fee. All customers using the city's water or sewer system, or both, are required to pay a sewerage bond fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. This applies to all classes of building sewer and water permits regardless of the type (new and existing) and location (main and lateral service line) of the service connection.
(e)
Additional fees or surcharges. In addition to the fees described in subsections (a)—(d) of this section, additional fees or surcharges may be collected by the city from time to time.
(f)
Notification of city of additions to customer's facilities. The customer shall notify the city 30 days prior to the commencement of any additions to the customer's present facilities to determine if sewage treatment facilities and sewage facilities are available and have adequate capacity to accommodate the anticipated additional usage.
(g)
Service deposit. The city may also require a service deposit prior to providing sewer service, either separately or in conjunction with a water meter deposit.
(h)
Default on payment of sewer fees or surcharges; termination of service until payment. If the payment of the sewer fees or any surcharge assessed is allowed to go into default by the customer, the city may take appropriate action to terminate the customer's water and sewer service until all sums due the city, including penalties, are paid in full.
(i)
Review of fees; adjustments. The city shall from time to time review the fees set forth in this section and adjust such fees as may be necessary to defray operational and maintenance costs and provide for financial capitalization including replacements and other system improvements. The city shall have the right from time to time to increase or decrease any sewer fees or sewer rates charged. Prior to any increase in rates or fees, the city shall notify the public by advertising the new rates or fees at least one time in the official newspaper of the county prior to the increase.
(j)
Right of city to refuse service to those not using city water. Except as otherwise negotiated and approved, the city reserves the right to refuse sewer service to any person not using city water.
(Ord. No. 94-4, §§ 1001—1012, 4-5-1994; Amend. of 6-3-1997, §§ 1—4)
Sec. 66-55. - Industrial waste surcharges.
(a)
Assessments for wastes exceeding authorized concentrations; enumeration. If the city authorizes any customer to discharge industrial wastes into the public sewers, such customer shall be charged and assessed a surcharge in addition to any sewer service charges if these wastes have a concentration greater than the following concentrations, which represent a relatively high strength domestic-type wastewater:
(1)
A five-day, 20 degrees Celsius biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 250 milligrams per liter (mg/l), which is also referred to as parts per million (ppm).
(2)
A suspended solids content of 250 mg/l.
(3)
For wastewater discharging to a treatment plant where nitrification is required, a total Kjeldahl nitrogen (TKN) and/or ammonia (NH3-N) of seven mg/l (separately or in combination).
(4)
For wastewater discharging to a treatment plant where phosphorus treatment is required, phosphorus and phosphorus compounds (as P) of 25 mg/l.
Such constituents shall be sampled and analyzed in accordance with Standard Methods or other analytical procedure approved by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or the regulatory agency of the state having jurisdiction. The surcharge shall be based on an average of at least three 24-hour composite samples (or composite samples during the daily discharge); or based on an average of at least six grab samples taken at different hours of operation over at least a three-day period. Where different processes are used or different products are manufactured, the highest strength discharge over a five-day period, as sampled above, shall be used as the basis of the surcharge. The amount of such surcharge, which may be charged and assessed against persons discharging industrial waste into the public sewers, shall reflect the cost incurred by the city in handling the excess of the previously listed constituents. This surcharge shall include a proportionate share of the operational and maintenance costs and replacement costs on the portions of the plant and affected sewer system and other incidental expenses (monitoring, testing and other).
(b)
Formulas for calculating surcharges. When any or all of the total suspended solids, BOD, phosphorus, TKN or ammonia of the wastewater accepted for admission to the city's sewer works exceeds the values described in subsection (a) of this section of these constituents, the excess concentration in any or all, as the case may be, shall be subject to a surcharge on the amount derived in accordance with the following formula:
Amount of surcharge in dollars = (pounds of excess constituent) × (prorated facility replacement cost per excess pound + prorated operational, maintenance and incidental costs per excess pound)
Excess poundage shall be figured as follows:
(Wastewater discharged in gallons × excess concentration in mg/l × 8.34 lbs./gallons) divided by 1,000,000.
Example:
1,000,000 gallons of wastewater
250 mg/l excess BOD
(500 mg/l - 250 mg/l)
Then:
Excess poundage =  1,000,000 × 250 × 8.34
1,000,000
(c)
Review of surcharge rates. The rates of surcharges shall be reviewed annually by the city in order that the factors in subsections (a) and (b) of this section may correctly represent current treatment costs and may be modified at any time.
(d)
Billing; right of city to inspect, sample and test. Industrial waste surcharges provided for in this division shall be prepared and rendered with the regular water and sewer bill. The city's water and wastewater superintendent or other duly authorized employee of the city shall be permitted to enter upon any properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measuring, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(e)
Computation based on water consumption. The volume of flow used to compute industrial waste surcharges shall be based upon metered, estimated or prorated water consumption as shown in the records of meter reading maintained by the city. If a person discharging waste into the public sewer system produces evidence to the city that a significant portion of the total annual volume of water used for all purposes does not reach the public sewer system, an estimated percentage of total water consumption to be used in computing charges may be agreed upon between the city and persons discharging industrial waste into the sewer.
(f)
Annual inspection; determination of character and concentration of waste; methods. The industrial waste of each person, corporation or legal entity discharging such waste into the public sewer system shall be subject to annual inspection and determination of character and concentration of such waste. Such action may be made more often as may be deemed necessary by the city. Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be representative of the actual quality of the waste. The laboratory methods used in examination of the waste shall be those set forth in Standard Methods.
(g)
Dispute over analysis; resampling and gauging procedure. If an analysis of waste, determined by the sampling and gauging of waste from a person or industry by the city, is disputed, a program of resampling and gauging, with subsequent chemical determinations, may be instituted as follows:
(1)
The person or industrial user interested must submit a request for resampling and gauging of their waste to the city by letter and bind themselves to bear the expenses incurred by the city in the resampling and gauging the subsequent chemical determination of the waste.
(2)
The chemist or engineer employed by the company or person responsible for the request submitted to the city must confer with the city's person in charge of gauging and sampling. They will establish the length of the rerun and the methods to be employed to determine the flow and to sample the flow.
(3)
The chemist or engineer engaged by the person or industry may be present during the gauging and sampling operation and also in the laboratory during the determination of the analysis.
(4)
The results of the analysis, determined from the quantity and quality of the flow, shall be considered by analysis of record.
(Ord. No. 94-4, §§ 1201—1207, 4-5-1994; Amend. of 6-3-1997, §§ 5, 6)
Sec. 66-56. - Violation of article; penalties and fines.
(a)
Violation notice; hearing. Any person found violating any provision of this article shall be served by the city with a written notice stating the nature of the violation and setting forth the time and place for the hearing on the matter.
(b)
Penalty for violation of article. Any person who is found to have violated any provision of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 1-11, and shall further pay as restitution to the city any expense, loss or damage incurred by the city for such violation.
(c)
Liability of violator to city for expenses, losses or damages. Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall also become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage incurred by the city by reason of such violation.
(d)
Court proceedings. All such violations shall be presented to and tried before the municipal court of the city unless otherwise specifically required by state or federal law to be tried in some other court. The court shall determine the amount of the fine or sentence that may be appropriate in the matter. The court shall also determine the amount of restitution, expenses, loss, or damages that have been incurred by the city as a result of the violation.
(e)
Fines. All fines paid by the violator shall be made payable to the city.
(f)
Funds collected in court determinations. All funds determined by the court and collected for restitution or reimbursement of expense, loss or damage shall be paid to the city.
(Ord. No. 94-4, §§ 1301—1306, 4-5-1994)
Secs. 66-57—66-75. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS

Sec. 66-76. - Permit required.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereto without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 301, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-77. - Classes of building sewer permits; application; fees.
There shall be 11 classes of building sewer permits, which are:
(1)
Residential/single-family;
(2)
Residential/multifamily;
(3)
Motel;
(4)
Service station;
(5)
Restaurant;
(6)
Hospital, nursing home;
(7)
Industrial/commercial/office, no food services, no showers;
(8)
Industrial/commercial/office, no food services, with showers;
(9)
Industrial/commercial/office with food services, with/without showers;
(10)
Retail stores and shopping centers; and
(11)
Car washes.
In all cases the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent to the judgment of the city. Before connection is made to the public sewer, all connection fees shall be paid as required by the city. The service connection fee and meter installation fee, if applicable shall be in addition to any building permits and other fees required by the city.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 302, 4-5-1994; Amend. of 6-3-1997, §§ 7, 8)
Sec. 66-78. - Costs and expenses borne by owner; indemnification of city.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 303, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-79. - Separate and independent sewer required for each building; exceptions.
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for each building, except as otherwise approved for and in unusual circumstances, primarily involving existing buildings. A separate and independent building sewer and connection shall be provided for each residential, commercial and industrial business unit of multiunit building, except as otherwise approved.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 304, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-80. - Use of old sewers.
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the city, to meet all requirements of this article. All costs associated with the examination and test shall be borne by the owner. A service connection fee and meter installation fee, if applicable, shall be paid in accordance with section this article.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 305, 4-5-1994; Amend. of 6-3-1997, § 9)
Sec. 66-81. - Sewer materials.
The building sewer shall be vitrified clay sewer pipe with rubber seal joints or cast or ductile iron roll pipe with rubber seal joints. Heavy-duty plastic pipe may also be used with the approval of the city.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 306, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-82. - Size and slope.
The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the approval of the city, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four inches. The slope of such four-inch pipe shall not be less than one-eighth inch per foot.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 307, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-83. - Elevation.
Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from the front. The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe and fittings.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 308, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-84. - Lifting of sewage.
In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall be lifted by approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 309, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-85. - Excavations, pipelaying and backfilling.
All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the city. Pipelaying and backfill shall be performed in a manner approved by the city.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 310, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-86. - Joints and connections.
All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 311, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-87. - Jointing of sewer pipe; materials specifications and methods.
Material for factory applied joints on sewer pipe shall be the latest approved standard, and manufactured by the pipe manufacturer or approved equal. When jointing sewer pipe, the joint surfaces and pipe interior shall be wiped free of dirt, dust, gravel, or other foreign materials and connected in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations or as otherwise approved by the city. Where vitrified clay pipe with factory applied couplings are used, it shall be connected by first brushing the mating surface with proper lubricant sealer as recommended by the pipe supplier. The spigot end shall then be centered on grade into the bell end of the last downstream clay pipe length and properly seated by application of a moderate force with a pry or lever device. The pipes shall be joined within five minutes after the application of the lubricant sealer. Other jointing materials and methods may be used only by approval of the city.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 312, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-88. - Connection of building sewer to public sewer at wye branch; other methods.
Connection of a building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the wye branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less, and a wye is not available, the city shall, at the expense of the owner, install a wye branch in the public sewer at the location determined by the city. When the public sewer is greater than 12 inches in diameter, and no approved wye branch is available, the city shall, at the expense of the owner, cut a hole into the public sewer, with entry in the downstream direction at an angle of about 45 degrees, and install a 45-degree bend with the spigot end cut so as not to extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert of the building sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or at a higher elevation than the invert of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made, and the connection made secure and watertight by encasement in concrete. Special fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the city.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 313, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-89. - Guarding of excavations; restoration of public property.
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be properly guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed by the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 315, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-90. - Cutting or excavation permit; bond.
All persons installing sewer service connections for hire in the city shall, before cutting any street, sidewalk or public property, and before connecting any service line to the public sewer, obtain a permit from the city for the cutting of any streets, sidewalks or public property. Plumbers shall furnish to the city a good and sufficient bond to hold the city harmless from liability arising from any excavation, cut-in or other work performed along or across any public right-of-way before a license is issued. Such bond shall be in a form approved by the city in an amount established from time to time by the city and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 316, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-91. - Responsibility and property of landowner.
All building sewers and connections, to the city's collector line, shall be the responsibility and property of the landowner. The city shall not have ownership for the building sewers and connections nor responsibility for maintenance of the building sewers and connections.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 317, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-92. - Plumbing work to be in accord with city and state codes; subject to inspection.
All plumbing shall be in accordance with applicable city and state codes and requirements and shall be subject to inspection by the city.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 318, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-93. - Additional rules and regulations.
The city may from time to time enact separate technical, construction and other rules and regulations for building sewers and connections to supplement or clarify the requirements of this article. Where technical and construction requirements are not otherwise covered in this article, appropriate specifications or standards of the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) or the Water Environment Federation (WEF) Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply, unless otherwise covered by supplementary rules and regulations of the city.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 319, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-94. - Inspection and approval; payment of fees and charges prior to use.
All building sewers and connections must be inspected and approved and all applicable fees/charges paid before wastewater can be discharged to any city sewer.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 320, 4-5-1994)
Secs. 66-95—66-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - SEWER CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 66-111. - Responsibility for operation and maintenance of system; application for extensions considered after annexation of property.
The operation and maintenance of all public sanitary sewerage shall be the responsibility of the city. Any application for extensions of existing or construction of future sewer lines outside the incorporated area of the city will be considered for approval only after the affected property is annexed into the city.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 401, 4-5-1994; Amend. of 6-3-1997, § 10)
Sec. 66-112. - Discharge into system with city approval only; additional sewer taps permitted.
No person or governments outside the limits of the city shall discharge or cause to be discharged any material into the sanitary sewer system of the city without prior approval of the city. The city may accept leachate at its sewerage treatment facilities from other EPD or EPA permitted facilities or landfills whether inside or outside the incorporated area of the city, subject to sections 66-138, 66-139 and 66-140. The city shall have the right to set the fee for this service.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 402, 4-5-1994; Amend. of 6-3-1997, § 11)
Sec. 66-113. - Construction plans and specifications submission; design and construction requirements; inspection; review; conveyance of easements.
Any person constructing sewer systems shall submit plans and specifications to and obtain approval from the city before construction is started. The city may also establish design and construction requirements that must be met before issuing approval. Plans and specifications shall be prepared by a state registered engineer and shall be subject to any necessary approvals by state and local agencies and public utilities prior to approval by the city. The city reserves the right to inspect construction during progress and upon completion, prior to acceptance. The city may also review designs and inspect construction on behalf of the city. Any easements and real estate associated with the sewer systems (i.e., sewer line easements across private property and sewage pumping station property) shall be conveyed to the city for ownership and/or usage in a legal manner acceptable to the city.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 403, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-114. - Final inspection.
Prior to any sewer systems being placed in use, a final inspection of the system must be conducted by the city. If such inspection shows any irregularities or failure to comply with approved plans and specifications, the contractor, landowner or developer shall make, all corrections at their own expense.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 404, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-115. - Conveyance to city by owner of sewer lines and appurtenances, including easements.
Prior to any sewer systems being placed in use, the owner of the property shall convey to the city the sewer lines and appurtenances required by the city, free and clear of any encumbrance, together with an easement of sufficient width as required by the city for the maintenance and repair of the sewer line or appurtenance thereto.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 405, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-116. - Preparation of plats by owner.
The owner or developer shall have plats prepared at his own expense by a registered land surveyor or registered engineer authorized to do business in the state. The plats shall be in recordable form properly describing adequate easements upon which any public sewer system is to be located. The plats shall be delivered to the city for their review.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 406, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-117. - Costs and expenses.
All costs and expenses for the construction of the sewer system shall be borne by the property owner. The property owner shall indemnify the city from any and all loss or damage including, but not limited to, attorney's fees, court costs, expert witness fees, engineering fees and judgments that it incurs which may be directly or indirectly occasioned by the installation of the sewer system.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 407, 4-5-1994)
Secs. 66-118—66-135. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS

Sec. 66-136. - Discharge of unpolluted waters prohibited; exception.
(a)
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted waters such as stormwater, groundwater, roof runoff or subsurface drainage to any sewer. Connection, directly or indirectly, to roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, area drains, or other sources of surface runoff is not permitted to a building drain or building sewer connected to a public sanitary sewer. Existing connections of such items to a building sewer shall be disconnected at no expense to the city when the building sewer is connected to the public sewer system.
(b)
Unpolluted industrial cooling water or process water may be discharged, on approval of the city, to a sanitary sewer, if the water otherwise meets the requirements and specifications of this article.
(Ord. No. 94-4, §§ 501, 502, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-137. - Use by unauthorized persons.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or open, use, alter or disturb any public sanitary sewer or appurtenance.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 503, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-138. - Prohibited discharges.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters, wastes, substances or materials to any public sewers:
(1)
Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas.
(2)
Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other substances, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant.
(3)
Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment, and the personnel of the wastewater works, or any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.0.
(4)
Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshing, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage grinders (size may not be greater than one-half inch in any dimension).
(5)
Wastes at a flow rate and/or pollutant discharge rate which is excessive over relatively short time periods so that there is a treatment process upset and subsequent loss of treatment efficiency.
(6)
Any other circumstances that from time to time may be listed by the city.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 504, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-139. - Discharge limitations.
The following described substances, materials, waters, or waste shall be limited in discharges to public sanitary sewers to concentrations or quantities which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or equipment, will not have any adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The city may set limitations lower than the limitations established in the regulations in this section if, in its opinion, such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the objectives of this section. In forming its opinion as to the acceptability, the city will give consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers; materials or construction of the sewer; the wastewater treatment process employed and wastewater discharge requirements; capacity of the wastewater treatment plant; degree of treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant; and the toxicity of the pollutant, its persistence, degradability and other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be violated without approval of the city are as follows:
(1)
Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150 degrees Fahrenheit (65 degrees Celsius).
(2)
Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or products of mineral oil origin.
(3)
Wastewater from industrial plants containing oils, fats, or grease in excess of 100 milligrams per liter.
(4)
Any garbage that has not been properly shredded (any dimension greater than one-half inch). Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by caterers.
(5)
Any waters or wastes containing the following constituents at a concentration greater than the following fixed upper limits measured in parts per million by weight:
EXPAND
Constituent Limit
Arsenic 1.0
Barium 5.0
Cadmium 0.4
Chromium 3.0
Cobalt 1.6
Copper 0.7
Cyanide 1.0
Lead 2.0
Mercury 1.0
Nickel 2.0
Silver 1.0
Zinc 3.0
Phenolics 0.2
Tin 2.5
Herbicides 0.0
Fungicides 0.0
Pesticides 0.0
Total metals 8.0
  Any waters or wastes containing similar objectionable or toxic substances to such a degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the treatment works exceeds the limits established by the city or any limits established by federal statutes and regulations or state statutes and regulations.
Where advance treatment, including nitrification, is required, the city may require less than certain aforementioned metal and toxic discharges if necessary for the city to meet state/federal discharge permit requirements.
(6)
Any waters or wastes containing more than 1.0 part per million by weight (ppm or mg/l) of the following gases: hydrogen sulphide, sulphur dioxide or nitrous oxide, or any other noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or preventing entrance into sewers for their maintenance, inspection and repair.
(7)
Any high-level radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by Public Law 92-500, section 31 (33 USC 1311), or amendments thereto, and the federal regulations promulgated thereunder or state regulations, or exceed limits established by the city.
(8)
Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both, which constitute a slug.
(9)
Any waters or wastes having a five-day BOD in excess of 250 milligrams per liter (mg/l) by weight on a 24-hour composite basis, except as otherwise permitted with a surcharge.
(10)
Any waters or wastes having suspended solids contents in excess of 250 milligrams per liter (mg/l) by weight on a 24-hour composite basis, except as otherwise permitted with a surcharge.
(11)
Where nitrification treatment is required, any waters or wastes having total Kjeldahl nitrogen or ammonia (separately or in combination) in excess of 25 milligrams per liter (mg/l) by weight on a 24-hour composite basis, except as otherwise permitted with a surcharge.
(12)
Where phosphorus removal is required at the treatment facility, any waters or wastes having phosphorus or phosphorus compounds (as P) in excess of seven milligrams per liter (mg/l) by weight on a 24-hour composite basis, except as otherwise permitted with a surcharge.
(13)
Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment process employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
(14)
Any waters or wastes which, by interaction with other waters or wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
(15)
Waters or wastes containing taste- or odor-producing contaminants in such quantities that after treatment of sewage these contaminants impart their tastes or odors to receiving waters to a detrimental degree.
(16)
Waters or wastes colored by dye or other such solutions to such a degree that the color is not sufficiently removed by treatment to cause problems or adverse effects to receiving water.
(17)
Any contaminant which the city or its designated agent deems harmful to the operation or efficiency of wastewater treatment plants, or to the health and welfare of the residents of the city.
(18)
Ground paper products shall be prohibited from being discharged into the public sewer system, unless otherwise approved by the city.
(19)
Discharge of materials or substances which would cause the effluent quality from sewage treatment plants to violate state and federal standards.
(20)
Any discharge at a temperature which will cause the temperature of the wastewater in the sewer system to increase to 120 degrees Fahrenheit, or above.
(21)
Any other circumstances that from time to time may be listed by the city.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 505, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-140. - Discharges creating deleterious effects; actions by city.
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in sections 64-138 and 64-139, and which, in the judgment of the city, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard of life or constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
(1)
Discontinue service and/or reject the wastes;
(2)
Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the public sewers;
(3)
Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
(4)
Require payment to cover added costs of handling and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of section 66-148.
If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the city, and of the environmental protection division, department of natural resources of the state, and other regulatory agencies having jurisdiction. If the owner or operator is not in compliance, the city will grant a reasonable time period for the owner or operator to take corrective measures before service is discontinued. An owner or operator of any source to which the pretreatment standards are applicable shall comply with 40 CFR 403, as the same may, from time to time, be amended or replaced.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 506, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-141. - Industrial new sources to comply with federal standards.
Any industrial "new source" (as defined in Public Law 92-500, section 316 (33 USC 3161) as the same may, from time to time, be amended or replaced) contributed to the publicly owned wastewater treatment works shall comply with the requirements of such cited statute and the regulations promulgated thereunder (40 CFR 403 as the same may, from time to time, be amended or replaced) establishing federal standards of performance for new sources within the contributor's particular category.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 507, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-142. - Industrial sources of pollutants to comply with federal effluent standards.
Any industrial source of pollutants shall comply with the effluent standards or prohibition of each designated pollutant or combination of pollutants as established by Public Law 92-500, section 307 (33 USC 1317, as the same may, from time to time, be amended or replaced) and the regulations promulgated thereunder. Furthermore, any industrial source of pollutant shall comply with the pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants into publicly owned treatment works as established by Public Law 92-500, section 307 (33 USC 1317, as the same may, from time to time, be amended or replaced) and the regulations promulgated thereunder, for those pollutants which are designated by the federal regulations as being unsusceptible to treatment by such treatment works or which would interfere with the operation of such treatment works.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 508, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-143. - Industrial users also to comply with federal standards for inspection, monitoring and entry requirements.
Any industrial user or source which is required to comply with the standards of performance effluent standards or pretreatment standards established by Public Law 92-500, sections 306 and 307, and the federal regulations promulgated thereunder shall further comply with the inspection, monitoring and entry requirements of Public Law 92-500, section 308 (33 USC 1317) and the federal regulations promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 509, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-144. - Grease, oil and sand interceptors.
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when in the opinion of the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid waste containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in section 66-139(3), or any flammable wastes, sand, any substance which becomes viscous or solidifies at a temperature above 32 degrees Fahrenheit (0 degrees Celsius) or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the city, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the city. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed by the owner's personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms. A copy of all disposal records, including dates of cleaning and disposal of collected materials, means of disposal, and place of disposal, must be furnished to the city by any such waste disposal firm each time an interceptor is cleaned.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 510, 4-5-1994; Ord. No. 99-5, § 1, 5-4-1999)
Sec. 66-145. - Pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities.
Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his expense. The owner shall submit operation and laboratory data on a monthly basis to the city. The city or EPD shall determine the proper procedures.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 511, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-146. - Observation, sampling and measurement.
When required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances, in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the waste by the city. Such structure, when required, shall be accessible and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the city. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his expense and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 512, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-147. - Measurements, tests and analyses; methods.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association. Sampling methods, location, times, durations, and frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis, subject to approval by the city.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 513, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-148. - Special agreements between city and industrial concerns.
No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and an industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment. The city may levy a surcharge for the treatment of such waste.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 514, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-149. - Accidental spills; notification; required action.
In the event of an accidental spill or an unavoidable loss to the drains of any deleterious material or substances, the person concerned shall promptly inform the manager, or the city's designated agent, of the nature, quantity and time of occurrence of the spill. The person concerned shall take all possible actions to prevent a spill, and should a spill occur, shall take immediate steps to ensure no recurrence of the spill. Where there exists an approved drain to the sanitary sewer in an area where there is the potential for a leak or spill of toxic, flammable material or harmful substance an emergency block valve on the sanitary sewer downstream of the aforementioned drain shall be required.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 515, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-150. - Variances.
Any person, upon written application to the city, who shows, in the case of the activity being conducted or operated, that compliance with a section of this article would either be impossible or would constitute an undue hardship because of time limitations, may be granted a variance. If a variance is granted by the city, it shall be only for such reasonable period of time as determined by the city under the specified conditions set by the city. If the person to whom the variance is granted fails to comply with the specifications of the city within the time set, the city shall have the right to revoke the variance granted and terminate all service (water and wastewater and sewer) to the customer until all requirements of the city have been complied with. A variance shall not be granted under the provisions of this section where the person applying therefor is causing a nuisance or other injury to the public. Any variance granted under the provisions of this section shall not relieve the person receiving the variance from any liability or penalties imposed by law for the commission or maintenance of a public nuisance.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 516, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-151. - Septic tank and portable toilet discharge.
No person shall discharge or empty any contents of septic tanks and portable toilets into the wastewater system of the city.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 517, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-152. - Violation of division; termination of service prior to abatement and payment of damages.
Should a customer (user) be found to be in violation of the restrictions on public sewer use as provided in this division, the city may take appropriate action to terminate the customer's water and sewer service until such time as the violation is abated and payment is made to the city for any damages caused thereby to the sewer system.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 518, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-153. - Civil or criminal action.
Should any person who is not a customer of the city be found in violation of the restrictions on public sewer use as provided in this division, the city may take appropriate action to have civil and/or criminal action taken against such person violating the terms of this article.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 519, 4-5-1994)
Secs. 66-154—66-170. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - OBTAINING SEWER SERVICE

Sec. 66-171. - Delivery by owner of plat of survey and letter of intended use of property.
Any owner/developer desiring sewer service to his property shall deliver to the city a plat of survey of the property to be sewered along with a letter setting forth the intended uses of the property.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 1101, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-172. - Owner to construct all required sewer lines and facilities.
The owner/developer of the property will be required to construct, at his own expense, any and all sewer lines and sewer facilities that are located on the owner/developer's property that are determined by the city to be needed for the adequate sewering of the property or that are required to service the owner/developer's property.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 1102, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-173. - Owner to provide contractor; facilities constructed to city specifications; inspection; insurance required.
The owner/developer will employ its own contractor to construct the sewer lines from the owner/developer's property to the city's nearest facilities having capacity to process the sewage generated from such property. The sewer lines, appurtenances thereto, and other facilities required will be constructed according to the specifications of the city and will be inspected by the city prior to covering. The contractor shall deliver to the city prior to the commencement of work a certificate of insurance which will insure and protect the city from all claims of damage to person or property occurring as a result of the construction.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 1103, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-174. - Enlargement of sewer lines; costs.
If the city determines that it is in the best interest of the city to enlarge the sewer lines and sewer system facilities from the owner/developer's property line to the sewer system facilities, the owner/developer shall be responsible for 100 percent of the cost for the increased size of sewer line and sewer facilities.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 1104, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-175. - Obtaining easements; costs.
The owner/developer shall make a good faith effort to obtain all easements required to install the sewer lines from the owner/developer's property to city's facility. In the event an owner/developer is unable to obtain the sewer easements required, the owner/developer shall notify the city in writing. The city will then determine the anticipated costs for condemning the easements required and notify the owner/developer in writing. Upon the owner/developer depositing with the city the estimated costs, the city will authorize its attorney to proceed with condemnation of the easement. If the costs exceed the amount estimated by the city, the owner/developer shall pay to the city the additional costs within ten days from the receipt of notification. Failure to pay such funds within the allotted time will result in the city placing a fi. fa. upon owner/developer's property. If estimated costs paid to the city exceed the actual costs incurred, the excess funds will be returned to the person initially paying the funds within 30 days after date of determination of actual costs involved. Costs shall include, but not be limited to, the amount paid by the city for the easement or title to property, all attorneys' fees, expert witness fees, court costs, litigation expenses and any out-of-pocket funds expended by the city.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 1105, 4-5-1994)
Sec. 66-176. - Surveying property; costs.
The city will employ its own surveyor or engineer to survey the property upon which the easement or title to property is required to carry the sewer line from the owner/developer's property to the city's existing facility. An estimated cost of such expense will be provided by the city to the owner/developer in writing, and the owner/developer shall deposit such funds with the city. Upon receipt of the estimated costs, the city will proceed to survey the property and have the easements prepared by the city's attorney. If the costs exceed the amount estimated by the city, the owner/developer shall pay to the city the additional costs within ten days from the receipt of notification. Failure to pay the funds within the allotted time will result in the city placing a fi. fa. upon the owner/developer's property. If estimated costs paid to the city exceed the actual costs incurred, the excess funds will be returned to the person initially paying such funds within 30 days after the date of determination of actual costs involved. Costs shall include, but not be limited to, the amount paid by the city for the easement or title to property, all attorney's fees, expert witness fees, court costs, litigation expenses and any out-of-pocket funds expended by the city.
(Ord. No. 94-4, § 1106, 4-5-1994)
Secs. 66-177—66-220. - Reserved.
