ARTICLE XI. - LICENSED AUTHORIZED BREWER

Sec. 10-390. - Licensed authorized brewer.
modified
(a)
There is hereby created a license for the business of operating a brewery, to manufacture malt beverages and beer, and which shall be in conformance with the laws of the State of Georgia pursuant to O.C.G.A§3-5-20, et seq. as amended and this article. In order to operate as a brewer within the City of Jasper, Georgia, the brewer shall be required to provide a copy of any brewery license issued as to the brewery by the Department of the Treasury, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, and any State of Georgia brewer license, when issued. Applicant may receive and authorized brewer license from the City of Jasper, Georgia, prior to the issuance of the federal or state license, or both, but may not operate the brewery until such time as the applicant has received the applicable federal and state licenses, and provide a copy of said licenses to the City of Jasper, Georgia.
(b)
Under this article, the licensee shall be authorized to carry on the business of manufacturing malt beverages and beer within the incorporated limits of the City of Jasper, Georgia. The licensee shall follow all federal and state requirements regarding the operation of a brewery, including but not limited to the payment of any excise taxes assessed by said authorities. Failure of the licensee to operate the brewery in accordance with the federal and state requirements shall be due cause for the City of Jasper, Georgia to suspend or revoke, or both the authorized brewer license upon compliance with the procedures as set forth in the City of Jasper's Alcohol License Ordinance. An authorized brewer license shall only be revoked for due cause. Due cause for the revocation of a brewer's license shall consist only of violation of the laws regulating the manufacture of malt beverages and of regulations made pursuant to authority lawfully granted for the purpose of regulating the manufacture of malt beverages or other violations of Georgia Law. Every unrevoked license authorizing the manufacture of malt beverages, whether issued by the State or by any other duly authorized licensing authority, shall be renewable to the holder of the license as a right upon the payment of fees and taxes lawfully assessed and fixed for the issuance of licenses of that kind and character.
(c)
An applicant to receive an authorized brewer license shall be required to submit an application for said license based upon the malt beverages for sale by the package application, but shall indicate thereon that applicant is applying as a brewer, and is required to meet the same requirements regarding application information, the submission of the application, distant prohibitions, and other such package requirements as provided by the Code except brewers may serve their product on site. Brewers do not have to meet food sale requirements to obtain and operate a brewery.
(d)
(1)
An authorized brewer holding a valid brewer license from the City of Jasper, Georgia, and which has provided a copy of the annual permit issued to the brewer by the Georgia Department of Revenue Commissioner and the appropriate Federal Department of the Alcohol & Tobacco.
(2)
Reserved.
(3)
Reserved.
(4)
Reserved.
(5)
Reserved.
(6)
Reserved.
(7)
Reserved.
( Ord. of 7-2-2018 (1.D.) )
Secs. 10-391—10-399. - Reserved.
new
