Chapter 10 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70 et seq.; authority to adopt temporary or experimental traffic regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(19).

Sec. 10-1. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions other than those functions for which military forces or state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of a manmade or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, acts of domestic or international terrorism, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, radiological action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, emergency medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, protection against the effects of radiological, chemical and other special weapons to include weapons of mass destruction, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, consequence management functions to include victim services, emergency transportation, plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to the civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out the foregoing functions.
(Code 2000, § 22-31; Res. of 5-12-1995, § I)
Sec. 10-2. - Office of the county emergency management director.
In agreement with the governing officials of the cities within the county, there is hereby established the county emergency management agency. The chairperson of the board of commissioners, with concurrence of the mayors of cities within the county, shall nominate for appointment by the director of the state emergency management agency, a person qualified to serve as director of emergency management for the entire county. When appointed, the county emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of the county and cities therein on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assist county and city officials in organizing county and city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with county and city departments, the county plan for emergency functions set forth in section 10-1. Such plan will be in consonance with the state emergency operations plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities therein for approval, and then to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
Maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
Submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices (e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.).
(6)
Obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operating center.
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of an emergency, and under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Code 2000, § 22-32; Res. of 5-12-1995, § II)
Sec. 10-3. - County emergency management agency.
The county emergency management agency shall be established around existing county and city departments and the emergency functions listed in section 10-1 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department/Agency
Functions
Chairperson, county commissioners, mayors of cities Direction and control
Sheriff's office Law enforcement services
Evacuation services
Emergency management agency Emergency public information communications and warning
Damage assessment services specific impact hazards
Fire department Search rescue services
Fire services
Radiological protection
Hazardous materials (specific impact hazard)
Public works Public works services
School superintendent Transportation services food services
Health department Medical and deceased identification services
Clerk's office Resources management
Department of family and children services Human services
Emergency shelter service
Emergency medical services department Emergency medical services
  Heads of departments listed above are responsible for developing appropriate annexes to the local emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Code 2000, § 22-33; Res. of 5-12-1995, § III)
Sec. 10-4. - Powers during an emergency or disaster.
In the event of a technological disaster, a natural disaster, an actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the chairperson of the board of commissioners, jointly with the mayors of the affected cities, or in their absences, their legally appointed successors, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
Enforcement of all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and assuming direct operational control over all emergency management resources;
(2)
Seizing or taking for temporary use, any private property for the protection of the public;
(3)
Selling, lending, giving, or distributing all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and maintaining a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies; and
(4)
Performing and exercising such other functions and duties, and taking such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Code 2000, § 22-34; Res. of 5-12-1995, § IV)
Sec. 10-5. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the county and cities therein, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county and city officers and employees.
(Code 2000, § 22-35; Res. of 5-12-1995, § V)
Sec. 10-6. - Penalty for violation.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished for committing a misdemeanor.
(Code 2000, § 22-36; Res. of 5-12-1995, § VI)
