Chapter 14 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
modified
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to provide police and fire protection, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(1); regulation of fire and other hazards to persons and property generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-1 et seq.; local fire departments generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Fee for fire department response.
County fire services will collect from insurance companies providing structure fire insurance on structures located within the boundaries of the county a reasonable and excepted fee for fire department response during structure fires to insured locations. County fire services will make reasonable efforts to collect fees from insuring companies.
(Res. of 3-1-2010)
Secs. 14-2—14-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OPEN BURNING[2]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Notice of intention to burn woods, marshes, O.C.G.A. § 12-6-90.

Sec. 14-21. - Restrictions and procedures.
No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or rubbish fire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained without first obtaining a permit to burn through the state forestry commission and then notifying the county communications center. The person shall advise the county communications center of the permit number issued by the state forestry commission, the name of the responsible person burning, the address of the burn location, and a contact number for the burn location or responsible party. During construction or demolition of buildings or structures, no waste materials or rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on the premises or in the immediate vicinity without having obtained a permit as referred to in this section.
(Code 2000, § 30-31; Ord. of 4-5-1999, § I(A))
Sec. 14-22. - Safety precautions required.
After obtaining a permit to burn, the following safety precautions shall be observed:
(1)
No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or rubbish fire, or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained on any privately owned land, unless:
a.
No building or structure shall be located within 50 feet of the actual or proposed location of the fire and adequate provisions shall be made to prevent a fire from spreading to within 50 feet of any building or structure.
b.
The fire shall be contained in a safe location and not less than 50 feet from any building or structure.
(2)
Bonfires and rubbish fires shall be constantly attended by a competent person until such fire is extinguished.
(3)
The person so attending a fire shall have an adequate water supply or have other fire extinguishing equipment readily available for use to control the fire.
(Code 2000, § 30-32; Ord. of 4-5-1999, § I(B))
Sec. 14-23. - Controlled burns.
The restrictions of this article will not in any way prohibit the use of controlled burns as an accepted agricultural practice on farmlands and in woodlands. However, the individual in charge of the controlled burn will obtain a permit as prescribed in this article so that county fire agencies will have knowledge of the date, time and magnitude of the controlled burn.
(Code 2000, § 30-33; Ord. of 4-5-1999, § I(C))
Sec. 14-24. - Penalties.
Individuals in violation of this article will be left to the discretion of the authority having jurisdiction, as to whether a warning or a citation will be given for the first offense. Each person convicted of violating this article will be cited and fined up to a maximum of $50.00 for each offense. All commercial burning in violation of this article will be left to the discretion of the authority having jurisdiction, as to whether a warning or citation will be given for the first offense. For the second and subsequent offense, each person convicted of violating this article will be cited and fined up to a maximum of $500.00 for each offense. In certain instances, individuals may also be charged under state and federal environmental protection agency and forestry regulations.
(Code 2000, § 30-34; Ord. of 4-5-1999, § I(D))
