Chapter 30 - SOLID WASTE[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Acceptable waste means waste generated from day to day living in a household. The term "acceptable waste" does not include, furniture, carpets, appliances, white goods, motor vehicle parts, sheetrock, roofing shingles, window frames, mattresses, fluorescent light tubes, building materials, and commercial waste, inert waste, which are all considered nonacceptable waste as defined by this chapter.
City means the City of Hazelhurst, Georgia.
Garbage means putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
Hazardous waste means:
(1)
Solid or liquid waste material resulting from the manufacture or use of pesticides and drugs (other than normal household use);
(2)
Pathological wastes;
(3)
Fluorescent light tubes;
(4)
Highly flammable or explosive wastes;
(5)
Toxic wastes;
(6)
Sewage sludge, asbestos, oil or petroleum by-products; and
(7)
Other waste material determined to be a likely hazard to the public health, safety, or environment, as provided for by the laws of state or as provided for in the rules and regulations of the department of human resources, environmental protection division.
Inert waste means vegetation, tree limbs and stumps, grass clippings, plants and shrubs.
Putrescible wastes means wastes that are capable of being decomposed by microorganisms, including kitchen wastes, manure, offal, hatchery and poultry wastes, and garbage.
Refuse means all putrescible and nonputrescible solid waste (except body waste) including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles, and solid commercial and industrial wastes.
Rubbish means nonputrescible solid waste (excluding ashes), consisting of both combustible and noncombustible waste, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, and similar materials.
Solid waste means putrescible and nonputrescible wastes, except water, carried body wastes, including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street refuse, dead animals, sewage sludge, animal manures, industrial wastes, residue from incineration, food processing wastes, construction waste, hazardous waste, and any other waste material in a solid or semisolid state not otherwise defined in this article.
State law specifically includes the Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-9-1 et seq.
Transfer station means the Jeff Davis County-City of Hazlehurst Solid Waste Transfer Station.
(Ord. of 10-13-2005, § 2)
Sec. 30-2. - Penalties for violation.
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, any person proven of violating the terms of this chapter shall be fined up to a maximum of $500.00 for the first offense, $750.00 for the second offense, and $1,000.00 for the third offense, or confined to 30 days in the public jail of this county for each violation, with the violator to pay the costs of prosecution.
(Ord. of 10-13-2005, § 8)
Sec. 30-3. - Dumping and unauthorized disposal prohibited.
No person shall dump, dispose of, discard, or throw away any garbage, hazardous waste, putrescible or nonputrescible waste, refuse, solid waste, building material, commercial waste, or other rubbish, upon any road right-of-way, parkway, ditch, pond, watercourse, stream, river, or any other public place, or the lands of another, excepting only county authorized and maintained public dump sites, and waste disposal receptacles, with the exception of hazardous waste, which will not be accepted at any solid waste facility in the county. It shall be an offense to dump, dispose of, discard any waste materials not designated as acceptable at any county authorized and maintained public dump site, other than a site nominated for such waste.
(Ord. of 10-13-2005, § 3)
Sec. 30-4. - Creating public nuisance by disposal of waste prohibited.
No person or other entity shall dispose of any waste, garbage, refuse, or rubbish, in such a manner as to create a public nuisance or public health hazard, contravening the terms as defined by state law.
(Ord. of 10-13-2005, § 4)
Sec. 30-5. - Scavenging or otherwise tampering with waste prohibited.
No person shall scavenge, remove, disturb any item whatsoever from any county designated waste disposal site, or waste receptacle therein.
(Ord. of 10-13-2005, § 5)
Sec. 30-6. - County public dump site to be used only by county residents.
Any county authorized and maintained public dump site shall be for the use of county residents exclusively.
(Ord. of 10-13-2005, § 6)
Sec. 30-7. - Name on unlawfully disposed items creates presumption of guilt.
Any refuse, or other type of waste as defined in this article that is dumped, deposited, thrown, or left upon any road right-of-way, parkway, ditch, pond, watercourse, stream, river, or any other public place, or the lands of others, in violation of this chapter is discovered to contain any article or articles, including, but not limited to letters, bills, publications, or other writings that display the name of a person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the article belongs or belonged to such person, it shall be a presumption that such person has violated this article, unless proven otherwise by the alleged violator.
(Ord. of 10-13-2005, § 7)
Sec. 30-8. - Authority of county and state law enforcement officers and courts to enforce.
County and state law enforcement officers are authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter and the courts of the county and state are authorized to try individuals accused of violating this article and, upon conviction, to assess the penalties provided for herein.
(Ord. of 10-13-2005, § 9)
Secs. 30-9—30-34. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TRANSFER STATION
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 30-35. - All solid waste from county to be delivered to transfer station.
Except as otherwise provided herein, all county solid waste generated within the unincorporated area of the county must be delivered to the transfer station for transfer to an out of county solid waste disposal site approved by the board of commissioners from time to time. All private collectors and haulers of solid waste in the unincorporated area of the county must deliver all such waste to the transfer station.
(Ord. of 11-9-2006, §§ A, C)
Sec. 30-36. - Disposal fees.
All county solid waste delivered to the transfer station shall be subject to uniform fees, as approved from time to time by the board of commissioners consistent with applicable law, regardless of whether such solid waste is delivered by an authorized public or private hauler. The board of commissioners may authorize such fees to be revised from time to time with such fee changes or revisions constituting an amendment to this article.
(Ord. of 11-9-2006, § B)
Sec. 30-37. - Only county, city and private haulers may deposit waste at transfer station.
(a)
The transfer station shall only be open to receive solid waste from vehicles operated by the county, the city, and private haulers who have received a permit issued by the county or the city or their authorized designees pursuant to this article. Individuals and businesses that are not in the regular business of hauling solid waste shall not be permitted to deliver any solid wastes to the transfer station.
(b)
All persons and entities in the county needing to dispose of solid waste other than the city, the county and authorized private haulers who have obtained permits as provided in this chapter, must take their solid waste to other collection sites which have been, or will be, duly designated by the county and city to receive such solid waste.
(Ord. of 11-9-2006, §§ G, H)
Sec. 30-38. - Wastes accepted at transfer station; excluded wastes.
Only solid waste as defined by federal and state laws and regulations will be accepted at the transfer station, and all solid waste shall be subject to the following exclusions:
(1)
Waste containing any of the following will be excluded and shall not be delivered to or accepted at the transfer station: lead, batteries, fluorescent and incandescent laps or ballasts, appliances, yard waste, radioactive waste, medical waste or flammable, explosive, or any waste regulated as hazardous waste by state or federal laws and regulations; all of the foregoing shall be classified as excluded waste.
(2)
In addition, special waste, including asbestos containing material and sewerage sludge will be accepted only after receiving approval from the private hauler which is authorized to pick up and transport waste materials from the transfer station to final disposal sites. Any persons or entities wanting to dispose of any such special waste must make arrangements directly with the private hauler servicing the transfer station.
(Ord. of 11-9-2006, § J)
Sec. 30-39. - Identification passes.
The county, in coordination with the city, will develop and implement an identification pass for all vehicles authorized to bring solid waste to the transfer station, and no vehicle shall be permitted to dispose of any solid waste at the transfer station without a proper identification or pass.
(Ord. of 11-9-2006, § I)
Secs. 30-40—30-66. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PRIVATE WASTE HAULERS

Sec. 30-67. - When collection permit required; term; fees.
(a)
Any legal entity desiring to collect municipal solid waste generated within the unincorporated area of the county on a commercial basis for disposal at the transfer station must first obtain a collection permit from the county board of commissioners, or its authorized designee. The permit shall be issued for collection of solid waste and shall be separate and apart from any other licensing requirement.
(b)
Unless sooner revoked for violation of this division, such permit shall automatically terminate at midnight on December 31 each year.
(c)
There shall be no charge for permits issued to the city or the county or to vehicles operated by them; however, the county, in coordination with the city, may set a permit fee for private haulers to offset the administration cost of issuing the permit. Any fee schedule for such permits may be set and revised from time to time by the board of county commissioners and the city governing authority without the same constituting an amendment to this article.
(Ord. of 11-9-2006, § D)
Sec. 30-68. - Tipping fees to be established and approved by county and city.
The private hauler responsible for transporting the solid waste from the transfer station will establish tipping fees at the transfer station, which fees must be approved by the county and the city.
(Ord. of 11-9-2006, § L)
Sec. 30-69. - Out-of-county waste may be deposited by private hauler.
The private hauler may also accept solid waste from haulers outside of the county as long as the waste is of the same type that is otherwise permitted to be taken to the transfer station. The private hauler will set tipping fees for such haulers of out-of-county waste. Private haulers may not accept any out-of-county waste which would constitute excluded waste under this article.
(Ord. of 11-9-2006, § M)
Sec. 30-70. - Separation and removal of excluded materials; costs.
Any waste materials brought to the transfer station by a private hauler that are not accepted shall be promptly separated and removed by the private hauler at the sole expense of the private hauler. Should any private hauler fail to separate and remove excluded waste or any other waste that cannot be accepted at the transfer station, the private hauler shall be liable for all costs incurred by the county or city in separating or returning such excluded waste to the private hauler or all additional costs incurred by the county or city in disposing of such excluded waste.
(Ord. of 11-9-2006, § N)
Sec. 30-71. - Violations and penalties.
(a)
Any individual or legal entity required to obtain a collection permit under this division that fails to deliver solid waste for disposal at the transfer station shall be in violation of this article punishable by a civil fine in the amount of $1,000.00 per offense and revocation of the collection permit.
(b)
Any individual or entity not required to obtain a collection permit under this article disposing of solid waste generated within the unincorporated area of the county who fails to deliver such solid waste to the transfer station there is hereby imposed a civil fine of up to a maximum of $100.00 per offense.
(c)
Each bulk container or garbage receptacle of county solid waste generated within the unincorporated area of the county and collected but not delivered to the county transfer station for disposal shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 11-9-2006, §§ E, F)
