Chapter 18 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Magistrate court of the county to hear and try cases of persons charged with violation of authority ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 12-3-236.1(b).

Sec. 18-1. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the authority limits to engage in any violent, tumultuous, obstreperous, or similar disorderly conduct tending to infringe on the peace and repose of the citizens of the island. Fighting between two or more persons in which physical contact is made, except that which occurs at boxing exhibitions duly authorized by the authority, shall be deemed to be disorderly conduct within the meaning of this chapter.
(Code 1981, § 15-101)
Sec. 18-2. - Discharging firearms, air guns, etc.
(a)
No person shall, while upon the island, discharge any firearm, air gun, BB gun or any other weapon projecting any lead, missile or projectile; provided, however, that this chapter shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law from discharging a firearm in the performance of his duty, nor any citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending persons or property or when engaged in such hunting as may be expressly authorized by the authority and which shall otherwise be lawful.
(b)
The violation of this chapter by any person shall cause such person to be liable to the authority for a fine in the amount of $500.00 in the manner as shall be provided or stipulated by law, and the authority is hereby authorized to invoke any and all such remedies as may by law be available to it to enforce the collection thereof, including but not limited to the appropriate proceedings in courts of competent jurisdiction in the state.
(Code 1981, § 15-102)
Sec. 18-3. - Throwing of missiles.
It shall be unlawful for any person upon the island to throw any stone, rock or other missile upon or at any vehicle, building, tree or other public or private property, or upon or at any person in any public or private way or place.
(Code 1981, § 15-103)
Sec. 18-4. - Ball playing.
It shall be unlawful for any person to play ball by throwing, catching, pitching, or batting a ball on any public street, alley or sidewalk of the island.
(Code 1981, § 15-104)
Sec. 18-5. - Drinking in public.
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any spirituous malt or alcoholic beverage in or upon those certain areas upon the island designated as:
(1)
All parking lots, roads, bicycle paths, sidewalks and alleyways.
(2)
All parking lots, roads, bicycle paths, sidewalks and alleyways (including all areas extending 50 yards from each side or right-of-way line of said parking lots, roads, bicycle paths, sidewalks and alleyways), except all roads within the area designated as the South Picnic Area and the area designated as the Fishing Pier Picnic Area.
(Code 1981, § 15-105; Res. of 6-28-1982; Res. of 10-27-2014(1))
Sec. 18-6. - Weeds.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Weeds means jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, dandelion or other unsightly growths of like kind.
(b)
Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any owner or resident of any lot, area, or place located upon the island to permit any weeds, grass or deleterious, unhealthful growths to obtain a height exceeding ten inches on such property.
(1)
Notice to remove. It shall be the duty of the authority to notify, in writing, the owner or occupant of any premises upon which weeds or other prohibited flora are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this chapter that such growths must be removed, cut, and/or destroyed within ten days from the date of such notice. Notice shall be by registered mail, addressed to said owner or occupant, at his last known address.
(2)
Action upon noncompliance. Upon failure, neglect or refusal of any owner or occupant so notified to remove, cut or destroy such weeds or other unsightly growths within the designated time period, the executive director, or his designated representative, is authorized and empowered to provide for the removal, cutting or destruction of such growths by or for the authority. The actual cost of such weed removal shall be assessed against the lessee from the authority upon whose premises the work is done, and, in the event the bill for such charges remains unpaid for ten days after it has been rendered, an additional charge as may from time to time be established by the island authority shall also be assessed against the lessee.
(Code 1981, § 15-107; Amd. of 3-20-1992, § 11)
Sec. 18-7. - Accumulation of junk.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Junk.
(1)
The term "junk" means any:
a.
Old iron, steel, brass, copper, tin, lead or other base metals;
b.
Old cordage, ropes, rags, fibers or fabrics;
c.
Old rubber;
d.
Old bottles or other glass;
e.
Bones;
f.
Wastepaper and other waste or discarded material which might be prepared to be used again in some form; and
g.
Motor vehicles no longer used as such, to be used for scrap metal or stripping of parts and any dismantled, wrecked, scrapped, ruined or junked motor vehicles or parts thereof.
(2)
The term "junk" does not include materials or objects accumulated by a person as byproducts, waste or scraps from the operation of his own business, or materials or objects held and used by a manufacturer as an integral part of his own manufacturing processes.
(b)
Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any owner or resident of any property upon the island other than a person who is a licensed junk dealer, licensed by the authority to permit to accumulate on such property any junk.
(1)
Notice to remove. It shall be the duty of the authority to notify, in writing, the owner or occupant of any premises upon which junk is permitted to accumulate in violation of the provisions of this section that such material must be removed within ten days from the date of such notice. Notice shall be by registered mail, addressed to said owner or occupant, at his last known address.
(2)
Action upon noncompliance. Upon the failure, neglect, or refusal of any owner or occupant so notified to remove such junk within the designated time period, the authority is authorized and empowered to arrange for the removal of such material by the city or by a private individual or firm through contract with the authority.
(Code 1981, § 15-108)
Sec. 18-8. - Abandonment of motor vehicles.
It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon or to leave unattended for a period in excess of 48 hours any motor vehicle on any street, road, alley or other public way within the authority.
(Code 1981, § 15-109)
Sec. 18-9. - Tampering with signs.
It shall be unlawful to remove, deface, or destroy any authority authorized placard or poster.
(Code 1981, § 15-110)
Sec. 18-10. - Freshwater fishing.
It shall be unlawful to fish at any time on any lake that is on or directly adjacent to a golf course fairway. It also shall be unlawful to fish on any other lake which is not marked by a sign which states that such fishing is permitted. The executive director, within his discretion, may authorize, in writing, fishing on any lake on which fishing is otherwise not permitted.
(Code 1981, § 15-111; Ord. of 7-25-1988)
Sec. 18-11. - Temporary shelter.
Temporary tents or shelters and the like are permitted on the beaches and other public areas, provided that said temporary tents and shelters are removed at the cessation of the personal activity.
(Code 1981, § 15-112; Res. of 10-27-2014(1))
Sec. 18-12. - Damaging vegetation.
It shall be unlawful to cut, pick or in any manner damage the vegetation, except as provided in section 18-6, on authority property.
(Code 1981, § 15-113)
Sec. 18-13. - Dumping into creeks, rivers, etc.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or place any refuse, paper, trash, glass, nails, tacks, wire, bottles, cans, yard trash, concrete, earthen fill, garbage, containers, construction debris, or other litter or debris in any ditch, stream, creek, river, swale, marsh or retention basin that regularly or periodically carries surface water runoff.
(b)
The violation of this section by any person shall cause such person to be liable to the authority for a fine in the amount of $500.00 in the manner as be provided or stipulated by law, and the authority is hereby authorized to invoke any and all such remedies as may be law available to it to enforce the collection thereof, including but not limited to the appropriate proceedings in the courts of competent jurisdiction in the state.
(Ord. of 1-24-1994)
Sec. 18-14. - Outdoor water use restrictions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant to utilize water outdoors inconsistent with the mandatory watering schedule stated in the Rules for Outdoor Water Use ch. 391-3-30, adopted by the state board of natural resources.
(b)
Upon verbal notice and/or placement of written notice for the first offense, owner or occupant shall have not more than ten days to correct the noncompliance. If noncompliance occurs again subsequent to the ten-day grace period of the first offense, a second verbal notice (if owner or occupant is available) and a written notice shall be sent by registered mail to the owner or occupant and an additional ten-day grace period from the date of the second offense will be started. If after the second ten-day grace period the so notified owner or occupant has not corrected the noncompliance, the island authority is authorized and empowered to terminate water service to the said premises.
(Ord. of 11-15-2004)
Sec. 18-15. - Water use in nondrought conditions.
(a)
Outdoor water use other than exempted activities shall occur only as follows:
(1)
Odd-numbered addresses: outdoor water use is allowed on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays.
(2)
Even-numbered and unnumbered addresses: outdoor water use is allowed on Monday, Wednesdays and Saturdays.
(3)
No Friday outdoor water use.
(b)
Outdoor watering for purposes of planting, growing, managing or maintaining ground cover, trees, shrubs or other plants may occur only between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.
(Ord. of 12-20-2010, § 15-116)
Sec. 18-16. - Use of state beaches.
modified
(a)
Rules and regulations. All persons entering upon the public beaches, or structures erected thereon, of the Jekyll Island State Park shall comply with the following rules and regulations, and failure to do so shall constitute a violation of this article:
(1)
Swimming. Signage at all public entrance points properly notify all persons there are no lifeguards on duty at the Jekyll Island State Park. All persons entering the water off the public beaches are doing so at their own risk.
(2)
Placement of litter. It shall be unlawful to throw, place, deposit, sweep or scatter, or cause to be thrown, placed, deposited, swept, or scattered, any paper, food, cigarette butts, bottles, cans, trash, fruit peelings or other refuse upon the beaches or structures erected thereon. Beach goers must have their trash in a container at all times.
(3)
Glass or breakable containers. It shall be unlawful for any person to take or carry upon the beaches or structures erected thereon any glass or breakable containers.
(4)
Disturbing dune vegetation. It shall be unlawful or any person to pick, gather, remove, walk in the dunes, or otherwise disturb the vegetation present on sand dunes, including sea oats. This division shall operate to further limit the restrictions on damaging vegetation as established by Jekyll Island Authority, section 18-6. Further, it is prohibited for any person to enter in any area that has been marked by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources as an area designated for the protection of nesting sea turtles and shorebirds. Nothing in this section shall supersede the existing regulations and jurisdiction of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
(5)
Pets. It shall be prohibited for pets to be off leash or running free on the beaches and dunes of Jekyll Island at any time. To protect nesting sea turtles and shorebirds, it is further prohibited for a pet, whether leashed or unleashed or otherwise, to be on the beaches or in the dunes of Jekyll Island from the boardwalk at the south dunes picnic area (latitude 31.031854, longitude -81.415358) south and around the southern tip of the island north to a point (latitude 31.015594, longitude -81.433926) or equivalent to 2,000 feet south of the St. Andrews picnic area. This shall not apply to any animal operating as a guide dog or performing similar assistance for a disable person. Nothing in this section shall supersede the existing Jekyll Island Authority Ordinances, section 4-6 regarding pets and section 4-7 regarding removal of pet fecal matter.
(6)
Horseback riding. It shall be prohibited for any person to bring or in any way allow a horse to be on the beaches and dunes of Jekyll Island at any time. Excluded from this prohibition are licensed vendors of the Jekyll Island Authority who have received written permission from the authority to engage in any activity involving the use of horses on the beaches of Jekyll Island.
(7)
Motorized vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to take any motorized vehicle on to the beaches or structures erected thereon. This includes automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, all-terrain-vehicles and similar motor driven vehicles and craft. This does not include properly marked emergency vehicles while in the course of an emergency operation, or maintenance/utility vehicles in the employ of the Jekyll Island Authority or similar governmental entity and engaged in a legitimate operation.
Nothing in this section shall supersede the existing Jekyll Island Authority Ordinance, section 24-2.
(8)
Motorized watercraft. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motorized watercraft, such as a jet ski, motorboat, and/or any similar craft in violation of the rules and regulations as maintained and enforced by the U.S. Coast Guard and the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
(9)
Wind-powered crafts. To protect nesting sea turtles and shorebirds, it is prohibited for any person to use or operate a kite buggy, beach-capable wind surfer or any other wind-powered transport on the beaches or in the dunes of Jekyll Island from the boardwalk at the south dunes picnic area (latitude 31.031854, longitude -81.415358) south and around the southern tip of the island north to a point (latitude 31.015594, longitude -81.433926) or equivalent to 2,000 feet south of the St. Andrews picnic area.
(10)
Fires. It shall be unlawful for any person to build or maintain any type of open fire on the beach, including any type of charcoal or gas fire, whether or not in a grill or similar container. This section shall operate to further limit the restrictions on open burning as established by Jekyll Island Authority Ordinance, section 10-21.
(11)
Disorderly conduct; endangerment of self or others. It shall be unlawful for any person to come upon the beaches or structures erected thereon, and individually or in concert with others, do any act or create any condition which does or is calculated to encourage,aid, abet, or start a riot, public disorder or disturbance of the peace; and it shall not be necessary to prove that that person was solely responsible for that riot, public disorder or disturbance of the peace, but only that his appearance, manner, conduct, attire, condition, status or general demeanor was a motivating factor that resulted in the riot, public disorder or disturbance of the peace. Any person who refuses when commanded by a enforcement official of the authority, Glynn County or the State of Georgia to leave the beach or structures erected thereon immediately, shall be guilty of an offense for refusal to obey the order or command of an enforcement official of the authority, and deemed to be a rioter or disturber of the peace. It shall also be unlawful for any person to come upon the beaches or structures erected thereon and act in any way which is likely to cause endangerment to him or others. Nothing in this section shall supersede the existing Jekyll Island Authority Ordinance, section 18-1.
(12)
Nudity. No nudity on beaches.
(13)
Beer kegs. The presence of beer kegs on the beach is often associated with underage drinking, littering, public intoxication and disorderly conduct and because such activities are in direct conflict with family recreation, such containers and similar devices for dispensing of large quantities of alcoholic beverages are expressly prohibited. This section shall operate to further limit the restrictions on drinking in public as established by Jekyll Island Authority Ordinance, section 18-5.
(14)
Jumping or diving from pier or public structure. It shall be unlawful for any person to jump or dive from any pier or public structure except those that might be specifically built for that purpose and as may be specifically authorized in connection with a properly authorized special event.
(15)
Walking or climbing on rocks. It shall be unlawful to walk or climb upon the rocks, or other natural formations. Walking on existing beach trails that traverse through the rocks is allowed.
(16)
Lanterns and flashlights. To protect nesting turtles and shorebirds, and in accordance with Jekyll Island Authority Ordinance, section 10-81 regulating beach lighting, the use of lanterns or flashlights on the nesting beaches is limited to lanterns and flashlights that produce light of 580 nm or longer wavelength (true red).
(b)
Exceptions to rules. Exceptions to any of the above rules and regulations may be allowed through the granting of a special permit by the Jekyll Island Authority.
(c)
Enforcement of rules and regulations. Enforcement of these rules and regulations shall be by members of the Uniform Division of the Department of Public Safety and/or agents of the state authority who are authorized by the authority to issue citations. The duly authorized personnel are authorized to require persons using the beach or structures erected thereon to obey reasonable commands designed to protect the public and public property, and the failure to obey any lawful command of those individuals shall be a violation of this section.
(d)
Penalty for violation. Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this section shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months and to perform community service for a period not exceeding 60 days any or all such penalties as ordered by the court. When found by authorized personnel as described above, the person responsible for the violation will be issued a citation and subpoena which identifies the violation and establishes a date for the violator to appear in the Magistrate Court of Glynn County to answer the charge. Violators may elect to pay the fine without appearing in court.
(e)
Penalty for pet violations. The fine for the offense of violating subsection (a)(5) of this section prohibiting pets on the beach, shall not be less than $200.00 for the first offense plus applicable court fees, and not less than $400.00 for subsequent offenses, plus applicable court fees for any subsequent offense occurring within a 12-month period of a preceding offense.
(f)
Penalty for litter. The fine for the offense of violating subsection (a)(2) of this section prohibiting litter on the beach, shall be not less than $100.00 plus applicable court fees and not less than $200.00 for subsequent offenses plus applicable court fees for any subsequent offense occurring within a 12-month period of a preceding offense.
(Ord. of 9-16-2011; Ord. of 1-28-2020(2) , § 1)
Editor's note— Ord. of September 16, 2011, set out provisions intended for use as 15-117. For purposes of classification, and at the editor's discretion, these provisions have been included as 18-16.
Sec. 18-17. - Fireworks.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use or ignite any consumer fireworks or fireworks, as defined under state law, in the Jekyll Island State Park, unless such use is authorized in writing by the Jekyll Island Authority. When permitted, the use, possession, storage, and transportation of consumer fireworks or fireworks shall be in accordance with all applicable federal and state laws, rules, regulations, and such terms and conditions as the Jekyll Island Authority may establish.
(Res. of 8-21-2017(2))
Sec. 18-18. - Unlawful camping.
new
It shall be unlawful for any person to camp or sleep on the streets, beaches, parks, parking lots or other public areas, whether in automobiles, trucks, campers, recreational vehicles or other vehicle, or in equipment designed and intended for the purpose of camping, between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Such activity may be permitted in public areas specifically set aside and designated for camping by the authority or as otherwise specifically authorized by the authority.
(Ord. of 12-17-2019(3) , § 1)
