ARTICLE II. - RATES AND CHARGES

Sec. 98-51. - Furnishing and installation of meters.
Meters for the measurement of utility services furnished by the city shall be furnished and installed by, and shall remain the property of, the city.
(Code 1976, § 35-34)
Sec. 98-52. - Care of meters.
(a)
All meters, whether or not installed on private property, shall remain the property of the city.
(b)
The costs of repairing and maintaining meters will be borne by the city, except when meters are damaged due to hot water backing into them, or due to carelessness on the part of the consumer, property owner or their agents, when the costs of such repairs will be billed to the property owner; and if such costs are not paid within 30 days, the city will shut off the supply of water and add a fee in an amount as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk to the amount due to cover the costs of the cutoff, and all such amounts shall be paid before service is restored.
(Code 1976, § 35-35)
Sec. 98-53. - Refund of deposit.
Refunds of deposits made for utility service shall be made upon the termination of such utility service only after payment of all indebtedness to the city for such utility service. Application of the deposit may be made in partial or total settlement of accounts when the supply is cut off for nonpayment of the bill, or for any infraction or violation of any ordinance, rule or regulation of the city relative to utility services offered by the city.
(Code 1976, § 35-37)
Sec. 98-54. - Effect of transfer and moving.
There shall be no transfer, or so called "transfer," from one location to another of deposits made for utility service, and in each case, the transfer shall be considered a new application for service and shall be treated as such. When premises are vacated, any amount due for water service shall be paid in full, and utility service shall not be commenced at another place until such payment is made. Such removal from one place to another shall be considered as a new request for utility service and applicants shall be required to make the current deposit that shall be in effect at the time such request is made.
(Code 1976, § 35-38)
Sec. 98-55. - Determination of charges.
The rates and charges for the consumption of utility services furnished by the city, as well as the charges and fees for connection thereto, shall be as set by ordinance or resolution by the board of commissioners, from time to time, and on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1976, § 35-39)
Sec. 98-56. - When payment due.
All bills for utility services furnished by the city shall be due and payable prior to 12:00 midnight of the 20th day of the month following the date of such bill; provided, however, that if such due date shall fall on a Sunday or a legal holiday observed by the city, then such bill shall be due and payable prior to the closing of business hours of the following business day.
(Code 1976, § 35-40)
Sec. 98-57. - Failure to pay; penalty.
If any consumer of utility services furnished by the city shall fail to pay his bill therefor when due, a penalty as determined by the board of commissioners shall be imposed.
(Code 1976, § 35-41)
Sec. 98-58. - Disconnection for nonpayment.
If bills for utility services shall not be paid when they become due, the city shall have the right to disconnect and discontinue all utility services furnished by the city to the consumer which are in arrears.
(Code 1976, § 35-42)
Sec. 98-59. - Voluntary discontinuance of service.
Consumers wishing to discontinue the use of any utility service shall give written notice at the city hall. Failure to give such notice shall render the consumer liable for the payment of all bills until such notice has been given.
(Code 1976, § 35-44)
Sec. 98-60. - Rates.
The rates for water and sewer services, late charges, water/sewer connect and reconnect charges, water and sewer tap fees and deposit fees shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1976, § 35-45)
Sec. 98-61. - Accessibility.
(a)
All meters, curb cocks, valves, meter boxes, fire hydrants, and manholes connected to the City of Jesup's water mains, service pipes, or sewer system shall remain under the direct control of the city, and it shall be unlawful for persons, other than those authorized by the City of Jesup, to connect, disconnect or to otherwise tamper with or manipulate any such meter, or to turn off the water or water utility service at any curb cock, valve or meter of the City of Jesup, or to open, move or tamper with any such meter box, fire hydrant or manhole.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, damage, hide, interfere with, impede access to, render inaccessible, or obscure any meter, curb cock, valve, meter box, fire hydrant, or manhole connected to the City of Jesup's water mains, service pipes, or sewer system, or that are otherwise maintained by the City of Jesup.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to position, keep, or maintain any objects, including, but not limited to, trees, bushes, plants, landscape trimmings, garbage, garbage cans, trash, trash bins, dumpsters, recycling, recycling bins, construction equipment or supplies, cars, trailers, automobiles, or any other vehicle, or permanent improvements to the land over any meter, curb cock, valve, meter box, fire hydrants, or manhole connected to the City of Jesup's water mains, service pipes, or sewer systems, or that are otherwise maintained by the City of Jesup.
(d)
If any employee or agent of the City of Jesup is unable to access a meter, curb cock, valve, meter box, fire hydrants, or manhole, or is unable to procure a reading of said meter as a consequence of the violation of this section, water and related utility services to the property or premises of such violator may be terminated by the City of Jesup until such time as such violations are remedied, and a disconnection fee charged in the amount as established from time to time by the City of Jesup. In the event that the water or related utility services are terminated as provided for herein, service may not be restored until free access to the meter, curb cock, valve, meter box, fire hydrants, or manhole is provided and any charges and penalties set forth herein are paid in full.
(Ord. of 9-15-2015, § 1)
Secs. 98-62—98-90. - Reserved.
