ARTICLE VII. - AUCTIONS[5]
Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Auctioneers, O.C.G.A. § 43-6-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-321. - Compliance.
No personal property, goods, wares or merchandise shall be sold at auction in the city, except in compliance with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1976, § 28-39)
Sec. 22-322. - Exception.
The provisions of this article shall not be applicable to auction sales conducted by trustees or referees in bankruptcies, executors, administrators, receivers or other public officers acting under judicial process or the sale of real property at auction.
(Code 1976, § 28-40)
Sec. 22-323. - Location restricted.
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct an auction sale of personal property, goods, wares, or merchandise on any of the streets, sidewalks or public property of the city.
(Code 1976, § 28-41)
Sec. 22-324. - Night auctions of jewelry and certain other articles.
It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for sale, auction or sell at auction any gold, silver, plated ware, clock, watch, diamond or other precious or semiprecious stone, or any imitation thereof, glassware, chinaware or jewelry, or any article purporting to be represented as any of such articles, between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. or at any time after sunset and before sunrise.
(Code 1976, § 28-42)
Secs. 22-325—22-350. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 22-351. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, or cause or permit to be sold, at auction any personal property, goods, wares or merchandise within the city, unless such sale is conducted by an individual who has applied for and obtained an auctioneer's license from the city clerk.
(Code 1976, § 28-49)
Sec. 22-352. - Application.
The form on which application for a license required by this division shall be made shall require the following information:
(1)
Name of the applicant.
(2)
Residence and business address of the applicant.
(3)
Length of time for which an auctioneer's license is desired.
(4)
A statement as to whether or not the applicant holds, or has held, an auctioneer's license from any state, municipality, governing body or licensing authority; a list of such licenses and a statement of the time, place and by whom such licenses were issued; a statement as to whether any state, municipality, governing body or licensing authority has ever refused to issue or renew an auctioneer's license to the applicant, together with a full and accurate statement as to the reasons for any such revocation.
(5)
A statement as to whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted of any crime, offense or violation of any municipal ordinance, and if so, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
(6)
The names of two reliable property owners within the county who will certify as to the applicant's good moral character and business responsibility as will enable an investigator to properly evaluate such moral character and business responsibility, except that the city clerk may waive such requirement with respect to an applicant for renewal of an auctioneer's license by an individual holding an unexpired auctioneer's license issued under this division who has in a previous application made under this division complied with such requirement.
(Code 1976, § 28-50)
Sec. 22-353. - Investigation.
Before issuing an auctioneer's license to any individual applying therefor, the city clerk shall refer the application to the chief of police who shall cause an investigation of the applicant's moral character and business responsibility to be made as he deems necessary for the protection of the public good, except that the city clerk may waive such requirement with respect to an application for renewal of an auctioneer's license by any individual holding an unexpired auctioneer's license issued under this division if an investigation of such applicant's moral character and business responsibility has previously been made under this section in connection with a prior application for an auctioneer's license under this division. The chief of police shall cause the investigation provided for in this section to be made within a reasonable time, and shall certify to the city clerk whether or not the moral character and business responsibility of the applicant is satisfactory.
(Code 1976, § 28-51)
Sec. 22-354. - Fees.
The fees for an auctioneer's license shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1976, § 28-52)
Sec. 22-355. - Issuance and renewal.
The city clerk is hereby authorized to grant or renew an auctioneer's license for any period of time, not exceeding one year, to any individual applying therefor, on a form to be provided by the city clerk, upon payment by the applicant of the fees provided for in this division.
(Code 1976, § 28-53)
Sec. 22-356. - Reason for denial or revocation.
An auctioneer's license may be revoked by the city clerk or any application, issuance or renewal of such license may be refused by the city clerk if he determines, after notice and hearing, that the:
(1)
Applicant or license holder is not an individual of good moral character and business responsibility;
(2)
Applicant's or license holder's application contains any false, fraudulent or misleading material;
(3)
Applicant or license holder has perpetrated a fraud upon any person, whether or not such fraud was perpetrated in the conduct of an auction within the city;
(4)
Applicant or license holder has made any false, fraudulent or misleading material statement in the course of conducting an auction sale, or offering for sale at auction, of any real or personal property, goods, wares or merchandise within the city;
(5)
Applicant or license holder has violated any of the statutes of the state relating to auctions or auctioneers;
(6)
Applicant has been convicted of any crime or offense involving moral turpitude; or
(7)
Applicant or license holder has conducted an auction sale or offered property, goods, wares or merchandise within the city in an unlawful manner, or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
(Code 1976, § 28-54)
Sec. 22-357. - Notice of hearing.
Notice of the hearing provided for in section 22-356 shall be given in writing to the applicant or license holder, as applicable. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to such applicant or license holder, at his last known address, at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing. The applicant or license holder shall have the right to be represented at such hearing by counsel.
(Code 1976, § 28-55)
Sec. 22-358. - Appeal.
Any individual aggrieved by the action of the city clerk in refusing to issue any license, or in revoking any license or special permit already issued, shall have the right to appeal to the board of commissioners. Such appeal shall be taken by filing a written statement, fully setting forth the grounds of the appeal, with the board of commissioners, or a person designated by the board, within 14 days after notice of the action complained of has been mailed, postage prepaid, to such individual's last known address. The board of commissioners shall set a time and place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the applicant in the same manner as provided in section 22-357. The applicant shall have the right to be represented at such hearing by counsel. The decisions and order of the board of commissioners on such appeal shall be final and conclusive.
(Code 1976, § 28-56)
Secs. 22-359—22-370. - Reserved.
