Chapter 106 - VEHICLES FOR HIRE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses and business regulations, ch. 22; streets and sidewalks, ch. 86; traffic, ch. 94.
State Law reference— Reciprocal agreements as to operation of vehicles registered in other states inapplicable to motor vehicles for hire, O.C.G.A. § 40-2-95.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 106-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Cruising means the driving of a taxicab on the streets, alleys or public roads of the city in search of, or soliciting, prospective passengers for hire.
Driver's license means the permission granted by the board of commissioners to a person to drive a taxicab upon the streets of the city.
Holder means a person to whom a certificate of public convenience and necessity has been issued.
Open stand means a public place alongside the curb of a street or elsewhere within the city, which has been designated by the board of commissioners as reserved exclusively for the use of taxicabs.
Rate card means a card issued by the board of commissioners for display in each taxicab which contains the rate of fare then in force.
Taxicab means a motor vehicle regularly engaged in the business of carrying passengers for hire, having a seating capacity of less than six persons, and not operated on a fixed route.
(Code 1976, § 33-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 106-2. - Scope of taxicab service.
All persons engaged in the taxicab business within the city, operating under the provisions of this chapter, shall render an overall service to the public desiring to use taxicabs. Such persons shall maintain a central place of business and keep the business open for the purpose of receiving calls and dispatching cabs. Such persons shall answer calls received by them for services inside the corporate limits of the city as soon as they can do so, and if such services cannot be rendered within a reasonable time, they shall then notify the prospective passengers how long it will be before the call can be answered and give the reasons therefor. Any taxicab operator who shall refuse to accept a call anywhere within the corporate limits of the city at any time when such holder has available cabs, or who shall fail or refuse to give overall service, shall be deemed in violation of this chapter.
(Code 1976, § 33-1.1)
Sec. 106-3. - Rate cards.
All taxicabs operating under this chapter shall have a rate card setting forth the authorized rates of fare displayed in such a place as to be in view of the passengers of such taxicabs.
(Code 1976, § 33-2)
Sec. 106-4. - Receipts.
Upon demand by the passenger, the taxicab driver shall render to such passenger a receipt for the amount charged, on which receipt the name of the owner, license number or motor number, amount of charges and date of transaction shall appear.
(Code 1976, § 33-3)
Sec. 106-5. - Refusal to pay legal fare.
It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to pay the legal fare of any taxicab after having hired the taxicab; and it shall be unlawful for any person to hire any taxicab with the intent to defraud the person from whom such taxicab is hired of the value of such service.
(Code 1976, § 33-4)
Sec. 106-6. - Solicitations generally.
No driver shall solicit passengers for a taxicab, except when sitting in the driver's compartment of such taxicab or while standing immediately adjacent to the curbside thereof. The driver of any taxicab shall remain in the driver's compartment or immediately adjacent to his vehicle at all times when such vehicle is upon the streets, except that, when necessary, a driver may be absent from his taxicab for not more than 15 minutes and, provided further, that nothing contained in this section shall be held to prohibit any driver from alighting to the street or sidewalk for the purpose of assisting passengers into or out of the taxicab.
(Code 1976, § 33-5)
Sec. 106-7. - Prohibited solicitations.
No driver shall solicit patronage in a loud or annoying tone of voice or by sign, or in any manner annoy any person or obstruct the movement of any person, or follow any person for the purpose of soliciting patronage.
(Code 1976, § 33-6)
Sec. 106-8. - Solicitation of other common carrier passengers.
No driver, owner or operator shall solicit passengers at the terminals of any other common carrier, nor at any intermediate points along the established route of any other common carrier.
(Code 1976, § 33-7)
Sec. 106-9. - Solicitation for other businesses.
It shall be unlawful for the driver of a taxicab to solicit business for any hotel, roominghouse or motel, or attempt to divert patronage from one such establishment to another.
(Code 1976, § 33-8)
Sec. 106-10. - Cruising.
No driver shall cruise in search of passengers, except in such areas, and at such times, as shall be designated when the police department finds that taxicab cruising would not congest traffic or be dangerous to pedestrians and other vehicles.
(Code 1976, § 33-9)
Sec. 106-11. - Receiving and discharging of passengers.
Drivers of taxicabs shall not receive or discharge passengers in the roadway, but shall pull up to the righthand sidewalk, as nearly as possible, or in the absence of a sidewalk, to the extreme righthand side of the road and then receive or discharge passengers, except upon one-way streets, where passengers may be discharged at either the righthand or lefthand sidewalk, or side of the roadway in the absence of a walk.
(Code 1976, § 33-10)
Sec. 106-12. - Number of passengers restricted; exception.
No driver shall permit no more than five persons to be carried in a taxicab as passengers. A child in arms shall not be counted as a passenger.
(Code 1976, § 33-11)
Sec. 106-13. - Refusing or neglecting to carry orderly passengers.
No driver shall refuse or neglect to convey any orderly person, upon request, unless such driver is previously engaged or unable or forbidden by the provisions of this chapter to do so.
(Code 1976, § 33-12)
Sec. 106-14. - Unlawful activities.
It shall be unlawful for a taxicab driver to engage in selling or hauling intoxicating liquors, or solicit business for any house of ill repute, or use his vehicle for any purpose other than the transporting of passengers.
(Code 1976, § 33-13)
Sec. 106-15. - Advertising.
Subject to the rules and regulations of the board of commissioners or the police department, it shall be lawful for any person owning or operating a taxicab or motor vehicle for hire to permit advertising matter to be affixed or installed in or on such taxicabs or motor vehicles for hire.
(Code 1976, § 33-14)
Secs. 106-16—106-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TAXI PERMIT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ordinance of Feb. 7, 2012, deleted the former Art. II, §§ 106-51—106-54, and enacted a new Art. II as set out herein. The former Art. II pertained to license and derived from the Code of 1976, §§ 33-26, 33-21, §§ 33-30, 33-31)

Sec. 106-51. - Required.
No person shall operate or permit a taxicab owned or controlled by him to be operated as a vehicle for hire upon the streets of the city without having first obtained a taxi permit to do so as provided in the occupation tax provisions of this Code (chapter 90, article II).
(Ord. of 2-7-2012)
Sec. 106-52. - Application.
An application for a taxi permit under this article shall be filed with the city clerk upon forms provided by the city, and such application shall be verified under oath, and shall furnish the following information:
(1)
The name and address of the applicant.
(2)
The financial status of the applicant, including the amounts of all unpaid judgments against the applicant and the nature of the transaction or acts giving rise to such judgments.
(3)
The applicant's experience in the transportation of passengers.
(4)
The number of vehicles to be operated or controlled by the applicant, and the location of proposed depots and terminals.
(5)
A bona fide and accurate motor vehicle driver's license summary, DMV history or driver's license history of the applicant.
(6)
A complete criminal background history of the applicant.
(7)
Any facts which the applicant believes tends to prove that public convenience and necessity require the granting of a license.
(8)
Such further information as the board of commissioners may require.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012)
Sec. 106-53. - Liability insurance.
No taxi permit shall be issued or continued in operation unless there is in full force and effect a liability insurance policy issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the state for each authorized vehicle in such amount as required by state law. A copy of the insurance policy shall be filed in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012)
Sec. 106-54. - Permit fees.
No taxi permit shall be issued or continued in operation unless the holder thereof has paid an annual permit fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk for the right to engage in the taxicab business and an annual fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk for each vehicle operated within the city. Such permit fees shall be for the fiscal year, and shall be in addition to any other license fees or charges established by proper authority and applicable to such vehicle under his operation and control.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012)
Secs. 106-55—106-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CITY DRIVER'S PERMIT[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ordinance of Feb. 7, 2012, deleted the former Art. III, §§ 106-91—106-99, and enacted a new Art. III as set out herein. The former Art. III pertained to driver's license and derived from the Code of 1976, §§ 33-47—33-55.

Sec. 106-91. - Required.
No person shall operate a taxicab for hire upon the streets of the city, and no person who owns or controls a taxicab shall permit such operation, and no taxicab licensed by the city shall be driven for hire at any time, unless the driver of such taxicab shall have first obtained and shall have in force at that time a taxicab driver's city permit issued under the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012)
Sec. 106-92. - Application.
(a)
An application for a city driver's permit shall be filed with the city clerk on forms provided by the city, and such application shall be verified under oath, and shall contain the following information:
(1)
The names and addresses of four residents of the city who have known the applicant for a period of one year, and who will vouch for the sobriety, honesty and general good character of the applicant.
(2)
The applicant's experience in the transportation of passengers.
(3)
The educational background of the applicant.
(4)
A concise history of the applicant's employment.
(5)
A bona fide and accurate motor vehicle driver's license summary, DMV history or driver's license history of the applicant.
(6)
A complete criminal background history of the applicant.
(7)
Such other information as may be required by the clerk to enable him to determine whether or not such city permit shall be issued.
(b)
Before any city driver's permit is granted to such applicant, he shall be required to furnish a photograph of himself, in triplicate; one of such photographs to be pasted on the city driver's permit supplied by the city and will be placed in the automobile which he is to drive, where the photograph will be in clear view of the passengers, with his name under such photograph; one of such photographs shall be pasted on his city driver's permit, which he must always have on his person whenever driving a public motor vehicle; and the third photograph shall be filed at the city police headquarters with his application.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012)
Sec. 106-93. - Examination; state license.
Before any application for a city driver's permit required by this article is finally passed upon by the clerk, the applicant shall be required to pass a satisfactory examination as to his knowledge of the city, and to show that he has a current motor vehicle operator's license issued by the state.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012)
Sec. 106-94. - Investigation.
The police department shall conduct an investigation of each applicant for a city driver's permit, and a report of such investigation and a copy of the traffic and police record of the applicant, if any, shall be attached to the application for the consideration of the clerk.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012)
Sec. 106-95. - Approval or disapproval.
Upon consideration of the application for a city driver's permit and the reports and certificates required to be attached thereto, the city clerk shall approve or disapprove the application. If the application is rejected, the applicant may request a personal appearance before the board of commissioners to offer evidence as to why his application should be considered.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012)
Sec. 106-96. - Fee.
Before any city driver's permit shall be issued under the provisions of this article, the applicant shall pay to the city a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012)
Sec. 106-97. - Issuance.
Upon approval of an application for a city driver's permit, the clerk shall issue a license to the applicant, which shall bear the name, address, color, age, signature and photograph of the applicant.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012)
Sec. 106-98. - Duration of validity.
Each taxicab driver's license issued under this article shall be valid for the fiscal year of the city.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012)
Sec. 106-99. - Authority to suspend or revoke; report of violation.
(a)
The clerk is hereby given the authority to suspend any city driver's permit issued under this article for a driver's failure or refusal to comply with the provisions of this chapter, which suspension shall last for a period of not more than 20 days. The board of commissioners are also given authority to revoke any city driver's permit for failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter. However, a city driver's permit may not be revoked unless the driver has received notice and has had an opportunity to present evidence in his behalf.
(b)
The chief of police is hereby directed to report any violation of this article, or the laws of the state or the United States to the board of commissioners, along with his recommendation.
(Ord. of 2-7-2012)
Secs. 106-100—106-130. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - VEHICLES

Sec. 106-131. - Approval.
Prior to the use and operation of any vehicle under the provisions of this chapter, such vehicle shall be thoroughly examined and inspected by the police department and found to comply with such reasonable rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the police department. The police department is hereby authorized to prescribe such reasonable rules and regulations as may be necessary for the safe operation of taxicabs within the city. Such rules and regulations shall be promulgated to provide safe transportation and shall specify such safety equipment and regulatory devices as the police department shall deem advisable to holders and drivers.
(Code 1976, § 33-67)
Sec. 106-132. - Periodic inspections.
Every vehicle operating under this chapter shall be periodically inspected by the police department at such intervals as may be established by the police department to ensure the continued maintenance of safe operating conditions.
(Code 1976, § 33-68)
Sec. 106-133. - Clean and sanitary condition required.
Every vehicle operating under this chapter must be kept clean and in a sanitary condition according to rules and regulations of the police department.
(Code 1976, § 33-69)
Sec. 106-134. - Condemnation for noncompliance; correction.
When the inspection of any taxicab shall disclose that such vehicle does not comply with the intent of this chapter or the rules and regulations of the police department, the police department is authorized and directed to condemn such vehicle for use as a taxicab until such conditions are corrected.
(Code 1976, § 33-70)
Sec. 106-135. - Identification.
Every public vehicle for hire or taxicab, however designated, shall have a sign plainly painted on the passenger door on each side of such vehicle, in letters not less than four inches high, the full name of the company or individual owning the vehicle and the term "TAXICAB," and in addition, there shall be painted on the passenger door on each side and on the rear a number at least six inches high, which shall be a separate and distinct number from that of any other public vehicle or taxicab within the city. Such number shall be assigned to such vehicle or taxicab and the owner thereof by the chief of police, and shall not be altered or changed without the consent of the chief of police. The number, together with the name of the owner as well as the operator of such vehicle or taxicab, shall be registered at the police department in a book to be kept by the chief of police for such purpose.
(Code 1976, § 33-71)
