APPENDIX B - SUBDIVISIONS[1]
ORDINANCE OF 7-8-[19]69
An ordinance regulating the subdivision of land in the City of Jesup requiring and regulating the preparation and presentation of preliminary and final plats for such purpose, establishing minimum subdivision design standards, requiring minimum improvements to be made or guaranteed to be made by the subdivider, setting forth the procedure to be followed by the planning commission in applying these rules, regulations, and standards, and prescribing penalties for the violation of its provisions.
Be it ordained by the mayor and city commission of the City of Jesup:
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the city's subdivisions ordinance, as adopted by the board of commissioners on July 8, 1969. Amendments to the development ordinance are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original ordinance. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Cross reference— Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat saved from repeal, § 1-6(a)(11); buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 38; floods, ch. 46; manufactured homes, ch. 62; planning and zoning, ch. 70; sewers, ch. 78; streets and sidewalks, ch. 86; vegetation, ch. 102; zoning, app. A.
State Law reference— Approval by planning commission or governing authority on plat of subdivision required for filing or recording in superior court clerk's office, O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67(d); Georgia Land Sales Act, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - [GENERALLY]

Section 101. - Short title.
This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the "Land Subdivision Ordinance of the City of Jesup."
Section 102. - Purpose and intent.
This ordinance is enacted pursuant to the authority contained in the General Planning and Zoning Enabling Act of 1957 (1957 Ga. Laws, page 420), for the following purposes:
A.
To encourage economically sound and stable land development;
B.
To assure the provision of required streets, utilities and other facilities and services to land developments;
C.
To assure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in land developments;
D.
To assure the provision of needed public open spaces and building sites in land developments through the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational and other public purposes; and
E.
To assure that land is developed in conformity with the Comprehensive Plan of the City of Jesup.
Section 103. - [More strict ordinance or statute to govern.]
Whenever the provisions of this ordinance and those of some other ordinance or statute apply to the same subject matter, that ordinance requiring the highest, or more strict, standard shall govern.
Section 104. - [Not applicable.]
The provisions of this ordinance shall not apply to any subdivision which has heretofore been approved by the planning commission and the board of commissioners for the City of Jesup pursuant to the provisions of the subdivision ordinance of the City of Jesup adopted September 21, 1954, as amended, provided said subdivision plat has been recorded in the office of the clerk of the Superior Court of Wayne County, Georgia, as required by said ordinance. In the event any such subdivision plat has not been so recorded, the subdivision of said property shall be subject to the provisions hereof.
ARTICLE II. - DEFINITIONS

Section 201. - Definitions.
When used in this ordinance, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given in this section. Terms not herein defined shall have their customary dictionary definitions where not inconsistent with the context. The term "shall" is mandatory. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the singular number include the plural and those used in the plural number include the singular. Words used in the present tense include the future:
a.
"Lot." A portion or parcel of land separated from other portions or parcels by description as on a subdivision plat of record or survey map or as described by metes and bounds, and intended for transfer of ownership or for building development. For the purpose of this ordinance, the term does not include any portion of a dedicated right-of-way.
b.
"Planning commission" is the Jesup-Wayne County Planning Commission.
c.
Street" is a way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as an avenue, boulevard, road, highway, expressway, lane, alley or other way, and for the purpose of this ordinance, "Streets" are divided into the following categories:
(1)
"Major streets." Those streets designated as such on the major thoroughfare plan of the City of Jesup.
(2)
"Collector street." A street within a subdivision used to carry traffic from the "minor streets" to the "major streets" and includes the principal entrance and circulation streets of a subdivision.
(3)
"Minor street." A street used primarily for access to the abutting properties.
(4)
"Alley." A minor way used for service access to the back or side or properties otherwise abutting on a street.
(5)
"Cul-de-sac." A "minor street" with only one outlet, sometimes called a "dead-end" street.
(6)
"Marginal access street." A minor street parallel and adjacent to major streets and which provides access to abutting properties with protection from through traffic.
d.
"Subdivider" is the person, firm or corporation having such a proprietary interest in the land to be subdivided as will authorize the maintenance of proceedings to subdivide such land under this ordinance, or the authorized agent of such person, firm or corporation for the purpose of proceeding under this ordinance.
e.
"Subdivision" means all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or building development, and includes all division of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets, and includes resubdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided; provided, however, that the following are not included within this definition:
1.
The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the standards of the municipality;
2.
The division of land into parcels of five acres or more where no new street is involved.
3.
A single division of a tract of land into not more than two lots, provided no new street or change in an existing street is involved, and provided further that such division will not reduce the total land area for each lot below the minimum required for the district within which said property is located. Any person desiring to make such division shall obtain the written approval of the building official, which approval shall be affixed to the plat of such subdivision and recorded as required hereby for a subdivision plat.
ARTICLE III. - PLATTING JURISDICTION, ENFORCEMENT

Section 301. - Platting authority.
From and after the passage of this ordinance, the Jesup-Wayne County Planning Commission shall be the official platting authority, and no plat of a land subdivision shall be entitled to record in the office of the clerk of the Superior Court of Wayne County unless it shall have the approval of the planning commission inscribed thereon. The filing or recording of a plat of a subdivision without the approval of the planning commission as required by this ordinance is declared to be a misdemeanor. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Section 302. - Use of plat.
The transfer of, sale of, agreement to sale, or negotiation to sale land by reference to or exhibition of, or other use of a plat of a subdivision that has not been given final approval by the planning commission, signed and on file in the City Hall, Jesup, Georgia, is prohibited, and the description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document shall not exempt the transaction from such penalties.
(Ord. of 5-4-1993, § 1)
Section 303. - Opening and improving public streets.
The governing body of the city shall not accept, lay out, open, improve, grade, pave or light any street or lay any utility lines in any street, which had not attained the status of a public street prior to the effective date of this ordinance, unless such street corresponds to the street location shown on an approved subdivision plat or on an official street map adopted by the planning commission, provided that the governing body may accept, lay out, open and improve any street not so platted if it first submits such proposed action to the planning commission for its review and comment.
Section 304. - Erection of buildings.
No building permit shall be issued and no building shall be erected on any lot in the city unless the street giving access thereto has been accepted as a public street in accordance with this ordinance, or unless such street had attained the status of a public street prior to the effective date of this ordinance, or on a street accepted by the governing body.
ARTICLE IV. - PREAPPLICATION PROCEDURE

Section 401. - Preapplication review.
Whenever the subdivision of a tract of land within the City of Jesup is proposed, the subdivider is urged to consult early and informally with the chairman of the planning commission. The subdivider may submit sketch plans and data showing existing conditions within the site and in its vicinity and the proposed layout and development of the subdivision. No fee shall be charged for the preapplication review and no formal application shall be required.
ARTICLE V. - PROCEDURE FOR TENTATIVE APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT

Section 501. - Application for preliminary plat approval.
Following the preapplication review of a proposed subdivision, the subdivider shall submit to the secretary of the planning commission, at least 15 days prior to the next regular meeting of the planning commission, the following:
a.
A letter requesting review and approval of a preliminary plat and giving the names and address of a person to whom the notice of the hearing by the planning commission on the preliminary plat shall be sent.
b.
Ten copies of the preliminary plat and other documents, as specified in article VII.
c.
A statement from the Wayne County Health Department approving the proposed water supply and sewage disposal systems.
d.
A preliminary plat filing fee of $25.00 or $3.00 per lot, whichever is greater. Said fee is nonreturnable.
Section 502. - Review of preliminary plat.
The secretary of the planning commission, or other person or persons designated by the planning commission, shall check the plat for conformance to the rules and regulations of this ordinance and report his findings and recommendations to the planning commission, which shall afford a hearing on the preliminary plat, notice of the time and place of which shall be sent by the secretary of the planning commission by registered or certified mail to the person designated in the letter requesting preliminary plat review and approval, not less than five days prior to the date of the hearing.
Thereafter, the planning commission shall give tentative approval or disapproval to the preliminary plat. A notice of the action shall be made on three copies of the preliminary plat, including a statement of the reasons for disapproval if the preliminary plat is disapproved. One copy shall be returned to the subdivider or his agent, one copy added to the records of the planning commission, and one copy forwarded to the Wayne County Health Department.
Tentative approval of a preliminary plat does not constitute approval of a final plat. It indicates only approval of the layout as a guide to the preparation of the final plat. Tentative approval shall expire and be null and void after a period of one year unless an extension of time is approved by the planning commission.
If action on a preliminary plat is not taken by the planning commission within 30 days of the date of submittal, the preliminary plat shall be considered approved and a certificate of approval shall be issued on demand. However, the applicant for approval may waive this requirement and consent to an extension of time.
ARTICLE VI. - PRELIMINARY PLAT SPECIFICATIONS

Section 601. - Scale.
The preliminary plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn at a scale not smaller than 100 feet to one inch.
Section 602. - Sheet size.
Sheet size shall be 18 inches by 24 inches where possible. If the complete plat cannot be shown on one sheet of this size, it may be shown on more than one sheet with an index map on a separate sheet of the same size.
Section 603. - Ground elevations.
The preliminary plat shall show ground elevations at two-foot contour intervals based on the datum plane of the U.S. Coast Guard and Geodetic Survey (or a datum plane approved by the city engineer). A tie to one or more bench marks shall be shown.
Section 604. - Information to be provided on preliminary plat.
The preliminary plat shall contain the following information:
a.
Name and address of owner of record and of subdivider.
b.
Proposed name of subdivision and its acreage.
c.
North point and graphic scale and date.
d.
Vicinity map showing location and acreage of the subdivision.
e.
Exact boundary lines of the tract by bearings and distances.
f.
Names of owners of record of adjoining land.
g.
Existing streets, utilities and easements on and adjacent to the tract.
h.
Proposed layout including streets and alleys with proposed street names, lot lines with approximate dimensions, easements, land to be reserved or dedicated for public uses, and any land to be used for purposes other than single-family dwellings.
i.
Block numbers and lot numbers.
j.
Provisions for water supply, sewerage and drainage. Location of and test data for soil percolation test and subsoil borings to a depth of six feet to determine ground water level and subsurface soil conditions on all lots where septic tank systems are planned.
k.
Minimum building front yard setback lines.
l.
Such street cross-sections and center line profiles as may be required by the city engineer.
Section 605. - Certificate of tentative approval.
A certificate of tentative approval of the preliminary plat by the planning commission shall be inscribed on the plat as follows:
"Pursuant to the land subdivision regulations of the City of Jesup, Georgia, all the requirements of tentative approval having been fulfilled, this preliminary plat was given tentative approval by the Jesup-Wayne County Planning Commission on ___________, 19___. This tentative approval does not constitute approval of a final plat. This certificate of tentative approval shall expire and be null and void on Date
EXPAND
_____
Date _____
Secretary
Jesup-Wayne County Planning Commission"
  ARTICLE VII. - FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE

Section 701. - Application for final plat approval.
After the preliminary plat of a proposed land subdivision has been given tentative approval by the planning commission, the subdivider may, within one year from tentative approval, submit to the planning commission:
a.
A letter requesting review and approval of a final plat and giving the name and address of the person to whom the notice of the hearing by the planning commission on the final plat shall be sent.
b.
Ten copies of the final plat and other documents, as specified in article V, the original and at least one copy of which shall be drawn in permanent ink on plastic vellum.
c.
A statement from the county sanitation officer approving the water supply and sewage disposal systems.
d.
A statement from the city engineer that all improvements have been made as required by this ordinance or that an adequate bond has been posted to cover the cost of the unfinished improvements as required in article XIII.
e.
The required recording fee for each sheet to be recorded.
Section 702. - Review of final plat.
The secretary of the planning commission, or other person or persons designated by the planning commission, shall check the final plat for conformance with the rules and regulations of this ordinance and report his findings and recommendations to the planning commission, which shall afford a hearing on the final plat, notice of the time and place of which shall be sent by the secretary of the planning commission by registered or certified mail to the person designated in the letter requesting final plat review and approval, not less than five days prior to the date of the hearing.
Thereafter, the planning commission shall approve or disapprove the final plat. A notation of the action shall be made on the original tracing and two prints of the final plat, including a statement of the reasons therefor if the final plat is disapproved. If action on a final plat is not taken by the planning commission within 30 days of the date of submittal, the final plat shall be considered approved and a certificate of approval shall be issued on demand. However, the applicant for approval may waive this requirement and consent to an extension of time.
After approval by the planning commission of the final plat, the same shall be referred by the secretary of the planning commission to the board of commissioners for review and approval by the board of commissioners. Within 15 days after said plat is submitted to the board of commissioners, the same shall be reviewed by the board of commissioners and accepted or rejected. The applicant for approval shall have the right to appear in support of approval. No final plat which has been approved by the planning commission shall be rejected by the board of commissioners unless the same shall fail to comply with the terms of this ordinance.
At the time said final plat is submitted for approval to the board of commissioners, a contract providing for the required improvements set forth in article XIII hereof shall be executed between the subdivider and the city upon such terms and conditions as the board of commissioners shall determine.
(Ord. of 9-9-1969)
Section 703. - Recording of final plat.
Upon approval of a final plat, the secretary of the planning commission shall have the final plat filed with the building inspector in the City Hall, Jesup, Georgia. Said plat may thereafter be recorded in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court, Wayne County, Georgia, by said subdivider, but such recording is not required.
(Ord. of 5-4-1993, § 2)
ARTICLE VIII. - FINAL PLAT SPECIFICATIONS

Section 801. - The final plat shall conform to and meet the specifications of the preliminary plat and certain additional specifications.
The final plat shall conform to and meet the specifications of the preliminary plat, with the following additions:
The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn in permanent ink on plastic vellum. Sheet sizes shall be 18 inches by 24 inches, and where more than one sheet is required, an index map shall be required on the same size sheet. The final plat shall show:
1.
Bearings and distances to the nearest existing street lines or bench marks or other permanent monuments (not less than three) shall be accurately described on the plat.
2.
Municipal, county and land-lot lines accurately tied to the lines of the subdivision by distance and angles when such lines traverse or are reasonably close to the subdivision.
3.
Exact boundary lines of the tract, determined by a field survey, giving distances to the nearest one-tenth foot and angles to the nearest minute, which shall be balanced and closed with an error of closure not to exceed one to 5,000.
4.
Name of subdivision, exact locations, widths and names of all streets and alleys within and immediately adjoining the plat.
5.
Street center lines showing angles of deflection, angles of intersection, radii, and lengths of tangent.
6.
Lot lines with dimensions to the nearest one-tenth foot, and bearings.
7.
Lots numbered in numerical order and blocks lettered alphabetically.
8.
Location, dimensions and purposes of any easements and any areas to be reserved or dedicated for public use.
9.
Accurate location, material, and description of monuments and markers.
10.
A statement, either directly on the plat or in an identified attached document, of any private covenants.
11.
The following certifications:
a.
An engineer's or surveyor's certification, directly on the final plat as follows: "It is hereby certified that this plat is true and correct and was prepared from an actual survey of the property by me or under my supervision; that all monuments shown hereon actually exist or are marked as 'Future,' and their location, size, type and material are correctly shown; and that all engineering requirements of the land subdivision ordinance of the City of Jesup, Georgia, have been fully complied with."
By: ___________
___________
Registered C.E. No. _____
Registered Georgia Land
Surveyor No. _____
b.
A certificate of approval of the final plat by the planning commission, directly on the plat, as follows: "Pursuant to the land subdivision ordinance of the City of Jesup, Georgia, all the requirements of approval having been fulfilled, this final plat was given final approval by the Jesup-Wayne County Planning Commission on ________, 19_____"
EXPAND
_____
Date _____
Secretary
Jesup-Wayne County Planning Commission"
  c.
A certificate of approval of the final plat by the board of commissioners directly on the plat as follows: "This subdivision plat has been approved by the board of commissioners for the City of Jesup. This _____ day of ________, 19_____."
(Ord. of 9-9-1969)
ARTICLE IX. - GENERAL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS

Section 901. - Suitability of land.
Land subject to flooding, improper drainage, or erosion, or that is for topographical or other reasons unsuitable for residential use shall not be platted for residential use nor for any other use that will continue or increase the danger to health, safety or property, unless the hazards can be and are corrected.
Section 902. - Name of subdivision.
The name of the subdivision must have the approval of the planning commission. The name shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the name of an existing subdivision in Wayne County.
Section 903. - Access.
Access to every subdivision shall be provided over a public street.
Section 904. - Conformance to adopted major-street and other plans.
All streets and other features of the major-street plan of the City of Jesup, Georgia, shall be platted by the subdivider in the location and to the dimension indicated on the major thoroughfare plan adopted by the planning commission.
When features of other plans adopted by the planning commission (such as schools or other public building sites, parks or other land for public uses) are located in whole or in part in a land subdivision, such features shall be either dedicated or reserved by the subdivider for acquisition within a reasonable time by the appropriate public agency.
Whenever a plat proposes the dedication of land to public use that the planning commission finds not required or suitable for such public use, the planning commission shall refuse to approve the plat, and shall notify the governing body of the reasons for such action.
Section 905. - Large-scale developments.
The requirements of this ordinance may be modified in the case of a large-scale community or neighborhood unit, such as a housing project or shopping center which is not subdivided into customary lots, blocks and streets, if the development is approved by the planning commission and if it is in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance.
ARTICLE X. - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR STREETS AND OTHER RIGHTS-OF-WAY

Section 1001. - Continuation of existing streets.
Existing streets shall be continued at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the required width.
Section 1002. - Street names.
Street names shall require the approval of the planning commission. Streets that are obviously in alignment with streets already existing and named shall be given the name of the existing street. Names of new streets shall not duplicate or closely approximate those of existing streets.
Section 1003. - Street jogs.
Street jogs with center line offsets of less than 125 feet shall not be permitted.
Section 1004. - Cul-de-sacs.
Except where topographic or other conditions make a greater length unavoidable, cul-de-sacs, or dead-end streets, shall not be greater in length than 600 feet. They shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having a property line radius of at least 50 feet with an outside pavement radius of at least 40 feet.
Section 1005. - Development along major street, limited-access highway or railroad right-of-way.
Where a subdivision abuts or contains a major street, a limited-access highway, or a railroad right-of-way, the planning commission may require a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way either as a marginal access street or, at a distance suitable for an appropriate use of the intervening land, with a nonaccess reservation suitably planted Due regard should be given requirements for approach grades and future grade separations in determining distances. Lots shall have no access to major street (or limited-access highway), but only to access street.
Section 1006. - Alleys.
Alleys may be required at the rear of all lots used for multi-family, commercial or industrial developments but shall not be provided in one- and two-family residential developments unless the subdivider provides evidence satisfactory to the planning commission of the need for alleys.
Section 1007. - Reserve strips.
Reserve strips shall not be permitted unless their control is placed in the hands of the governing body, under conditions approved by the governing body.
Section 1008. - Easements.
Easements having a minimum width of ten feet and located along the side or rear lot lines shall be provided, as required for utility lines, and underground mains and cables.
Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater or drainage right-of-way of adequate width as approved by the city engineer. Parallel streets may be required by the planning commission in connection therewith.
ARTICLE XI. - STREET DESIGN REQUIREMENTS[2]
Except as otherwise specified by the planning commission, all streets shall meet the following design requirements:
EXPAND
Type of Street
Major Collector Minor Alley
Right-of-way width (minimum) As shown on major street plan 60′ 50′ 20′
Pavement width (minimum) As shown on major street plan 37′ 22′ 20′
Maximum street grade 7% 10% 10% 14%
Minimum street grade .5% .5% .5% .5%
Minimum radius of center line curvature, horizontal curves 800′ 200′ 100′ 100′
Street intersections All street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles as possible. No street intersection shall be at an angle of less than 60 degrees, unless required by unusual circumstances.
Curbline radius at street intersections (minimum) 15′ 15′ 15′ 15′
(Where angle of intersection is less than 90 degrees more may be required.)
Minimum length of tangent between reverse curves 200′ 100′ None None
On vertical curves, a minimum sight distance at six feet above ground level 500′ 200′ None None
  Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Streets and sidewalks, ch. 86.

ARTICLE XII. - DESIGN STANDARDS FOR BLOCKS AND LOTS

Section 1201. - Block lengths and widths.
Block lengths and widths shall be as follows:
a.
Blocks shall be not greater than 1,800 feet nor less than 600 feet in length, except in unusual circumstances.
b.
Blocks shall be wide enough to provide two tiers of lots of minimum depth, except where abutting upon major streets, limited-access highways, or railroads or where other situations make this requirement impracticable.
Section 1202. - Lot sizes.
Residential lots shall meet the lot width and lot area requirements of the zoning ordinance.
Residential lots shall have a depth of not less than 100 feet and not greater than two times the width of the lot at the building line, unless unusual circumstances make these limitations not practicable.
Where individual septic tanks are used on residential lots served by an approved central water system, the lot size shall be no less than 12,000 square feet, and residential lots not served by an approved central water system shall be no less than 18,000 square feet in area or such greater area as the Wayne County Health Department may determine based upon boring for ground water level, soil data and soil percolation test, submitted for review.
Commercial and industrial lots shall be adequate width to meet building setback requirements from both abutting streets.
Section 1203. - Lot lines.
All lot lines shall be perpendicular or radial to street lines, unless not practicable because of topographic or other features.
Section 1204. - Building lines.
A building line meeting the front yard setback requirements of the zoning ordinance shall be established on all lots.
Section 1205. - Lots abutting public streets.
Each lot shall abut upon a dedicated public street.
Section 1206. - Double and reverse frontage lots.
Double frontage, and reverse frontage lots, should be avoided except where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. A planting screen easement of at least ten feet, and across which there shall be no right of access, shall be provided along the line of lots abutting such a traffic artery or other disadvantageous use.
ARTICLE XIII. - REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS

Section 1301. - Required improvements.
Prior to the granting of final approval, the subdivider shall have installed or shall have entered into a written contract with the City of Jesup providing for the ultimate installation of and compliance with the following:
(a)
Monuments shall be placed at all block corners, angle points, points of curves and streets, and at intermediate points, as required and determined by the city engineer.
(b)
All streets shall be staked, graded, based and prepared for paving in accordance with the applicable standard specifications of the city.
(c)
Drainage and drainage structures shall be provided in accordance with the standard specifications of the city.
(d)
Street signs shall be placed at all street intersections within or abutting the subdivision. Such signs shall be of a type approved by the city and shall be placed in accordance with the standards adopted by the city.
(e)
Sanitary sewer lines and manholes, conforming to standard specifications of the city, shall be installed where a public sanitary sewer line is reasonably accessible. Where such sanitary sewer lines and manholes are required, the subdivider shall be responsible for payment of all materials required for the installation of such sanitary sewer lines and manholes to and within the subdivision. The city shall provide the labor for the installation of the sewer lines and manholes where such work can be done with city employees and city-owned equipment and at such time as the city's work schedule permits. All work required for the installation of such sewer lines and manholes which cannot be done with city employees and city-owned equipment shall be the responsibility of the subdivider.
If the subdivider does not install such public sanitary sewers, the subdivider shall install individual sewage disposal devices for each lot at the time improvements are erected thereon. All such individual sewage disposal systems shall be constructed in accordance with health department's specifications. The subdivider shall receive approval for each individual sewage disposal system from the health department prior to the issuance of a building permit.
(f)
Where public water supply is reasonably accessible to the subdivision, each lot within the subdivision shall be provided with a connection thereto. The subdivider shall be responsible for the payment of all materials for the installation of the water system in the subdivision, and the city shall provide the labor for the installation of such water system at such time as the city's work schedule permits.
Where public water supply is not reasonably accessible to the subdivision, the subdivider shall construct wells or a private water supply system in such a manner that an adequate supply of potable water will be available to every lot in the subdivision. The adequacy, healthfulness and potableness of the water supply shall be subject to the approval of the health department. The subdivider shall receive approval for any such wells or private water supply system from the health department prior to the issuance of any building permit.
(g)
In the subdivision where a public water supply is provided, fire hydrants shall be installed at such locations as required by the engineer. Payment for same shall be as provided in paragraph (f) above.
(h)
All streets in the subdivision shall be paved, curbed and guttered. The city shall be responsible for paying one-third of the cost of the labor and materials for the curbing and guttering in the subdivision, and the subdivider shall be responsible for two-thirds of the cost of the labor and materials for such curbing and guttering. The subdivider shall be responsible for all costs of the paving of the streets within the subdivision.
(i)
The subdivider shall develop a lighting plan for the subdivision which shall meet the approval of the city engineer and/or city building inspector. Each light in the subdivision shall be connected to a residence and paid for by the subdivider and/or resident(s) of the subdivision.
(j)
All improvements required under this section shall be constructed in accordance with standards specified by the city and with the approval of the city engineer, and all construction shall be under the supervision of and accepted by the city engineer.
(k)
All improvements required under this section may be done in phases in the development of the subdivision, as approved by the city engineer and/or city building inspector.
(l)
As a condition precedent to the contract for improvements between the subdivider and the city, the subdivider shall furnish to the city such assurance as may be required by the city for the ultimate completion of the improvements in the subdivision as set forth above.
(m)
Should the subdivider fail to comply with any of the terms of this section or the contract entered into with the city, the city may revoke the entire contract with the subdivider and the approval of the subdivision, and thereafter refuse to grant any permits for building in said subdivision.
(n)
The contract and all plans and specifications for improvements required herein shall be kept and maintained as a permanent record by the city.
(Ord. of 9-16-1975, § 1; Ord. of 5-20-1986, § 2; Ord. of 5-4-1993, § 3; Ord. of 12-1-1998)
Section 1302. - Bond for improvements.
To insure the installation of the improvements required by section 1301 hereof, the subdivider shall furnish a surety bond executed by a surety acceptable to the board of commissioners for the City of Jesup in an amount equal to the estimated cost of construction of such required improvements as determined by the city engineer.
Section 1303. - Parks and public places.
Where a proposed park, playground or other public use area, shown in the city plan, is located in whole or in part in a subdivision, the board of commissioners may require the dedication or reservation of such area within the subdivision when the board of commissioners shall deem such requirements to be reasonable; provided, however, that just and adequate compensation shall be paid the owner for such property.
Section 1304. - Labor cost for water/sewer line installation; credits towards ad valorem taxes.
The City of Jesup will furnish the labor for installation of the water lines and/or sewer lines within the subdivision, when the city labor forces are capable of performing such work and within its manpower and/or budgetary capabilities.
In the event that the subdivider installs within the subdivision water and/or sewer lines connected to the city water and/or city sewer system, then the city will credit the cost of labor towards the subdivider's ad valorem taxes each year until such costs are fully paid; provided, however, all such labor costs of the subdivider shall be approved by the city prior to the commencement of any such work. The ad valorem tax credits for such work may be transferred by the subdivider to subsequent owners of the property involved in such improvements, with the written consent of the city.
All such water and/or sewer line improvements of the subdivider shall be conveyed to the city upon completion of the installation of such improvements.
(Ord. of 5-4-1993, § 6; Ord. of 12-1-1998, § 1)
ARTICLE XIV - SEVERABILITY
It is intended that the provisions of this ordinance be severable and should any portion be held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect any other portion of this ordinance.
ARTICLE XV - REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES
The subdivision ordinance of the City of Jesup adopted September 21, 1954, as amended, is hereby repealed in its entirety.
ARTICLE XVI. - EFFECTIVE DATE

Section 1601. - Effective date of ordinance.
This ordinance shall take effect and be in force after the date of its adoption, the public welfare demanding it.
Adopted by the board of commissioners of Jesup, Georgia, this eighth day of July, 1969.
