ARTICLE VIII. - RECORDS MANAGEMENT

Sec. 2-192. - Purpose and intent.
The county board of commissioner has determined that its records are public property, and that some of those records contain information needed for varying lengths of time for the conduct of public business, are essential for varying lengths of time for continuity of government or for the protection of the rights and privileges of our citizens, and contain information that is essential as documentary evidence of local heritage. It is in the best interests of the citizens of the county that an efficient and cost effective records management plan be adopted and implemented which will cause any records whose usefulness has ended to be destroyed and which will cause those records which have enduring value to be preserved.
(Ord. of 12-13-1983)
Sec. 2-193. - Director of management activities.
The county board of commissioners may from time to time appoint a director of records management, and the director so appointed shall serve as such at the pleasure of said commission. The director shall be authorized to act for and on behalf of the county board of commissioners in directing and coordinating all records management matters under the state records act.
(Ord. of 12-13-1983; Res. of 11-8-1999)
State Law reference— County records as public property; duty to adopt records management plan, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-99.
Sec. 2-194. - Retention schedule.
County records shall be maintained in accordance with retention schedules provided by the state, department of archives and history, and the commission shall designate a proper place where said permanent records shall be stored.
(Ord. of 12-13-1983; Res. of 11-8-1999)
State Law reference— Maintenance of county records, O.C.G.A. § 36-9-5
Sec. 2-195. - Records destruction.
(a)
The county board of commissioners has determined that all records created in county offices are not permanent records.
(b)
All county offices will abide by the records retention schedules created by the state department of archives and history.
(c)
Written documentation will be made of those records to be destroyed, listing the type and date of the records along with the date the records are destroyed and the method of destruction.
(d)
The department head will sign this documentation with the original being kept in that department and a copy being kept in the office of the board of commissioners.
(e)
A witness must be in attendance when records are destroyed, and the witness shall sign a statement verifying the date and method of destruction.
(Res. of 12-11-2000)
State Law reference— Disposal of public records, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-102.
Sec. 2-196. - Designation of county records custodian.
The Clerk of the Johnson County Board of Commissioners, as appointed by the board from time to time, shall be the Records Custodian for Johnson County. Said records custodian shall have all authority as previously set forth in the 1999 resolution for the coordinator to direct and coordinate all records management matters under the Georgia Records Act.
The records custodian shall maintain and store any and all records under his or her control at one or more county maintained facilities as he or she may designate from time to time.
(Res. of 2-10-2014)
Editor's note— A resolution adopted Feb. 10, 2014, added provisions that were not specifically amendatory. At the editor's discretion, said provisions were included as § 2-196.
Secs. 2-197—2-213. - Reserved.
