ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

Sec. 2-19. - Open meetings.
The county board of commissioners has determined that well-organized meetings allow a board of commissioners to reach decisions in a fair and consistent manner, that efficiency is served when the process of planning for and conducting public meetings is clearly stated and understood by public officials and citizens, and public participation and access to the governmental decision making process is a key element of our democratic system.
(Ord. of 9-10-2001, § 1-01)
State Law reference— Open meeting required, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1.
Sec. 2-20. - Number of commissioners; quorum; voting.
The county board of commissioners consists of five commissioners. Three commissioners shall constitute a quorum. A quorum must be present for conducting meetings of the board. Passage of a motion shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of commissioners present at a meeting at which a quorum is present.
(Ord. of 9-10-2001, §§ 1-02, 1-03)
Sec. 2-21. - Chairman; vice-chairman.
The board shall select a chairman and vice-chairman from the board members at the beginning of each calendar year. The chairman of the board of commissioners is responsible for the orderly conduct of the meeting. The chairman may participate in all deliberations and make, second, and vote on all motions to come before the commission. The chairman shall have the same and equal rights as any other member of the board to fully participate in the legislative process of county government.
(Ord. of 9-10-2001, § 1-04)
Sec. 2-22. - Agenda.
(a)
The county administrator, with the advice of the chairman and the commissioners, shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. The agenda shall be made available to the commissioners and to the public at some time during the week immediately prior to the meeting.
(b)
Members of the public may request that a particular subject be placed on the agenda for the following meeting. This request must be submitted in writing to the county administrator and received at least three business days before the meeting.
(c)
A new subject that requires attention may be added to the agenda during a meeting by a majority vote of the board.
(d)
When a motion before the board is defeated, a motion regarding the same or a substantially similar subject may not be raised before the board for a period of six months from the date of its defeat without unanimous consent of the board.
(e)
The agenda for the regular monthly session is to be closed on the first Tuesday of each month at 5:00 p.m.
(Ord. of 9-10-2001, § 5; Res. of 1-12-2001)
State Law reference— Meeting agenda required, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1.
Sec. 2-23. - Public comments.
All members of the public who wish to address the board must submit their name and the topic of their comments to the county administrator at least three business days before the board meeting. These individuals will be allotted five minutes to make their comments and their comments must be limited to their chosen topic.
(Ord. of 9-10-2001, § 1-08)
Sec. 2-24. - Repetitious complaints.
Persons will be limited to one appearance during a six-month period before the board of commissioners for a specific complaint. A request by or for that person to be heard again on the same issue must be approved by a majority of board members. The board may set a time limit on the presentation of any person.
(Res. of 8-9-1999)
Sec. 2-25. - Minutes.
(a)
A summary of the subjects acted on and those members present at a meeting must be written and made available to the public for inspection within two business days of the adjournment of a meeting. The secretary of the board shall promptly record the minutes for each board meeting and such records shall be open to public inspection once approved as official by the board, but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the board.
(b)
Minutes must, as a minimum, include the names of the members present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made, and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll-call vote the name of each person voting for or against a proposal must be recorded. In all other cases it shall be presumed that the action taken was approved by each person in attendance unless the minutes reflect the name of the persons voting against the proposal or abstaining.
(Ord. of 9-10-2001, § 1-06)
State Law reference— Minutes of county governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-25.
Sec. 2-26. - Order of business.
All regular board meetings should follow an established order of business. The order is as follows:
(1)
Call to order;
(2)
Minutes read;
(3)
Approval of bills;
(4)
Invited guests;
(5)
Reports from committees and departments;
(6)
Old business;
(7)
New business;
(8)
Public comments; and
(9)
Adjournment.
(Ord. of 9-10-2001, § 1-07)
Sec. 2-27. - Regular meetings.
Regular meetings of the board of commissioners shall be held at 6:00 p.m. on the second Monday. All regular meetings shall be held in the Grand Jury Room of the county courthouse. A notice containing the foregoing information shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the general public at the county courthouse.
(Ord. of 9-10-2001, § 1-09; Ord. of 9-9-2002)
Sec. 2-28. - Special meetings.
Special meetings may be scheduled by the chairman or at the request of two commissioners. Written notice of meeting must be posted at least 24 hours at the place of the regular meetings. In addition, written or oral notice shall be given at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting to the legal organ of the county.
(Ord. of 9-10-2001, § 1-10)
Sec. 2-29. - Emergency meetings.
When emergency circumstances occur, the board may hold a meeting with less than 24 hours' notice to the public. Notice shall be provided to the legal organ of the county as soon as possible. Notice shall include the subjects expected to be considered at the meeting. The reason for holding the meeting within 24 hours and the nature of the notice must be recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. of 9-10-2001, § 1-10)
Sec. 2-30. - Executive or closed meetings.
A meeting or portion of a meeting may be closed to the public to discuss any matter that is exempted by the open meetings law. The specific reason for such closure must be entered upon the official minutes of the meeting. The meeting cannot be closed to the public except by a majority vote of a quorum present for the meeting. The minutes must reflect the names of the members present and the names of those voting for closure. The chairperson must execute and file with the official minutes of the meeting a notarized affidavit stating under oath that the subject matter of the meeting was devoted to matters with the exceptions provided by law and identifying the specific relevant exception.
(Ord. of 9-10-2001, § 1-11)
State Law reference— Procedure for closing meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-4.
Sec. 2-31. - Smoke-free facility.
(a)
The county provides a smoke-free environment in the county courthouse. The county courthouse is clearly designated by a "No Smoking" sign, and there shall be no smoking in the courthouse. This policy is applicable to all elected officials, employees, and visitors in the courthouse.
(b)
Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this section shall be subject to punishment as provided in section 1-8 of this Code.
(Res. of 12-9-1996; Res. of 1-10-2000)
Sec. 2-32. - Committees.
(a)
The chairman, with the concurrence of the board, may create committees of members of the board to study any issue before the board. Any such committee may make recommendations to the board of commissioners, but no committee shall be empowered to make any final decision on any matter before it for consideration. In addition to board members, committees may include other county officials, staff or citizens at large.
(b)
Whenever a committee is created, its duties, any limitation on the scope of its duties, and the times, places and periods of time for which the committee may operate shall be determined by the chairman with the concurrence of the board. The chairman shall serve as an ex officio member of all committees.
(Ord. of 9-10-2001, § 1-12)
Secs. 2-33—2-52. - Reserved.
