ARTICLE XIV. - INVESTMENTS

Sec. 2-371. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to ensure the safety and liquidity of investments and to ensure the highest possible return on investments and to maximize the utilization of excess county funds.
(Code 2002, § 1-4-1)
Sec. 2-372. - Scope.
This investment policy applies to all funds under the control of the county and accounted for in an annual financial report and includes:
(1)
General fund;
(2)
Special revenue fund;
(3)
Jail fund;
(4)
Capital project fund; and
(5)
Other funds as may be created.
(Code 2002, § 1-4-2)
Sec. 2-373. - Investment criteria.
The county's investment criteria in order of priority are:
(1)
Safety. Preservation of principal shall always be the foremost objective in any investment transaction involving county funds. Those individuals investing funds on the county's behalf must first ensure that capital losses are avoided by limiting credit and interest risk. Credit risk is the risk of loss due to the failure of the security issues or backer. Interest risk is the risk that market value portfolios will fall due to an increase in general interest rates.
(2)
Liquidity. The second objective shall be the maintenance of sufficient liquidity within the investment portfolio. The county's investment portfolio shall be structured such that securities mature at the time when cash is needed to meet anticipated demands (static liquidity). Additionally, since all possible cash demands cannot be anticipated, the portfolio should maintain some securities with active secondary or resale markets (dynamic liquidity).
(3)
Return on investment. The third objective shall be the realization of competitive investment rates, relative to the risk being assumed. However, yield on the county's investment portfolio is of secondary importance compared to the safety and liquidity objectives described in this section.
(Code 2002, § 1-4-3)
Sec. 2-374. - Delegation of authority.
The board of commissioners of the county shall establish the overall investment policies for the county. The county administrator is designated as the investment director for the county and authorized to make all appropriate investment decisions within the scope of those policies. The county administrator shall maintain a standard of prudence in accord with the "prudent person rule" that all investment decisions will be made with the judgment and care a person of intelligence and prudence would exercise in the administration of their own affairs.
(Code 2002, § 1-4-4)
Sec. 2-375. - Acceptable investments.
All investments of the county shall adhere to O.C.G.A. § 36-83-4 and the county may invest and reinvest any money subject to its control and jurisdiction in:
(1)
Obligations of this state or of other states;
(2)
Obligations issued by the federal government;
(3)
Obligations fully insured or guaranteed by the federal government or a federal government agency;
(4)
Obligations of any corporation of the federal government;
(5)
Prime bankers' acceptances;
(6)
The local government investment pool established by O.C.G.A. § 36-83-8;
(7)
Repurchase agreements; and
(8)
Obligations of other political subdivisions of the state.
(Code 2002, § 1-4-5)
Sec. 2-376. - Allocation of interest.
All interest earned from investments unless otherwise indicated by action of the board of commissioners shall be retained within the fund generating the interest.
(Code 2002, § 1-4-6)
Sec. 2-377. - Cash and investments.
The county shall require pledges of collateral for all cash deposits and investments from depository institutions as required by the O.C.G.A. § 36-83-5.
(Code 2002, § 1-4-7)
Secs. 2-378—2-397. - Reserved.
