Subpart B - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - PARKS AND RECREATION AUTHORITY[1]
A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT
To create the City of Johns Creek Parks and Recreation Authority; to authorize such authority to acquire, construct, equip, maintain, and operate or contract for services to provide athletic and recreational centers, facilities, and areas, including, but not limited to, playgrounds, parks, hiking, camping, and picnicking areas and facilities, swimming and wading pools, lakes, tennis courts, athletic fields and courts, clubhouses, gymnasiums, auditoriums, youth centers, senior citizen centers, stadiums, performing arts centers, cultural centers, related buildings, golf courses, and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extensions and improvements of such facilities; to acquire parking facilities and parking areas in connection therewith; to acquire the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, and to lease or sell any or all of such facilities, including real property; to confer powers and to impose duties on the authority, the determination of which shall be in the sole discretion of the mayor and city council; to provide for the membership and for the appointment of members of the authority; to authorize the authority to contract with others pertaining to such recreational facilities, including the authority to contract for services to operate any facility or portion thereof, to execute leases of such facilities, to convey title to real property of the authority in fee simple, and to do all things deemed necessary or convenient for the operation of such undertakings; to authorize the authority and other political subdivisions to enter into contracts pertaining to uses of such facilities for the term thereof and to pledge to that purpose revenues derived from taxation; to provide that no debt of Fulton County or the City of Johns Creek or other political subdivisions, within the meaning of Article IX, Section III, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia [Georgia Constitution article IX, § III, ¶ I], shall be incurred by exercise of the powers granted; to authorize the issuance of revenue bonds or obligations of the authority; to authorize the collection and pledging of the revenues and earnings of the authority for the payment of such bonds or obligations and to secure the payment thereof; to define the rights of the holders of such bonds or obligations; to make the property of the authority exempt from taxation and assessment; to grant the authority and its members certain immunities; to authorize the issuance of refunding bonds or obligations; to fix the venue or jurisdiction of actions; to provide that bonds be validated as authorized by Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the "Revenue Bond Law" [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.]; to provide for construction; to provide for personnel; to provide for conveyance of property upon dissolution; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in part I, subpart B, article I, is 2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 171), page 3857. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform, as appearing in the Code of Ordinances. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - [Citation.]
This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "City of Johns Creek Parks and Recreation Authority Act."
Sec. 2. - [Park and recreation authority created.]
(a)
There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the City of Johns Creek Parks and Recreation Authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation. By that name, style, and title, said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, except that the authority or the trustee acting under the trust indenture shall in no event be liable for any torts committed by any of the officers, agents, and employees. The authority shall not be a state institution nor a department or agency of the state but shall be an instrumentality of the state, a mere creation of the state, having a distinct corporate entity and being exempt from the provisions of Article 2 of Chapter 17 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 50-17-20 et seq.], the "Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission Act." The authority shall have its principal office in the City of Johns Creek and its legal situs for the purposes of this Act shall be Fulton County. The authority is granted the same exemptions and exclusions from taxes as are now granted to cities and counties for the operation of facilities similar to facilities to be operated by the authority as provided under the provisions of this Act.
(b)
The authority shall consist of five members who shall be residents of the City of Johns Creek and who shall be appointed by the mayor. An appointment by the mayor must be confirmed by a majority vote of the City of Johns Creek councilmembers and mayor or such appointment shall not be effective. The mayor shall initially appoint two members for terms of two years each, two for terms of four years each, and one for a term of six years. After expiration of the initial terms, the terms of all members shall be six years. If at the end of any term of office of any member, a successor to such member has not been appointed, the member whose term of office has expired shall continue to hold office until a successor is elected. A majority of the authority shall constitute a quorum.
(c)
One member of the council or the mayor of the City of Johns Creek may be appointed to serve as a member of the authority.
(d)
Any member of the authority may be selected and appointed to succeed himself or herself. Immediately after such appointments, the members of such authority shall enter upon their duties.
(e)
Any vacancy on the authority shall be filled in the same manner as was the original appointment of the member whose termination of membership resulted in such vacancy, and the person so selected and appointed shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(f)
The authority shall elect one of its members as chairperson and one of its members as vice chairperson. The clerk of the City of Johns Creek shall be the secretary and treasurer. Said clerk shall not be a member of the authority.
(g)
Three members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority.
(h)
The members of the authority shall be reimbursed for all actual expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties out of funds of the authority.
(i)
The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence.
(j)
Any member of the authority may be removed from office by the mayor for failure to perform his or her duties as a member of the authority. Any such removal must be confirmed by a majority vote of the city councilmembers and mayor, or such removal shall not take effect. Such failure shall include without limitation absence from three consecutive meetings of the authority, unless excused by reasonable grounds as determined by the mayor. Any office so vacated shall be filled within 60 days by appointment as provided in subsection (e) of this section. The new appointee shall serve the remainder of the unexpired term to which he or she is appointed.
Sec. 3. - [Definitions.]
(a)
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
Authority shall mean the City of Johns Creek Parks and Recreation Authority created in Section 2 of this Act.
(2)
Cost of the project shall embrace the cost of acquisition and construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired and the cost of all conveyances in fee simple of the authority's title thereto and leases thereof; the cost of all machinery and equipment and financing charges and interest prior to and during construction and for one year after construction; the cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal, and legal expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; administrative expenses and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized by this Act; and the cost of the acquisition and construction of any project and the placing of the same in operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the costs of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for such projects.
(3)
Mayor shall mean the Mayor of the City of Johns Creek.
(4)
Project shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition, construction, equipping, maintenance, and operation of athletic and recreation centers, facilities, and areas, including, but not limited to, playgrounds, parks, hiking, camping, and picnicking areas and facilities, swimming and wading pools, lakes, tennis courts, athletic fields and courts, clubhouses, gymnasiums, auditoriums, youth centers, senior citizen centers, stadiums, museums, related buildings, golf courses, and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extensions and improvements of such facilities; the acquisition of parking facilities or parking areas in connection therewith; the acquisition of the property necessary therefor, both real and personal, and the lease and sale of any part or all of such facilities, including real or personal property, so as to ensure the efficient and proper development, maintenance, and operation of such recreational facilities and areas deemed by the authority to be necessary, convenient, or desirable.
(5)
Revenue bonds, bonds, andobligations mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.], the "Revenue Bond Law," and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under the "Revenue Bond Law" and any amendments thereto and, in addition, shall mean obligations of the authority, the issuance of which are specifically provided for in this Act.
(b)
Any project shall be deemed self-liquidating if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom, including the anticipated revenues and earnings from the lease of any project, and all properties used, leased, and sold in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the cost of acquiring, operating, maintaining, repairing, improving, and extending the project and to pay the principal of and interest on the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
Sec. 4. - [Powers of the authority.]
(a)
The authority shall have the following powers:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or rights or easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of the same, or to dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority. If the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project on any lands, the title to which shall then be in the State of Georgia, the Governor is authorized to convey for and in behalf of the state title to such lands to the authority upon payment to the State of Georgia for the credit of the general fund of the state of the reasonable value of such lands upon the receipt of such lawful consideration as may be determined by the parties to such conveyance. If the authority shall deem it expedient to acquire and construct any project on any lands, the title to which shall be in the name of the City of Johns Creek, Fulton County or any municipality incorporated in said county, the governing authority or body of said municipalities is authorized to convey title to such lands to the authority upon the receipt of such lawful consideration as may be determined by the parties to such conveyances or upon payment for the credit of the general funds of such county or municipalities of the reasonable value of such lands, such value to be determined by mutual consent of such county or municipality and the authority or by an appraiser to be agreed upon by the governing authority or body of such county or municipality and the chairperson of the authority;
(4)
To appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees, including engineers, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents, and attorneys, and fix their respective compensation;
(5)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for the acquisition and construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which the authority causes to be erected or acquired, including contracts for acquiring, constructing, renting, and leasing of its projects for the use of Fulton County or any municipality in Fulton County, and to dispose by conveyance of its title in fee simple of real and personal property of every kind and character; any and all persons, firms, and corporations and the state and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the state are authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and, without limiting the generality of the above, authorization is specifically granted to municipal corporations and counties and to the authority to enter into contracts and lease and sublease agreements with the State of Georgia or any agencies or departments thereof relative to parks and recreation centers, areas, and facilities and relative to any property which such department or agency of the State of Georgia has now or may hereafter obtain by lease from the United States government or any agency or department thereof, and the authority is specifically authorized to convey title in fee simple to any and all of its lands and any improvements thereon to any persons, firms, corporations, municipalities, or the State of Georgia or the United States government, or any agencies or departments thereof, subject to the rights and interest of the holders of any of the bonds or obligations authorized to be issued pursuant to this Act and by the resolution or trust indenture of the authority authorizing the issuance of any of its bonds or obligations as provided in this Act;
(6)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and manage projects as defined in this Act, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds or other funds of the authority or from such proceeds or other funds and any grant from the United States of America and any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(7)
To accept loans, gifts, and grants of money, materials, or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality thereof may impose;
(8)
To accept loans, gifts, and grants of money, materials, or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof may impose;
(9)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes, to execute evidence of such indebtedness, to secure the same, to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from the funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(10)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this state;
(11)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes from any banks or other lending institutions and to execute evidence of such indebtedness and to secure the same by assigning all rights to and pledging all funds to be received by the authority from a lease or leases entered into by the authority as the lessor;
(12)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act; and
(13)
To make recommendations to the mayor and City Council of Johns Creek on land acquisitions, facilities, development, and other matters relating to the provisions of recreation and recreational opportunities to the citizens of Johns Creek.
(b)
The authority and the trustee acting under a trust indenture are specifically authorized from time to time to sell, lease, grant, exchange, or otherwise dispose of any surplus property, both real and personal, or interest therein not required in the normal operation of the authority and usable in the furtherance of the purpose for which the authority was created.
Sec. 5. - [Revenue bonds.]
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the authority created by this Act, shall have power and is authorized at one time or from time to time to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as defined in this Act of any one or more projects. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund provided for in this Act for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated and shall bear interest at such rate or rates as determined by the authority, payable on such dates as determined by the authority. The bonds shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority and may be made redeemable before maturity at the option of the authority at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. Such revenue bonds or obligations shall be issued pursuant to and in conformity with the "Revenue Bond Law," and all procedures pertaining to such issuance and the conditions thereof shall be the same as those contained in the "Revenue Bond Law" and any amendments thereto.
Sec. 6. - [Bonds exempt from taxation.]
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose, and such bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation by the state.
Sec. 7. - [Selling revenue bonds.]
The authority may sell such revenue bonds in such manner and for such prices as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority, and the proceeds derived from the sale of such bonds shall be used solely for the purpose provided in the proceedings authorizing the issuance of such bonds.
Sec. 8. - [Bond issuance.]
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by the "Revenue Bond Law." Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular, special, or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of its members, subject to the provisions of Chapter 14 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.], governing open and public meetings.
Sec. 9. - [Bonds not a debt; obligation.]
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the State of Georgia or of the City of Johns Creek or a pledge of the faith and credit thereof; but such bonds shall be payable solely from the rentals, revenues, earnings, and funds of the authority as provided in the resolution or trust indenture authorizing the issuance and securing the payment of such bonds. The issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate the state or any political subdivision thereof, specifically such city, to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section. However, the City of Johns Creek or any political subdivision of the state contracting with the authority may obligate itself to pay the amounts required under any contract entered into with the authority from funds received from taxes to be levied and collected for that purpose to the extent necessary to pay the obligations contractually incurred under this section and from any other source; and the obligation to make such payments shall constitute a general obligation and a pledge of the full faith and credit of the obligor but shall not constitute a debt of the obligor within the meaning of Article IX, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia [Georgia Constitution article IX, § V, ¶ I]. When such obligation is made to make such payments from taxes to be levied for that purpose, then the obligation shall be mandatory to levy and collect such taxes from year to year in an amount sufficient to fulfill and fully comply with the terms of such obligation.
Sec. 10. - [Pledging revenues by the authority.]
The revenues, rents, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects and any and all revenues, rents, and earnings received by the authority, regardless of whether such revenues, rents, and earnings were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged, may be pledged by the authority to the payment of the principal of and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as may be provided in any resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or in any trust indenture pertaining to such bonds. Such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which may include funds received from one or more or all sources, may be set aside at regular intervals into sinking funds for which provision may be made in any such resolution or trust indenture and which may be pledged to and charged with the payment of: (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall become due; (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall mature; (3) the necessary charges of any trustee or agent of paying such principal and interest; and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase. The use and disposition of any sinking fund may be subject to such regulation as may be provided for in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture securing the payment of the same.
Sec. 11. - [Exercise in powers.]
The exercise of the powers conferred upon the authority in this Act shall constitute an essential governmental function for a public purpose, and the authority shall be required to pay no taxes or assessments upon any of the property acquired by it or under its jurisdiction, control, possession, or supervision or upon its activities in the operation and maintenance of property acquired by it or of buildings erected or acquired by it or any fees, rentals, or other charges for the use of such property or buildings or other income received by the authority. The tax exemption provided in this Act shall not include an exemption from sales and use tax on property purchased by or for the use of the authority.
Sec. 12. - [Immunity and exemptions from liability.]
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemptions from liability for torts and negligence as the State of Georgia and the officers, agents, and employees of the authority, when in performance of work of the authority, shall have the same immunity from liability for torts and negligence as officers, agents, and employees of the State of Georgia. The authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligation of the authority.
Sec. 13. - [Protection and enforcement of rights.]
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Fulton County and any action pertaining to the validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in that court which shall have exclusive original jurisdiction of such actions.
Sec. 14. - [Confirmation and validation of bond issuance.]
Bonds issued by the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedures of the "Revenue Bond Law." The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action the State of Georgia or any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or the United States government or any department or agency of the United States government, if subject to being sued and if consenting to same, which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated, and the state or such municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts be adjudicated as part of the basis of the security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the authority issuing the same, the state and any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the authority.
Sec. 15. - [Authority powers and duties for outstanding bond issues.]
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of the authority or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the authority. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds and, upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions of this Act, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
Sec. 16. - [Trust funds.]
All funds received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds or as revenue, rents, fees, charges, or other earnings or as grants, gifts, or other contributions, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied by the authority solely as provided in this Act, and the bondholders entitled to receive the benefits of such funds shall have a lien on all such funds until the same are applied as provided for in any such resolution or trust indenture of the authority.
Sec. 17. - [Authorization to appoint, select, and employ.]
The City of Johns Creek Parks and Recreation Authority is authorized to appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees and adopt rules and regulations governing their services and fix their respective compensations and terms of employment.
Sec. 18. - [Accomplishment of authority purposes.]
This Act and any other law enacted with reference to the City of Johns Creek Parks and Recreation Authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of the purposes of the authority.
Sec. 19. - [Dissolution of authority.]
Should the authority for any reason be dissolved after full payment of all bonded indebtedness incurred under the provisions of this Act, both as to principal and interest, title to all property of any kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution shall be conveyed to the City of Johns Creek; or title to any such property may be conveyed prior to such dissolution in accordance with provisions which may be made therefor in any resolution or trust indenture relating to such property, subject to any liens, leases, or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at the time of such conveyance.
Sec. 20. - [Laws in conflict with Act.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed
ARTICLE II. - PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES AUTHORITY[2]
A BILL TO BE ENTITLED
AN ACT
To create the City of Johns Creek Public Buildings and Facilities Authority and to provide for the appointment of members of the authority; to confer powers upon the authority; to authorize the issuance of revenue bonds of the authority payable from the revenues, tolls, fees, charges, and earnings of the authority, to contract payments to the authority from other moneys pledged therefor, and to authorize the collection and pledging of the revenues, tolls, fees, charges, earnings, and contract payments of the authority for the payment of such revenue bonds; to authorize the execution of resolutions and trust indentures to secure the payment of the revenue bonds of the authority and to define the rights of the holders of such obligations; to make the revenue bonds of the authority exempt from taxation; to fix and provide the venue and jurisdiction of actions relating to any provisions of this Act; to provide for the validation of bonds; to provide for the separate enactment of each provision of this Act; to provide for related matters; to provide for an effective date; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed in part I, subpart B, article II, is 2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 170), page 3845. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform, as appearing in the Code of Ordinances. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Short title.
This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "City of Johns Creek Public Buildings and Facilities Authority Act."
Sec. 2. - City of Johns Creek Public Buildings and Facilities Authority.
(a)
There is hereby created a public body corporate and politic to be known as the "City of Johns Creek Public Buildings and Facilities Authority," which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of this state and a public corporation, and by that name, style, and title, said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(b)
The authority shall consist of five members who shall be appointed by the mayor of Johns Creek. The mayor's appointment shall be confirmed by a majority vote of the city councilmembers and mayor, or the appointment shall not be effective. With respect to the initial appointment by the mayor, two members shall be appointed for a term of three years, two members shall be appointed for a term of two years, and one member shall be appointed for a term of one year. Thereafter, all appointments shall be made for terms of three years and until successors are appointed and qualified. Immediately after such appointments, the members of the authority shall enter upon their duties. To be eligible for appointment as a member of the authority, a person shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be a resident of the City of Johns Creek, Georgia, for at least one year prior to the date of his or her appointment, and shall not have been convicted of a felony. Any member of the authority may be selected and appointed to succeed himself or herself.
(c)
The mayor of the City of Johns Creek may provide by resolution for compensation for the services of the members of the authority in such amounts as they may deem appropriate; provided, however, that such members shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
(d)
The members of the authority shall elect one of their number as chairperson and another as vice chairperson. The members of the authority shall also elect a secretary, who need not be a member of the authority, and may also elect a treasurer, who need not be a member of the authority. The secretary may also serve as treasurer. If the secretary and treasurer are not members of the authority, such officers shall have no voting rights. Each of such officers shall serve for a period of one year and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
(e)
Three members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all of the rights and perform all of the duties of the authority.
Sec. 3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
Authority means the City of Johns Creek Public Buildings and Facilities Authority created by this Act.
(2)
City means the City of Johns Creek.
(3)
Costs of the project means and embraces the cost of construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired; the cost of all machinery and equipment; financing charges; interest prior to and during construction and for six months after completion of construction; the cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal agents and legal expenses, plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incidental to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; administrative expenses and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized; working capital; and all other costs necessary to acquire, construct, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and maintain the project.
(4)
Project means:
(A)
All buildings, facilities, and equipment necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of the City of Johns Creek, Georgia, or any department, agency, division, or commission thereof; and
(B)
Any undertaking permitted by the Revenue Bond Law.
(5)
Revenue Bond Law means the Revenue Bond Law of the State of Georgia (codified at Section 36-82-62 [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-62] et seq. of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended), or any other similar law hereinafter enacted.
(6)
Revenue bonds means revenue bonds authorized to be issued pursuant to this Act.
(7)
Self-liquidating means any project which the revenues and earnings are to be derived by the authority therefrom, including, but not limited to, any contractual payments with governmental or private entities, and all properties used, leased, and sold in connection therewith, together with any grants, will be sufficient to pay the costs of operating, maintaining, and repairing the project and to pay the principal and interest on the revenue bonds or other obligations which may be issued for the purpose of paying the costs of the project.
Sec. 4. - Powers.
The authority shall have the power:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, gift, condemnation, or otherwise and to hold, operate, maintain, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes; providing, however, that prior to acquiring property by gift, any such gift shall be approved by the mayor;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property or rights or easements therein, or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority, the authority being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this Act, except from the funds provided under the authority of this Act, and in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action, or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned, and no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this Act upon which any lien or encumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money is to be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance;
(4)
To appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural, and construction experts, fiscal agents, and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(5)
To execute contracts, leases, installment sale agreements, and other agreements and instruments necessary or convenient in connection with the acquisition, construction, addition, extension, improvement, equipping, operation, or maintenance of a project; and any and all persons, firms and corporations, and the City of Johns Creek, Georgia, are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases, installment sale agreements, and other agreements or instruments with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable and as they are authorized by law;
(6)
To acquire, construct, add to, extend, improve, equip, hold, operate, maintain, lease, and dispose of projects;
(7)
To pay the costs of the project with the proceeds of revenue bonds or other obligations issued by the authority or from any grant or contribution from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof or from the state or any agency or instrumentality or other political subdivision thereof or from any other source whatsoever;
(8)
To accept loans, gifts, donations, or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may require;
(9)
To accept loans, gifts, donations, or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the state or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the state or such agency or instrumentality or political subdivision may require;
(10)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue revenue bonds, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(11)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, including the power to incur short-term debt and to approve, execute, and deliver appropriate evidence of any such indebtedness; and
(12)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act.
Sec. 5. - Revenue bonds[—Authorities, powers, duties, and liabilities].
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the authority created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue bonds of the authority for the purpose of paying all or any part of the costs of the project and for the purpose of refunding revenue bonds or other obligations previously issued. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund hereby provided for such payment. The revenue bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates per annum, payable at such time or times, shall mature at such time or times, not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution for the issuance of such revenue bonds.
Sec. 6. - Same—Form; denomination; registration; place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the revenue bonds and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the revenue bonds. The revenue bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine, and provision may be made for registration and exchangeability privileges. The authority shall fix the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereon.
Sec. 7. - Same—Signatures; seal.
All such revenue bonds shall bear the manual or facsimile signature of the chairperson or vice chairperson of the authority and the attesting manual or facsimile signature of the secretary, assistant secretary, or secretary-treasurer of the authority, and the official seal of the authority shall be impressed or imprinted thereon. Any coupons attached thereto shall bear the manual or facsimile signatures of the chairperson or vice chairperson and the secretary, assistant secretary, or secretary-treasurer of the authority. Any revenue bonds or coupons attached thereto may bear the manual or facsimile signature of such persons who, at the actual time of the execution of such revenue bonds or coupons, shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of issuance of such revenue bonds, such person may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office. In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any revenue bond or any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such revenue bond, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes, the same as if that person had remained in office until such delivery.
Sec. 8. - Same—Negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of this state. All revenue bonds, their transfer, and the income therefrom shall be exempt from all taxation within this state.
Sec. 9. - Same—Sale; price; proceeds.
The authority may sell revenue bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be in the best interest of the authority. The proceeds derived from the sale of revenue bonds shall be used solely for the purpose or purposes provided in the resolutions and proceedings authorizing the issuance of such revenue bonds.
Sec. 10. - Same—Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of any definitive revenue bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates, or temporary revenue bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive revenue bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
Sec. 11. - Same—Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may provide for the replacement of any revenue bonds or coupons which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
Sec. 12. - Same—Conditions precedent to issuance.
The authority shall adopt a resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds. In the resolution, the authority shall determine that the project financed with the proceeds of the revenue bonds is self-liquidating. Revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by this Act. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of its members.
Sec. 13. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the City of Johns Creek, Georgia, nor a pledge of the faith and credit of the city, but such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the fund provided for in this Act. The issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate the city to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatsoever for payment of such revenue bonds or to make any appropriation for their payment, and all such revenue bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, this Act shall not affect the ability of the authority and any political subdivision or municipality to enter into an intergovernmental contract pursuant to which the political subdivision or municipality agrees to pay amounts sufficient to pay operating charges and other costs of the authority or any project including, without limitation, the principal of and interest on revenue bonds in consideration for services or facilities of the authority.
Sec. 14. - Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the authority, any issuance of revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company inside or outside this state. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of the revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition and construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair, and insuring of the project, and the custody, safeguarding, and application of all moneys.
Sec. 15. - To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
In the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, the authority shall provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the revenue bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank, or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes thereof, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
Sec. 16. - Sinking fund.
The moneys received pursuant to an intergovernmental contract and the revenues, fees, tolls, charges, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such revenues, fees, tolls, fines, charges, and earnings were produced by a particular project for which revenue bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture may provide, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture into a sinking fund, which sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payment of:
(1)
The interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due;
(2)
The principal or purchase price of such revenue bonds as the same shall fall due;
(3)
Any premium upon such revenue bonds as the same shall fall due;
(4)
The purchase of such revenue bonds in the open market; and
(5)
The necessary charges of the paying agent for paying principal and interest.
The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be maintained as a trust account for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another.
Sec. 17. - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the revenue bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of this state, including specifically, but without limitation, the Revenue Bond Law, or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture to be performed by the authority or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, fines, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
Sec. 18. - Validation.
Revenue bonds and the security therefor shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Bond Law. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action the state; any institution, department, or other agency thereof; and any county, municipality, school district, or other political subdivision or authority of this state which has contracted with the authority for services or facilities relating to the project for which revenue bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated, and such defendant shall be required to show cause, if any exists, why such contract or contracts shall not be adjudicated as a part of the basis for the security for the payment of any such revenue bonds. The revenue bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such revenue bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the authority and all other defendants.
Sec. 19. - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
Sec. 20. - Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the revenue bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of the authority or its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such revenue bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such revenue bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the authority. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such revenue bonds and, upon the issuance of such revenue bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such revenue bonds.
Sec. 21. - Moneys received considered trust funds.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenue, income, fees, and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
Sec. 22. - Purpose of the authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provision of this Act, the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of providing buildings, facilities, equipment, and services for the citizens in the City of Johns Creek, Georgia.
Sec. 23. - Rates, charges, and revenues; use.
The authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix rates and to revise same from time to time and to collect revenues, tolls, fees, and charges for the services, facilities, and commodities furnished and, in anticipation of the collection of the revenues, to issue revenue bonds or other types of obligations as herein provided to finance, in whole or in part, the costs of the project, and to pledge to the punctual payment of said revenue bonds or other obligations all or any part of the revenues.
Sec. 24. - Rules, regulations, service policies, and procedures for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe or cause to be prescribed rules, regulations, service policies, and procedures for the operation of any project or projects constructed or acquired under the provisions of this Act. The authority may adopt bylaws.
Sec. 25. - Tort immunity.
To the extent permitted by law, the authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the City of Johns Creek, Georgia; and the officers, agents, and employees of the authority when in the performance of the work of the authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents, and employees of the City of Johns Creek, Georgia, when in the performance of their public duties or the work of the city.
Sec. 26. - Tax-exempt status of the authority.
The properties of the authority, both real and personal, are declared to be public properties used for the benefit and welfare of the people of this state and not for purposes of private or corporate benefit and income, and such properties and the authority shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of any municipality, county, or the state and any political subdivision thereof.
Sec. 27. - Effect on other governments.
This Act shall not and does not in any way take from the City of Johns Creek, Georgia, or any political subdivision or municipality the authority to own, operate, and maintain public facilities or to issue revenue bonds as provided by the Revenue Bond Law.
Sec. 28. - Liberal construction of Act.
This Act, being for the welfare of various political subdivisions and municipalities of this state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
Sec. 29. - Effective date.
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
Sec. 30. - Repeal.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
