ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATION, APPEAL, AND VIOLATIONS

Sec. 113-21. - Administration.
(1)
Administration of the development regulations.
a.
These development regulations shall be administered, interpreted, and enforced by the director of community development except where specifically noted otherwise. It is the intent of these regulations that the requirements provided in article XI and article XII shall be interpreted by the public works director and any modifications to these articles shall only be made with the approval of the public works director or other governing body authorized to approve waivers or variances to these regulations. All other ordinances or regulations referenced herein, such as the fire prevention and life safety codes, building and other technical codes, health, water, and sewer regulations, shall be administered by the directors of the departments responsible for such regulations, as established by the mayor and city council.
b.
Prior to the initiation of any application pursuant to these development regulations, the director is authorized to require the applicant to supply such information and documentation, and complete such applications and checklists, as deemed reasonably necessary to insure compliance with the terms and conditions of these development regulations.
(2)
Work in violation of regulations. In any case in which activities are undertaken in violation of these regulations, not in compliance with the provisions of a permit issued under the authorization of these regulations, or without authorization of a permit which would otherwise be required, the director is hereby authorized to suspend or invalidate such permits, order that all unauthorized or improper work be stopped, direct correction of deficiencies, issue citations/summonses to the city municipal court, or take any other legal or administrative action appropriate to the severity of the violation and degree of threat to the public health, safety, and welfare.
(3)
Regulations to be published. It shall be the duty and responsibility of the city clerk to maintain an accurate and up-to-date compilation of these development regulations and all amendments and pertinent attachments thereto and to publish said compilation and make it available to the public at a cost as established by the city council.
(4)
Modifications. Modification of the design standards set forth in these development regulations and defined in articles XI and XII may be authorized by the public works director, or article XIII by the director of community development, in specific cases when, in his/her opinion, undue hardship may result from strict compliance; provided any such determination shall be based fundamentally on the fact that unusual topographical or other exceptional conditions require such modification, or that the granting of the modification will not adversely affect the general public welfare or nullify the intent of these regulations. Any such modification granted by the director shall be made in writing to the applicant and also made a part of the department's records. Application for any modifications shall be filed in writing on a form provided by the department with necessary supporting documents with the director by the applicant and shall explain in detail the reasons and facts supporting the application. Any denial of administrative modification by the director shall be appealable pursuant to section 113-22 of these regulations.
(Ord. No. 2009-06-18, (3.1), 6-29-2009)
Sec. 113-22. - Appeals and variances to the regulations.
(1)
Appeals. All appeals shall be filed pursuant to article XXII of the city zoning ordinance.
(2)
Variance. Variance requests to the requirements of these regulations, or appeals of the director's decisions, shall be submitted on an application form as prescribed by the director, along with such fees as shall be established by the city council. The director shall coordinate the review of each variance request with all other affected city departments and shall summarize such comments or recommendations as may be received to the board of zoning appeals for action in their normal course of business.
(3)
Judicial review. Any person aggrieved by a decision or order of the city, after exhausting his administrative remedies, shall have the right to appeal by application for writ of certiorari to superior court. Any appeal of a decision of the city shall be made within 30 calendar days of the date of the decision.
(Ord. No. 2009-06-18, (3.2), 6-29-2009)
Sec. 113-23. - Violations and enforcement.
Any action or inaction that violates the provisions of these regulations or the requirements of an approved plan or permit shall be subject to the enforcement actions or penalties outlined herein. Any such action or inaction that is continuous with respect to time is deemed to be a public nuisance and also may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of any of the enforcement actions or penalties described herein shall not prevent such equitable relief.
(1)
Enforcement procedures. The following are the enforcement procedures authorized by this chapter:
a.
Notices of violation enforcement.
1.
Enforcement actions may begin with the issuance of a written notice of violation to the owner or responsible person by the director. The notice may be delivered personally, sent by first class mail, or posted onsite. The notice of violation shall contain at least the following information:
i.
The name and address of the owner or responsible person;
ii.
The location or address of the site upon which the violation is occurring;
iii.
A description of the nature of the violation;
iv.
A description of the remedial actions or measures necessary to bring an action or inaction into compliance with a permit, approved plan or these regulations;
v.
The deadline or completion date of any such remedial actions or measures; and
vi.
A statement of the penalty or penalties that maybe assessed against the owner or responsible person to whom the notice of violation is directed.
2.
In the event the owner or responsible person fails to correct the violations after the deadline contained in the notice of violation. Nothing stated in this section shall limit the director's authorization to take or impose any one or more of the additional actions contained herein.
b.
Stop work orders. The director is authorized to issue stop work orders to an owner or responsible person. Stop work orders are effective immediately and shall remain in effect until the necessary corrective actions or remedial measures as set forth in the notice of violation have occurred. stop work orders may be withdrawn or modified by the director in order to enable an owner or responsible person to take necessary remedial actions or measures to correct the violations. When it is deemed necessary for the protection of the safety, health or welfare of the general public an immediate stop work order may be issued without the issuance of a notice of violation. In such cases the stop work order shall define the necessary corrective actions or remedial measures as would have been provided in the notice of violation.
c.
Refusal to issue certificates of occupancy or completion. The director is authorized to refuse to issue certificates of occupancy or completion for the building or other improvements constructed or being constructed on a site until the owner or responsible person has taken the remedial actions or measures as set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise corrected the violations described therein.
d.
Suspension, revocation, or modification of permit. The director is authorized to suspend, revoke or modify a permit that was issued authorizing land disturbing activities or development. The director is authorized to reinstate a suspended, revoked or modified permit after the owner or responsible person has taken the remedial actions or measures stated in the notice of violation or have otherwise corrected the violations described therein. The director is also authorized to reinstate such permit, which may include conditions as the director may deem necessary, to enable the owner or responsible person to take the necessary remedial actions or measures to correct the violations.
e.
Refusal to approve final subdivision plats. The director is authorized to refuse to approve final plats until the owner or responsible person has taken the remedial actions or measures set forth in the notice of violation or have otherwise corrected the violations described therein.
f.
Issuance of citations or summons to court. The director is authorized to issue a citation or summons to the owner or responsible person for violating any provision of these regulations, requiring such person to appear in the city municipal court.
(Ord. No. 2009-06-18, (3.3), 6-29-2009)
Secs. 113-24—113-40. - Reserved.
