ARTICLE V. - DEDICATION AND TRANSFER OF LANDS

Sec. 113-51. - Dedication of public lands and facilities.
No land dedicated as a public street or other public purpose shall be opened or accepted as a public street or for any other public purpose, and no subdivision of land shall be made, nor subdivision plat, nor part thereof, shall be recorded before obtaining final approval from the city community development department. Said approval shall be entered in writing on the final plat by the director. The director is hereby authorized to accept such dedications of lands and public facilities on behalf of the city and to cause such dedications to be recorded by the clerk of the county superior court, subject to ratification by the city council.
(Ord. No. 2009-06-18, (5.1), 6-29-2009)
Sec. 113-52. - Transfer of land ownership.
(1)
The city shall not recognize any transfer of title to land in the city by any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, developer, sub-divider or any other owner or agent and no building permit may be issued on said land, unless legal access to said land is provided to a public or private street approved under the terms of these regulations; and any of the following conditions are met:
a.
Said land existed as a single parcel of ownership, recorded as such in its entirety and present boundaries with the clerk of the county superior court prior to December 19, 2006 and at the time of recording was in compliance with the zoning and/or subdivision regulations in effect at that time;
b.
Said land is shown in its entirety and present boundaries on a final plat as approved (under these or any previous applicable regulations) and duly recorded with the clerk of the county superior court;
c.
Said land is shown in its entirety and present boundaries on a plat authorized by the director and recorded with the clerk of the county superior court pursuant to the regulations governing subdivision exemptions contained herein; or
d.
Said land is an aggregation of properties for land assembly purposes, and no building permit will be requested prior to the filing of an application for an issuance of a land disturbance permit, pursuant to these regulations.
(2)
No person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, developer, sub-divider or any other owner or agent shall transfer title to any property by reference to, exhibition of, or any other use of any map of plat illustrating the subdivision of land without a final plat of said land showing said property first having been duly approved under the procedures of these regulations or any previously applicable regulations and recorded with the clerk to the county superior court.
(3)
The divisions of property by court order, including but not limited to judgments of foreclosure or consolidation and disbursement of existing lots by deed or other recorded instruments, shall not be considered a subdivision for purposes of, and shall not obviate the necessity for compliance with, these regulations.
(Ord. No. 2009-06-18, (5.2), 6-29-2009)
Secs. 113-53—113-60. - Reserved.
