ARTICLE VII. - PAWNBROKERS[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
State Law reference— Pawnbrokers, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-130 et seq.

Sec. 18-276. - Penalty for violation of article.
Violation of any of the provisions of the article shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1987, § 9-3-13)
Sec. 18-277. - Recordkeeping; information to be shown upon request of police.
All pawnbrokers shall keep books wherein shall be entered an accurate description of all property pledged or sold to them. Such description shall include the name of the maker of the article, any identifying mark or number and a statement of the kind of material of which it is made. In such books there shall be entered also the name of the person by whom the property was deposited or sold, and the time when the transaction was done. These entries shall be made as soon after the transaction as is possible, in no event more than one hour thereafter. Such books and the articles themselves, so pledged or sold, shall at all times be subject to inspection and examination by the police. Any person engaged in the business of pawnbroker, who shall fail or refuse to keep books as provided in this section, or who shall make false entries concerning the transactions named, or who shall fail or refuse to permit an inspection and examination by any police officer of the books and of the property pledged with or sold to them shall be guilty of an offense and punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1987, § 9-3-1)
Sec. 18-278. - Daily report to police.
Every pawnbroker shall make a daily report in writing to the police department, of all property pledged to or bought by him during the 24 hours ending at 8:00 p.m. on the date of the report. Such reports shall be typewritten. They shall show: The name and address of the pawnbroker; time of transaction; serial number of pawn tickets; amount paid or advanced; full description of articles, including kind, style, material, color, design, kind and number of stones in jewelry and all identifying names, marks and numbers; and a description of persons selling or pawning, including name, address, color, weight and height. In addition, pawnbrokers shall make daily reports of all typewriters, adding machines and radios coming into and going out of their places of business.
(Code 1987, § 9-3-2)
Sec. 18-279. - Purchased articles not to be disposed of for 15 days after acquisition.
Any pawnbroker or person operating under a pawnbroker's license who purchases goods other than those purchased through wholesalers or on order in the normal course of business as defined by written rules and regulations of the police department, taking full title thereto, the word "goods" being here used in the broadest sense and including all kinds of personal property, shall hold such goods purchased for at least 15 days before disposing of same by sale, transfer, shipment or otherwise.
(Code 1987, § 9-3-3)
Sec. 18-280. - Dealing with minors.
It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker, his agents or employees, to receive in pawn, from minors, goods of any character or description. Any pawnbroker taking from an applicant a statement in writing that such applicant is of age will not be deemed to have violated this section if the appearance of such applicant as to age and size is such to make it uncertain that he is not 18 years of age.
(Code 1987, § 9-3-4)
Sec. 18-281. - Pawned articles not to be disposed of for 30 days.
Any pawnbroker or person operating as a pawnbroker under a pawnbroker's license who takes goods on pawn, the word "goods" being here used in the broadest sense and including all kinds of personal property, shall hold such goods pawned for at least 30 days, unless redeemed by the owner, before disposing of such goods by sale, transfer, shipment or otherwise.
(Code 1987, § 9-3-5)
Sec. 18-282. - Articles that have had serial number removed or have no serial number shall not be accepted.
No pawnbroker shall accept any article; such as, but not limited to, radios, typewriters, televisions and stereos, which have had the serial number removed from the article or which the pawnbroker knows should have a serial number upon it.
(Code 1987, § 9-3-6)
Sec. 18-283. - Identification required from purchaser of articles.
When a pawnbroker or person operating under a pawnbroker's license sells property which he acquired from pawn or which he purchased, he shall maintain a record of an accurate description of the property as it appeared on the original pawn ticket or purchase ticket. The record shall also include the name and address of the buyer, signature of the buyer, date of the transaction, and the amount paid for the property.
(Code 1987, § 9-3-7)
Sec. 18-284. - Compliance with article provisions.
No article will be accepted unless the provisions of section 18-277 are followed. No pawnbroker will take goods or buy goods, taking full title thereto, without entering the goods on his books as provided for in section 18-277.
(Code 1987, § 9-3-8)
Sec. 18-285. - Records maintained for four years.
The record of each pawn or purchase transaction, as provided in this article, shall be maintained for a period of not less than four years.
(Code 1987, § 9-3-9)
Sec. 18-286. - Penalties relating to records of pawnbrokers.
Any pawnbroker, and any clerk, agent or employee of such pawnbroker, who shall:
(1)
Fail to make any entry of any material matter in his permanent record book;
(2)
Make any false entry therein;
(3)
Falsify, obliterate, write so that information is unreadable, destroy or remove from his place of business such permanent record book;
(4)
Refuse to allow any duly authorized law enforcement officer to inspect such permanent record book, or any goods in his possession, during the ordinary hours of business or any reasonable time; or
(5)
Fail to maintain a record of each pawn or purchase transaction for at least four years,
shall be guilty of an offense.
(Code 1987, § 9-3-10)
Sec. 18-287. - Fingerprint required.
All pawnbrokers will require any person from whom he accepts goods on pawn or from whom he purchases goods to place the fingerprint of his right index finger in ink on the back of the copy of the pawn ticket which is to be sent to the police department.
(Code 1987, § 9-3-11)
Sec. 18-288. - Standard form required.
All pawnbroker's licenses will use a standard form for pawn and purchase tickets. The design for the form will be provided by the police department. Each pawnbroker will be required to purchase the standard tickets from his own source of supply and at his own expense.
(Code 1987, § 9-3-12)
Sec. 18-289. - Revocation of business license upon conviction.
Any pawnbroker or person operating under a pawnbroker's license or whose clerk, agent or employee shall be convicted for a total of two violations of any of these sections in any one calendar year shall have his business license to operate a pawnshop or as a pawnbroker suspended by the administration and upon recommendation or direction, after a hearing, may be revoked by the city council.
(Code 1987, § 9-3-14)
Sec. 18-290. - Licensing considerations.
(a)
No further licenses for the business of pawnbrokers shall be issued when the total number of such licenses issued and in effect would number more than one for each 1,000 persons residing in the city. It is the intent of this section to require a population of 1,000 persons for each license issued. An example follows:
(1)
Population equals 1,000, then one license may be issued;
(2)
Population equals 1,001, then one license may be issued.
(b)
If a licensee shall go out of business or if a license is revoked and the number of such licenses in effect shall continue to exceed the limit prescribed in this section, such license may not be reinstated. The population shall be determined by the latest relevant decennial census.
(Ord. of 9-9-1991)
Secs. 18-291—18-320. - Reserved.
