Sec. 86-127. - Other residential care facilities.
modified
Group home for the disabled means any dwelling unit designed for single-family occupancy and occupied by no more than eight disabled individuals. Group homes do not include boarding houses, halfway houses, homeless shelters or similar occupancy, nor shall the term include occupancy by any releases of any penal institution or place for persons convicted of a crime, persons found to be juvenile delinquents or juveniles found to be persons in need of supervision. In addition to disabled individuals, up to two additional occupants acting as house parents or guardians may reside in a group home.
Group homes may be permitted as a conditional use in an R-2 and R-4 district, subject to the following conditions:
(1)
No additional parking beyond the existing driveway and garage areas shall be permitted on the property where the group home is located, and vehicles may only be parked in such areas. Should additional parking be required, the operator of the group home may apply for an administrative variance from the city manager; any increase in pavement shall be confined to the rear of the lot.
(2)
The operator of the group home shall provide the Jonesboro Police Department and Clayton County Fire Department with a current list of residents living in the facility who have disabilities, and information concerning special needs, to ensure each resident's well-being and safe evacuation from the premises in the event of a fire or similar emergency.
(3)
Any modifications to the existing structure shall not increase the square footage of the structure.
(4)
Any exterior modifications to the existing structure shall be consistent with the residential character of the surrounding neighborhood.
(5)
A group home shall not be established within 1,500 feet of an existing group home.
(6)
The group home shall not require occupancy of individual bedrooms by more than two individuals.
(7)
Group homes shall comply with all fire and life safety codes, and obtain all federal and state permits or licenses, as appropriate.
(8)
The existing structure shall be upgraded and inspected by the city with respect to accommodation and accessibility by disabled individuals.
(Ord. No. 2019-003 , ยง 1, 2-11-2019; Ord. No. 2019-011 , ยง 1, 6-3-2019; Ord. No. 2021-014 , ยง 1(Exh. A), 6-14-2021)
