ARTICLE V. - SUSPENSION, REVOCATION AND PROBATION OF LICENSES; DUE PROCESS; HEARING

Sec. 6-131. - Grounds for suspension or revocation; notice; hearing; bond for reinstatement.
(a)
Any license which has been issued or which may hereafter be issued by the city may be suspended or revoked for the cause as hereinafter defined. "Due cause," for purposes of this section shall include, but not be limited to;
(1)
Arrest or conviction (to include a plea of nolo contendere) by local, state or federal authorities of the licensee, license representative or any employees of the licensee for any felony, or any misdemeanor, or any law, regulation or ordinance involving beverage alcohol, drugs, gambling, or tax law violations;
(2)
Citations issued by local, state or federal authorities to the licensee, license representative or any employees of the licensee for violations of any part of this chapter or any regulation pertaining to state of federal licensing of the possession, sale or distribution ofbeverage alcohol;
(3)
Material falsification of any fact given in application for a license issued under this article or bearing upon the licensee's qualification therefore; any act which may be construed as a subterfuge in an effort to circumvent any of the qualifications for a license under this article shall be deemed a violation of the requirement attempted to be circumvented;
(4)
The licensed business fails to properly account for, file, report and maintain any records or remit of pay any renewal license fee imposed, sales taxes, or excise taxes required under the city ordinances;
(5)
Any other factors known to the licensing authority whereby it is objectively shown the licensee, by reason of business experience, financial standing, trade association, personal association, record of arrests, or reputation in any community in which he has resided, is not likely to maintain the operation for which he is licensed in conformity with federal, state or local laws.
With respect to this section, it shall be rebuttably presumed that the violating act was done with the knowledge or consent of the licensee; provided, however, that such presumption may be rebutted only by evidence which precludes every other reasonable hypothesis save that such license did not know, assist or aide in such occurrence, or in the exercise of full diligence could not have discovered or prevented such activity.
(b)
Action to suspend or revoke a license shall be commenced by the city clerk or his designee by giving written notice to the licensee, either by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service upon licensee or his agent at the licensed location, stating the grounds therefore, and the date, time and place such matter will be heard. Notice shall be served at least seven calendar days prior to the date of the hearing. Included in the notice shall be an advisement of the licensee's right to be heard. Any licensee requiring subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses or documents at the hearing shall file a written request with the city clerk or his designee prior to the hearing. Hearings may be continued for good cause only.
(c)
Hearings shall only be as formal as necessary to preserve order and shall be compatible with the principles of justice. The city attorney or his designee may present the city's case and bear the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that due cause exists to suspend or revoke the license. The licensee may be represented by legal counsel, may confront and cross-examine witnesses, and shall have the right to call witnesses and present evidence in his behalf: A hearing record shall be maintained by the city; however, either party may arrange transcription by a court reporter at his sole expense. Hearings shall be presided over by the city clerk or his designee who shall preserve order. The city clerk shall rule upon all matter of evidence. Irrelevant, immaterial and unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded.
(d)
After hearing any evidence presented,the city clerk or his designee shall either take no action,suspend, or revoke the license. All final decisions to suspend or revoke a license shall be made by the city clerk or his designee, in writing, with the reasons therefore stated. Written notice of a final decision shall be given to the licensee within ten calendar days of conclusion of said hearing. No license shall be suspended or revoked unless there is due cause as defined in this section.
(e)
The city clerk or his designee shall not be required to strictly adhere to the progressive penalties in the penalty schedule and is authorized to invoke a more or less severe penalty based on the circumstances of the violation to include the forwarding of the violation directly to the mayor and city council for an administrative hearing.
Penalty Schedule—State Violations
EXPAND
(1) First violation 30 days suspension
(2) Second violation 60 days suspension
(3) Third violation Revoke license
  Penalty Schedule—City Ordinance Violations that are not also Violations of State Law
EXPAND
(1) First violation Six months probation
(2) Second violation Seven-day suspension of license and one year probation
(3) Third violation Revoke license
  (f)
Upon the second suspension or revocation of a license within any five-year period, as a prerequisite or reinstatement or reissuance of the license, the licensee, in addition to the requisite fees assessed under this article, shall post a surety bond, payable to the city, in the amount of $5,000.00, conditioned upon the licensee maintaining the operation for which he is licensed in conformity with all federal, state and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. Upon any subsequent act giving due cause for suspension or revocation of the license, the bond shall be forfeited and license revoked.
(Ord. No. 2015-006, § 1(Exh. A), 8-10-2015)
Sec. 6-132. - Appeal from decision of city clerk.
A licensee may appeal within ten calendar days the action by the city clerk or his designee to the mayor and city council and request a public hearing on the decision. Such hearing shall be held within 30 calendar days following receipt of a written request for a hearing from the licensee. Upon receipt of an appeal requesting a public hearing, the city clerk or his designee shall delay the enforcement of the penalty pending the outcome of the public hearing.
(Ord. No. 2015-006, § 1(Exh. A), 8-10-2015)
Sec. 6-133. - Hearing to be conducted by mayor and city council.
(a)
The mayor and city council are authorized to conduct all hearing relating to violations of city, county or state laws regulating the sale or use of alcoholic beverages and any regulations issued pursuant thereto. The licensee should be prepared to prove or show evidence of all business practices and procedures instituted to ensure compliance with this chapter and state law. The council inquiry shall include but not limited to:
(1)
Employment standards of the licensee.
(2)
Employee direction/supervision.
(3)
Enforcement check reports.
(4)
Previous violations.
(b)
The mayor and city council are authorized to affirm, reduce, increase or reverse the penalty applied by the city clerk or his designee.
(Ord. No. 2015-006, § 1(Exh. A), 8-10-2015)
Sec. 6-134. - Appeal from final decision of mayor and council.
Should the licensee desire to appeal the decision of mayor and council regarding the licensee's violation, the licensee may appeal said decision to the Superior Court of Clayton County by filing a petition for writ of certiorari with said Superior Court in accordance with state law.
(Ord. No. 2015-006, § 1(Exh. A), 8-10-2015; Ord. No. 2019-014A , § 5, 12-9-2019)
Secs. 6-135—6-150. - Reserved.
