Chapter 78 - UTILITIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; buildings and building regulations, ch. 16; self-inspection of sewer lines by plumbers and utility contractors, § 16-1; businesses, ch. 18; environment, ch. 34; historical preservation, ch. 42; discharging sewage and other polluted waste into natural outlets, § 46-3; insanitary deposits of excrement, garbage and other objectionable waste, § 46-18; planning, ch. 50; solid waste, ch. 54; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 58; subdivisions, ch. 62; telecommunications, ch. 70.
State Law reference— Water resources, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-1 et seq.; waterwell standards, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-120 et seq.; dumping certain wastes in storm or sanitary sewers prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-2; power of municipality to grant franchises or make contracts with public utilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7); authority to acquire, construct, extend, operate, maintain and collect fees for water and sewerage systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5; limitation on action expanding the power of regulation over any business activity regulated by the public service commission, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(5); adoption of ordinances, rules and regulations relating to payment for street improvements and construction of water, gas and sewer connections, payment of costs of connections, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-7; grants of state funds to municipal corporations for public purposes, O.C.G.A. § 36-40-20 et seq.; authority to provide for the development storage and distribution of water, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(7); authority to provide sewage collection and disposal systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(6).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 78-1. - Wells not in use.
It shall be unlawful for any property owner or tenant in possession of property to maintain or cause to be maintained any well that is not in use. Any such well shall be filled up to the level of the surface surrounding it.
(Code 1987, § 6-1-5)
State Law reference— Abatement of abandoned wells or holes, O.C.G.A. § 44-1-14.
Sec. 78-2. - Compulsory sewer connections.
Every residence, house or business establishment in the city is hereby required to connect and tap-in to the public sewer system when a sewer line is available on the street which fronts or is contiguous to the property on which the structure is erected or when a sewer line is located within 300 feet of the structure.
(Code 1987, § 6-1-11)
Secs. 78-3—78-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STORMWATER MANAGEMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Soil erosion and sedimentation control, § 34-31 et seq.; obstructing drainage, § 46-2.
State Law reference— Authority to provide stormwater, sewerage collection and disposal systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(6).

Sec. 78-36. - Authority of article.
The authority for this article is based on home rule provisions of the Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III.
(Ord. of 6-12-1995, § 1(8-8-1))
Sec. 78-37. - Findings.
Recent federal regulations (1987 Clean Water Act Amendments) require maintenance and management of municipal separate storm sewer systems and discharges.
(Ord. of 6-12-1995, § 1(8-8-2))
Sec. 78-38. - Objectives of article.
It is the objective of this article to comply with state and federal stormwater regulations developed pursuant to the Clean Water Act.
(Ord. of 6-12-1995, § 1(8-8-3))
Sec. 78-39. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Accidental discharge means a discharge prohibited by this article into the city separate storm sewer system which occurs by chance and without planning or consideration prior to occurrence.
City separate storm sewer system means a conveyance or system of conveyances which is located within city owned rights-of-way and designed and used only for collecting or conveying stormwater runoff or other approved surface water discharges.
Clean Water Act means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 USC 1251 et seq.).
Conveyance means stormwater features designed for the movement of stormwater through the drainage system, such as concrete or metal pipes, ditches, depressions, swales, catchbasins, curbs, gutters, storm drains, etc.
Development activity means manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations or permanent storage of materials or equipment.
Discharge means the release of treated or untreated stormwater runoff or other material to the city separate storm sewer system.
Drainage system means a conveyance or system of conveyances designed and used for collecting or conveying stormwater runoff.
Hazardous material means a flammable, highly corrosive, acidic or toxic material as identified in O.C.G.A. § 12-14-1 in the "Oil and Hazardous Materials Spill Reporting" requirements.
Illicit discharge means a discharge to the city separate storm sewer system that is not composed entirely of stormwater runoff except discharges pursuant to a NPDES permit (other than the NPDES permit for discharges from the city separate storm sewer system).
Maximum extent practicable means best management practices, control techniques, system design or engineering methods and any other provisions which can be economically and reasonably implemented to reduce the discharge of pollutants to the city separate storm sewer system.
Person means any and all persons, natural or artificial, and includes any individual, firm, corporation, government agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association, two or more persons having a joint or common interest, or any other legal entity.
Pollution means the contamination or other significant alteration of any water's physical, chemical or biological properties, including change in temperature, taste, color, turbidity or odor of such waters or the discharge of any liquid, gaseous, solid, radioactive or other substance into any such waters as will or is likely to render such waters harmful, detrimental or injurious to the public health, safety or welfare or to domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational or other legitimate beneficial uses, or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or other aquatic life.
Private means property or facilities owned by individuals, corporations and other organizations and not by city, county, state or federal government.
Stormwater management means the collection, conveyance, storage, treatment and disposal of stormwater runoff.
Stormwater management facility means constructed or natural components of a stormwater drainage system, designed to perform a particular function, or multiple functions including, but not limited to, pipes, swales, ditches, culverts, street gutters, detention basins, retention basins, constructed wetlands, infiltration devices, catchbasins, oil/water separators, sediment basins, natural systems and modular pavement.
Stormwater runoff means the direct response of a land surface to precipitation and includes the surface and subsurface runoff, that enters a stormwater conveyance system or other concentrated flow during and following a precipitation event.
Water quality means those characteristics of stormwater runoff that relate to the physical, chemical, biological or radiological integrity of water.
(Ord. of 6-12-1995, § 1(8-8-4))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 78-40. - Application of article provisions; implementation; scope.
(a)
The provisions of this article shall apply throughout the city.
(b)
The director of the county transportation and development department or his designee shall assist the city with the implementation of the provisions of this article by providing technical assistance, plan review and inspection services upon written request by the city's designated representative.
(c)
This article is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. This article shall control where ordinances actually conflict. However, if another chapter or statute requires further or more stringent action, this article does not conflict. All persons must take necessary actions to meet other statutes and ordinances not in conflict with this article.
(Ord. of 6-12-1995, § 1(8-8-5))
Sec. 78-41. - Penalties for violation of article.
(a)
Upon determination that a violation of this article has occurred, the violator shall receive notice of such violation. This notice shall specify the nature and evidence of violation and the amount of time in which to correct deficiencies.
(b)
A violation of this article, including any noncompliance for correction or alleviation of violations specified in the city's first notice within the specified time for the alleviation in the notice, shall constitute an offense. In the absence of a time specified for the corrections or alleviation in the first notice, all violations must be corrected or alleviated as specified in the first notice within 30 days from the date of such notice. Failure to comply shall also constitute a separate offense. The maximum penalty and punishment for any single violation of this article may not exceed a fine of $200.00 or imprisonment in the city jail for 60 days, or both. Each day the noncompliance or violation is not corrected constitutes a separate violation. The city may institute appropriate action or proceedings at law or equity for the enforcement of this article or to correct violations of this article. Any court of competent jurisdiction may have the right to issue restraining orders, temporary or permanent injunctions and other appropriate forms of remedy or relief. Each day of noncompliance is considered a separate offense. Nothing in this section contained shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation, including application for injunctive relief.
(c)
Upon notice from the city, work on any project that is being done contrary to the provisions of this article or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, shall be immediately stopped. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, his authorized agent, the persons in charge of the activity on the property, and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed. Where an emergency exists, no written notice shall be required.
(Ord. of 6-12-1995, § 1(8-8-10))
Sec. 78-42. - Minimum requirements to reduce pollutant discharges to the city's separate storm sewer system from areas of new developments.
(a)
Application for a clearing or grading permit shall be made to the city on forms furnished by it prior to commencing any development activities which direct stormwater runoff or other discharges to the city separate storm sewer system. Such application may require plans prepared by a registered professional engineer or other qualified professional, to be submitted in triplicate, drawn to scale, showing the nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the development vicinity; existing and proposed structures; existing and proposed drainage systems; and proposed activities on the site. Specifically, the following information is required:
(1)
A plan to reduce, to the maximum extent practicable, the discharge of pollutants to the city separate storm sewer system from areas of new development. Plans may include, but are not limited to, structural and source control measures to reduce pollutants in stormwater runoff, management practices or other appropriate provisions.
(2)
Plans shall also address controls to reduce pollutants in discharges to the city separate storm sewer system after construction is completed.
(3)
A plan to ensure that the postdeveloped peak stormwater runoff rate is no greater than the predeveloped peak stormwater runoff rate and minimize downstream erosion and property damage. This requirement may be waived if appropriate information is submitted that documents downstream impacts are not significant.
(b)
The following activities are exempt from obtaining a development permit unless such activities are identified as possible pollutant sources and provided that this exemption shall not relieve such activities from complying with the remaining provisions of this article:
(1)
Surface mining, as the same is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-4-72;
(2)
Granite quarrying and land clearing for such quarrying;
(3)
Minor land disturbing activities such as home gardens and individual home landscaping, repairs, maintenance work and other related activities;
(4)
The construction of single-family residences, provided that construction of any such residence conforms to the minimum standards as set forth in section 34-39 and that such standards may be enforced by the issuing authority;
(5)
Agricultural activities;
(6)
Any project carried out under the technical supervision of the Soil Conservation Service of the United States Department of Agriculture;
(7)
Construction or maintenance projects, or both, undertaken or financed in whole or in part, or both, by the state department of transportation, the state highway authority, or the state tollway authority; or any road construction or maintenance project, or both, undertaken by any county or municipality; construction and maintenance, or either, by any water or sewerage authority established by the general assembly of the state; provided, however, that such projects shall conform to the minimum requirements set forth in section 34-39 and that such standards may be enforced by the issuing authority; and
(8)
Any land disturbing activities conducted by any electric membership corporation or municipal electric system or any public utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the public service commission.
(Ord. of 6-12-1995, § 1(8-8-6))
Sec. 78-43. - Prohibited discharges.
(a)
It is unlawful for any person to throw, drain, run or otherwise discharge to any component of the city separate storm sewer system, or to cause, permit or suffer to be thrown, drained, run or allow to seep or otherwise discharge into such system all matter of any nature excepting only such stormwater or surface water as authorized in this article. It shall be the responsibility of the discharger to provide to the city appropriate certifications that discharges to the city's separate storm sewer system meet the requirements of this article.
(b)
The following discharges may be exempted from provisions of subsection (a) of this section unless such discharges are identified as possible pollution sources:
(1)
Water line flushing performed by a government agency, diverted stream flows, rising groundwaters, and unpolluted groundwater infiltration;
(2)
Unpolluted pumped groundwater;
(3)
Discharges from potable water sources, foundation drains, air conditioning condensation, irrigation water, springs, water from crawl space pumps, footing drains, lawn watering, individual residential car washing, flows from riparian habitats and wetlands, and street wash water;
(4)
Discharges or flows from firefighting; and
(5)
Other unpolluted water.
(c)
In the event of an accidental discharge or an unavoidable loss to the city separate storm sewer system of any hazardous material, the person concerned shall notify the city fire department through the 911 system immediately after the event is discovered. If the material discharged is not considered a hazardous material but is other than unpolluted stormwater runoff, then it should be reported to the county transportation and development department as soon as practicable. Notification shall include the nature, quantity and time of occurrence of the discharge. The person concerned shall take immediate steps to stop the discharge and contain, treat or take other actions to minimize the effects of the discharge on the city separate storm sewer system. The person shall also take immediate steps to ensure no recurrence of the discharge. A written report describing the occurrence, its impact on water quality and the cleanup, shall be prepared by the person concerned and submitted within 15 days of the occurrence to the city fire department and the county transportation and development department.
(Ord. of 6-12-1995, § 1(8-8-7))
Sec. 78-44. - Illicit connections.
(a)
It is unlawful for any person to connect any pipe, open channel or any other conveyance system that discharges anything except stormwater runoff or other water based on the exemptions listed in section 78-42(b), to the city separate storm sewer system.
(b)
Connections to the separate storm sewer system which are in violation of this article must be disconnected. The owner of the property where the connection originates shall be responsible for redirecting such connections to an approved location.
(Ord. of 6-12-1995, § 1(8-8-8))
Sec. 78-45. - Maintenance and inspection.
(a)
Private storm sewer systems shall be operated and maintained by the property owner so as to prevent, to the maximum extent practicable, pollutant discharges to the city separate storm sewer system.
(b)
The city, through its designated employees and agents bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter, in accordance with state and federal law, all properties for regular inspections, periodic investigations, observation, measurement, enforcement, sampling and testing, in accordance with provisions of this article. The city shall duly notify the owner of such property or the representative on site, except in the case of an emergency.
(c)
Measurements, tests and analyses required of any discharger to the city separate storm sewer system shall be in accordance with 40 CFR 136, unless another method is approved by the city.
(Ord. of 6-12-1995, § 1(8-8-9))
Sec. 78-46. - Appeals.
(a)
Any person aggrieved by a notice issued by the city may appeal same by filing a written notice of appeal with the city clerk within seven days of the receipt of such decision. A notice of appeal shall state the specific reasons why the decision of the city is alleged to be in error.
(b)
All appeals shall be heard by the city council. The hearing shall be held within the next two meetings of the city council or on a date mutually agreed upon in writing by the appellant and the city council. The city council shall then make its findings within 30 days of the appeal hearing. The appellant shall not be relieved of his obligations during the appeal process.
(Ord. of 6-12-1995, § 1(8-8-11))
Sec. 78-47. - Property owner liability; supplemental charges.
Any person in violation of any portion of this article shall pay for all costs associated with the violation including, but not limited to, sampling, testing, containment, cleanup, injury, legal and other costs.
(Ord. of 6-12-1995, § 1(8-8-12))
