Chapter 48 - PARKS AND RECREATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 48-1—48-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RULES AND REGULATIONS

Sec. 48-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Department means the city department of public works, a department under the jurisdiction of the city council.
Facility means any building, structure, device, or property of the city used in any way for public purposes.
Park means all parks and all facilities located thereon, owned and/or controlled by the city, operated under the jurisdiction of the city.
Person means any individual, citizen, group, association, firm, corporation, or other legal entity who is authorized to use and enjoy the city's parks and any structure or facility located therein.
Playground means any facility owned, operated, or controlled by the city used for recreational activity.
Recreation center means any public facility used for amusement, play, recreational activity, or pleasure.
(Ord. of 6-12-2000, § 1(7-1-1))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 48-27. - Violations.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article may be barred or suspended by the department from using any or all parks, if, in the department's sole discretion, such action is necessary to protect a park, the facilities located therein, or the public's health, safety, or welfare.
(Ord. of 6-12-2000, § 1(7-1-3(e)))
Sec. 48-28. - Penalties.
Violations of this article shall be punishable as misdemeanor ordinance violations under the laws of the state in a court of appropriate jurisdiction. Violation of this article may be punished by 60 days in jail, a fine of $1,000.00, 40 hours of community service, or a combination of such penalties.
(Ord. of 6-12-2000, § 1(7-1-4))
Sec. 48-29. - Hours of operation.
All parks, playgrounds, and recreational facilities shall be open daily to the general public between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. unless the venue has posted hours otherwise. It shall be unlawful for any person other than city personnel conducting city business therein to come onto or be present in a park during any other hours. A park or section of a park may be closed to the public by the department at any time and for any length of time, either temporarily or at regular or stated intervals.
(Ord. of 6-12-2000, § 1(7-1-2(c)))
Sec. 48-30. - Prohibited acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person using parks, playgrounds, or facilities to either perform or permit to be performed any of the following acts:
(1)
Violate any of the laws or regulations of the state or the United States of America.
(2)
Endanger the safety of any person by any conduct or act as further described under sections 48-33—48-37.
(3)
Prevent any person from using a park, recreation center, or playground, or any of its facilities, or interfere with such use in contravention of the provisions of this article and rules applicable thereto.
(4)
Tease or entice any wild animal or disturb or damage any wild animal's nest or lair.
(5)
Dress or undress in a park, playground, or recreation center, or in any vehicle, toilet, or other place located within a park, playground or recreation center except in such bathing houses or structures as may be provided for such purposes.
(6)
Apply any chemical or fertilizer to any lawn, athletic field, soil, structure, or facility of a park, playground, or recreation center.
(7)
Introduce any plant material, seed, sod, tree, or shrub to any lawn, athletic field, forest or soil of a park, playground, or recreation center.
(8)
Bring a dangerous animal into a park, including any dangerous dog as designated by section 14-31 et seq., and under section 34-81 et seq.; permit a dog to be in a park unless such dog is on a leash of not more than six feet in length as set out here and in accordance with section 11-3-3 of the 1987 Code; bring any animal onto an athletic or sports field within a park; ride, graze, or walk a horse or other type of hoofed animal within a park without obtaining written authorization from the department, unless the park is specifically designated for such use; fail to immediately remove from the park and dispose in a sanitary manner excrement deposited by an animal in a person's possession and/or control while in a park.
(9)
Violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the department relative to the use of a park, playground, or recreation center.
(Ord. of 6-12-2000, § 1(7-1-2(b)))
Sec. 48-31. - Use of grounds and facilities.
Every person using a park, playground, or recreational center shall clean up all debris, extinguish all permitted fires, and leave the premises in good order and the facilities located thereon in a neat and sanitary condition.
(Ord. of 6-12-2000, § 1(7-1-2(a)))
Sec. 48-32. - Group activity.
Whenever more than 15 members of any group desire to use a park for a particular purpose, such as a picnic, party, sports event or theatrical or other entertainment performance, a representative of such group shall first obtain a permit from city hall for such purpose, unless, the group is sponsored by the department as one of the department's scheduled programs. City hall shall grant the application for a permit if it appears that the group will not interfere with the general use of the park by individual members of the public, and if the group meets all other reasonable conditions which may be imposed by the department in this article, and in department regulations not contrary to this article. A fee schedule for use of city parks is available at city hall. Such application may contain a requirement for an indemnity bond, and/or on-site security to protect the city from liability of any kind or character and to protect city property from damage.
(Ord. of 6-12-2000, § 1(7-1-2(d)))
Sec. 48-33. - Games.
It shall be unlawful for any person to endanger the general public in a park by taking part in or abetting the playing of any games involving thrown or otherwise propelled objects such as balls, stones, arrows, javelins, or model airplanes except in areas set apart for such forms of recreation. The playing of rough or potentially dangerous games such as football, baseball, and soccer is prohibited except on the fields, courts, or other facilities provided therefor. Park areas other than those designated as golf clubs or driving ranges may not be used for golf practice, driving ranges, or putting greens.
(Ord. of 6-12-2000, § 1(7-1-3(a)))
Sec. 48-34. - Picnic areas and use.
No person shall use any picnic area or any facility located in a park for the purpose of holding picnics or other activities to the exclusion of other persons unless such person has a city permit specifically granting such prescheduled use, nor shall any person use such area or facility for more than three hours of time if the area has more than 15 people.
(Ord. of 6-12-2000, § 1(7-1-2(e)))
Sec. 48-35. - Camping.
It shall be unlawful for any person to set up a tent, shack, or any other temporary shelter for the purpose of an overnight stay, or to leave in a park after closing hours any movable structure or vehicle to be used or that could be used for an overnight stay, such as a house-trailer, camp-trailer, wagon, or the like, unless authorized by the department by permit.
(Ord. of 6-12-2000, § 1(7-1-3(b)))
Sec. 48-36. - Swimming.
It shall be unlawful for any person to swim, bathe, or wade in any waters or waterways in or adjacent to a park except in such waters and at such locations as are designated therefor. Such swimming activity shall be in compliance with regulations pertaining thereto as set forth in this article or regulations adopted by the department which are not inconsistent with this article.
(Ord. of 6-12-2000, § 1(7-1-3(c)))
Sec. 48-37. - Boats and rafts.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use a boat or raft or other flotation device on any waterway, stream, lake, or pond in a park unless written authorization allowing the activity is received by the department.
(Ord. of 6-12-2000, § 1(7-1-3(d)))
