ARTICLE VI. - TAXATION OF PACKAGE SALES

Sec. 6-151. - Excise tax report; penalty for failure to file; payment.
(a)
In addition to the annual retail license fee required for the sale of alcoholic beverages, there is hereby levied and imposed upon all wholesale dealers selling malt beverages within the city a specific excise tax in the amount of $0.004166 per ounce on malt beverages sold by each wholesale dealer except when malt beverages are sold in individual containers with a capacity of 15½ gallons or more, the excise tax shall be $6.00 per 15½ gallon container, or if the container is larger than 15½ gallons, the tax shall be proportioned at the rate of $0.387 per each additional gallon or portion of a gallon capacity of the container. However, malt beverages which contain less than one-half of one percent alcohol by volume shall not be subject to any tax levied under this section.
(b)
An excise tax is hereby imposed on wine and distilled spirits sold within the limits of the city at the rate of $0.22 per liter, and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of a liter. However, the taxes imposed by this section shall not be levied with respect to:
(1)
Wine sold to, and used by, established and recognized churches and synagogues for use in sacramental services only.
(2)
Any sale of wine which is exempt from taxation by the state under the Constitution of the United States;
(3)
Wine sold to persons outside this state for resale or consumption outside this state; or
(4)
Wines which contain less than one-half of one percent alcohol by volume.
(c)
Each wholesale dealer selling malt beverages within the city limits shall file a report by the tenth day of each month showing for the preceding calendar month the exact quantities of malt beverages by size and type of container and the exact quantities of wine and distilled spirits, constituting a beginning and ending inventory for the month, sold within the incorporated city limits. Each wholesale dealer shall remit to the city on the tenth day for the month succeeding the calendar month in which such sales were made, the amount of excise tax due in accordance with the section. Reports shall include all sales to any retail dealer in the city, whether delivered to the retail dealer's place of business in the city or elsewhere for resale in the city.
(d)
The excise tax provided for in this section shall be in addition to any license fee, occupation tax or other charge which may now or in the future be imposed upon the business of selling malt beverages, distilled spirits or wines at retail or wholesale, within the city.
(e)
The failure to make a timely report and remittance shall render a wholesale dealer liable for a penalty of ten percent of the total amount due during the first 30-day period following the date such report and remittance were due and a further penalty of ten percent of the amount of such remittance for each successive 30-day period or any portion thereof, during which such report shall render the wholesale dealer making such report liable for a penalty equal to 50 percent of the amount of the remittance which would be required under an accurate and truthful report.
(Ord. No. 2015-006, § 1(Exh. A), 8-10-2015; Ord. No. 2019-014A , § 6, 12-9-2019)
Secs. 6-152—6-160. - Reserved.
