Chapter 6 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses and business regulations, ch. 22.
State Law reference— Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.; authority to adopt rules and regulations relating to manufacture, sale and distribution of distilled spirits, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-49; local license required for wholesale or retail sales of wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-40.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Beer means fermented beverages made in whole or in part from malt, or any similar fermented beverage, provided such fermented beverages shall not contain more than six percent of alcohol by volume.
Package store license means a license issued to a retail dealer for the sale of beer or wine, in sealed containers, for consumption off the premises, generally known as sale of beer or wine to go.
Pouring license means a license issued to a retail dealer for the sale of beer or wine for consumption on the premises of the retail dealer.
Retail dealer means any person selling beer or wine directly to the consumers.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 1.1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-4.
Sec. 6-2. - Use in business promotions prohibited.
No beer, wine or other alcoholic beverage shall be given away, sold or otherwise distributed as part of any business or product promotion, or grand opening of any such business. This prohibition shall apply to all businesses and individuals in the county, whether or not they are licensed to sell beer or wine.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 2.1)
Sec. 6-3. - Open containers.
(a)
As used in this Code section, the term:
(1)
Alcoholic beverage means:
a.
Beer, ale, porter, stout, and other similar fermented beverages, including sake or similar products, of any name or description containing one-half of one percent or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor;
b.
Wine of not less than one-half of one percent of alcohol by volume; or
c.
Distilled spirits which is that substance known as ethyl alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
(2)
Open alcoholic beverage container means any bottle, can, or other receptacle that:
a.
Contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
b.
(i)
Is open or has a broken seal; or
(ii)
Is otherwise ready for consumption; or
(iii)
The contents of which are partially removed.
(3)
Open container means any bottle, can, glass, cup or other vessel which contains an alcoholic beverage not in its original container. The term "open container" shall also mean the original container of an alcoholic beverage and which contains an alcoholic beverage on which the seal has been broken or which is otherwise ready for consumption.
(4)
Semipublic parking facility means any privately owned area wherein motor vehicles may be parked by the public in conjunction with any business, enterprise, commercial establishment, office building, church, school, or multiple-family residential building.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession any alcoholic beverage in an open container while on the public streets, roads, sidewalks, alleyways or rights-of-way, in any public or semipublic parking facility within Jones County, Georgia.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession any alcoholic beverage in an open container while at a private residence or curtilage held in private ownership, other than his or her own, other than by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession any alcoholic beverages in any open container while an occupant of any motor vehicle, whether such vehicle is underway or not, while such vehicle is on the public streets, sidewalks or rights-of-way, or in any public or semipublic parking facility within Jones County. An open container shall be considered to be in the possession of the operator of a vehicle if the container is not in the possession of a passenger or is not located in a locked glove compartment, locked trunk or other locked nonpassenger area of the vehicle.
(e)
This section shall not apply to facilities or events sanctioned or approved by the board of commissioners as facilities or events where alcohol may be served.
(f)
This section may be suspended for special events upon application to and approval by the board of commissioners.
(g)
Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-19.
(Ord. No. 2009-004, 1-5-2010)
Secs. 6-4—6-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BEER AND WINE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-31. - Sale to minors.
No licensee for the sale of beer or wine shall furnish or cause to be furnished or permit any person in his employ to furnish any beer or wine to any minor. The licensee shall be held responsible for any such sale made by his employees or others in the licensed business premises. The prohibition of this section includes the sale, gift or any other furnishing of beer or wine to minors, and minors are deemed to be persons under the age of 21 years as provided by state law.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 4.7)
Sec. 6-32. - Posting of notice to minors.
The holder of any license for the sale of beer or wine shall post in a conspicuous place in his place of business a notice with letters not less than four inches in height which shall be clearly visible to all customers entering the establishment as follows:
"Sale of Beer or Wine to Minors is Strictly Prohibited."
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 4.8)
Sec. 6-33. - Sale prohibited on Christmas Day.
No licensee under this article, nor any person in his employ, shall furnish or sell or offer to sell any beer or wine on Christmas Day.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 4.9(a))
Sec. 6-34. - Sales on election days.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20, the sale of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted on election days as the same are defined by state law; provided, however, that it shall nonetheless be unlawful for any person to sell alcoholic beverages within 250 feet of any polling place or of the outer edge of any building within which such polling place is established on primary or election days.
(b)
The provisions of subsection (a) of this section notwithstanding, no licensee who is licensed to sell beer or wine to be consumed on the premises or anyone in his employ shall furnish or sell or offer to sell any beer or wine on election days, defined as that period of time beginning one hour prior to the opening of the polls and ending one hour after the closing of the polls, during any primary, general or special election, and provided that this prohibition shall apply only within the territorial boundaries for which the election is being held; provided, further, that any licensee who is licensed to sell beer or wine to be consumed on the premises also holds a license to sell beer or wine packaged to go may sell beer or wine packaged to go on election days, subject to the provisions of subsection (a) of this section.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 4.9(b); Res. of 6-7-1988)
Sec. 6-35. - Hours of operation—Generally.
All such establishments shall be closed between the hours of 12:00 a.m., Sunday, until 7:00 a.m., Monday, with the following exception: If 75 percent of the gross sales of such establishment is derived from the sale of nonalcoholic merchandise, then such establishment may remain open on Sunday. The responsibility for keeping records which determine the percentage of gross sales shall lie upon the holders of the business license, and such records are subject to audit.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 3.4)
Sec. 6-36. - Sales hours.
Licensees may engage in the sale of beer and wine, subject to the following:
(1)
Pouring licensees. No holder of a pouring license shall engage in such sales between the hours of 12:00 midnight on Saturday night and 7:00 a.m. on the following Monday morning, nor between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day of the week.
(2)
Package store licensees. The holder of a package store license may engage in package sales on Sundays between the hours of 12:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m., but are otherwise prohibited from engaging in such sales between 12:00 midnight on Saturday night and 7:00 a.m. on the following Monday morning. Additionally, no holder of a package store license shall engage is such sales between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day of the week.
(3)
[Vacation of licensed premises.] No later than one hour after the applicable closing time, all patrons and customers of any business licensed with a pouring license for beer or wine shall vacate the premises and the doors to such establishment shall be closed and locked; provided that this requirement shall not apply to those licensed businesses operating only with a package store license. The licensee shall be responsible for complying with these requirements.
(Ord. No. 2013-002, 8-20-2013)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2013-002, adopted Aug. 20, 2013, amended § 6-36 by striking it in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof new material to read as herein set out. Former § 6-36 pertained to hours of operation—pouring licensees, and derived from a resolution of Nov. 3, 1987.
Sec. 6-37. - Knowledge of article provisions.
All holders of a license for the sale of beer and wine shall keep a copy of this article in his premises and instruct any person working there with respect to the terms in this article, and each licensee and each person selling wine or beer shall at all times be familiar with the terms of this article.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 4.11)
Sec. 6-38. - Compliance with applicable laws.
In addition to the rules and regulations set out in this article, each licensee doing business in the county shall comply with all state and federal laws, and the violation of any of such laws and these regulations shall subject the licensee to the immediate revocation of his license for the sale of beer or wine.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 5.2)
Secs. 6-39—6-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 6-61. - Required.
No beer or wine shall be sold legally in the county outside the limits of incorporated municipalities, without a license granted by the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 2.1)
Sec. 6-62. - Application required.
All applications for licenses for the sale of beer or wine shall be filed in person by the applicant at the office of the board of commissioners, and shall consist of completed forms furnished for application purposes by the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 2.2)
Sec. 6-63. - Completion of application.
All applications for licenses for the sale of beer or wine on the forms provided by the board of commissioners shall be completely and fully executed and each question on the application form shall be answered accurately. Failure of an applicant to furnish completed answers, as well as failure to comply with all other prerequisites as provided in this article shall be cause for denying the application with prejudice. The willful making of any false statement as to a material matter on any application for a license to sell beer or wine which shall be found to be false shall constitute grounds for denying such license or for revocation of any license issued.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 2.3)
Sec. 6-64. - Execution of application.
If the applicant for a license for the sale of beer or wine is an individual, he shall sign the application personally. If the applicant is a firm or partnership, each member or partner shall execute it. If the applicant is a corporation, it shall be executed by at least two officers of the corporation.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 2.4)
Sec. 6-65. - Reserved.
Editor's note— At the instruction of the city, § 6-65 was deleted from the Code. See letter and attachment of Oct. 8, 2004 which states "This updated copy repeals the Residency clause § 6-65 from the ordinance passed November 3, 1987. Approved this 15th day of May, 1990."
The applicant for a license for the sale of beer or wine under this division must be a resident of the county for at least one year prior to the application date.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 2.5)
Sec. 6-66. - Proximity to certain uses.
No application for any licenses to sell beer or wine shall be approved where the proposed location of the business is within 300 feet of a church, school, funeral home or cemetery. The distance prescribed in this section shall be measured in a straight line from the nearest corner of the building housing the business to the nearest corner of such church building or funeral home, or to the nearest corner of the school ground or cemetery grounds.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 3.1)
Sec. 6-67. - Grounds for denial.
In determining whether or not any application for a license for the sale of beer or wine under this division shall be granted, in addition to all other provisions of this chapter, the following shall be considered by the board of commissioners in the public interest and welfare and no application shall be approved when it is found that:
(1)
The applicant or any employee of the business is then afflicted with alcoholism or other clearly defined alcoholic beverage use problems, and no person known to the licensee to be so afflicted may at any time be employed by the licensee in the licensed business.
(2)
The applicant or any employee of the business has at any time previously had a beer, wine or alcoholic beverage license revoked at any location, whether in the county, or otherwise.
(3)
If it is found to be contrary to the public interest and welfare, no license shall be issued to any person convicted of a felony who served any part of a criminal sentence, including probation, within ten years immediately preceding the date of receipt of the application.
(4)
If it is found to be contrary to the public interest and welfare, no license shall be issued to any person convicted of a misdemeanor who served any part of a criminal sentence, including probation, within five years immediately preceding the date of receipt of the application.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 3.2; Ord. No. 2012-001, 9-18-2012)
Sec. 6-68. - Application approval.
After receipt of the application for a license for the sale of beer or wine under this division, and all other prerequisites set out in this chapter, the clerk shall consider the application, and if all criteria have been satisfied, shall present such application to the board of commissioners at their regularly scheduled monthly meeting for approval.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 3.3)
Sec. 6-69. - Payment of fees.
No license for the sale of beer or wine shall be issued under this division unless the applicant therefor shall have fully paid all license fees and ad valorem taxes due to the county.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 4.1)
Sec. 6-70. - Search of premises.
The acceptance by any licensee of any license for the sale of beer or wine issued under the authority of this division shall authorize the search, without warrant or other writ, by any police officer of the county, and by any operator, agent or officer of the state revenue commissioner, and by any operator, agent or officers of the alcohol control section of the United States of America, not only of the whole of the licensed location of such licensee, but also his dwelling house and the curtilage thereof.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 4.2)
Sec. 6-71. - Display.
Every license for the sale of beer or wine granted and issued under and by this division shall be permanently displayed on the interior wall of the licensed location by the licensee.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 4.3)
Sec. 6-72. - Transferability.
No license for the sale of beer or wine issued under this division shall be assignable or transferable. If a licensed business is moved, sold or closed or no longer directly operated by the licensee, the licensee shall immediately surrender his license to the clerk. All licenses shall be issued to specific persons and for a specific location.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 4.4)
Sec. 6-73. - License year; expiration.
All licenses for the sale of beer or wine shall be issued on a calendar year basis and shall expire, regardless of the date of issuance, on the last day of December of each year.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 4.5)
Sec. 6-74. - Fees, proration.
The fee for any license for the sale of beer or wine issued under this division shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk. The applicant for a license shall pay to the county, at the time his license is issued, the sum of the license fee for operation for one year beginning on the first day of January or one-half of this amount if the license is issued during the last three months of the license year.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 4.6)
Sec. 6-75. - Grounds for suspension or revocation.
The following shall be considered just cause for suspension or revocation of any license for the sale of beer or wine issued under this division:
(1)
The performance of any act prohibited by this division or the failure to perform any act required by this division, as well as the violations of any state, local, or federal law, particularly, but not limited to those involving alcoholic beverages, if such violation tends to indicate that the licensee will not maintain the operation of the business licensed in conformity with state, local, or federal laws. If such act, omission or violation is done by any agent, servant, employee, or officer of the licensee, the lack of knowledge on the part of the licensee or the lack of authorization for such act or omission or violation shall be no defense.
(2)
The entry of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, or the conviction of any licensee, partner, or any officer of a licensee corporation with respect to a charge or violation of any of the laws of the state or United States or any locality particularly but not limited to those involving alcoholic beverages, if such violation tends to indicate that the licensee will not maintain the operation of the business licensed in conformity with state, local, or federal laws.
(3)
The occurrence on three or more occasions within any 12-month period on the licensed premises of fights, disorderly conduct, drunkenness, breach of the peace, and other similar conduct whether the same be committed by the licensee or by customers or by others.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 5.1)
Sec. 6-76. - Surrender upon revocation.
If any license for the sale of beer or wine is temporarily revoked by any officer of the county, including the sheriff, such license shall be turned over to the board of commissioners' office immediately, and such licensee shall appear before the board of commissioners at a regular meeting for consideration of permanent revocation or reinstatement.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 5.3)
Sec. 6-77. - Waiting period upon suspension, revocation.
When a license has been suspended or revoked under the provisions of this division, no application for a new license for the same location will be received for a period of 12 months thereafter; and no application for a new license from the licensee involved shall be received for a period of 24 months.
(Res. of 11-3-1987, § 5.4)
