ARTICLE VIII. - PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 58.
State Law reference— Exemption from local licensing of disabled veterans and blind persons, O.C.G.A. § 43-12-1; Georgia Charitable Solicitations Act of 1988, O.C.G.A. § 43-17-1 et seq.; Transient Merchant Act of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.

Sec. 18-321. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Canvasser or solicitor means any individual, whether resident of the city or not, traveling either by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, taking or attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares and merchandise, personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he is collecting advance payments on such sales or not.
Peddler means any person, firm or corporation which makes house-to-house or personal calls displaying samples, model goods, wares or merchandise or taking orders for shipment directly from a manufacturer; excluding, however, any person, firm or corporation:
(1)
Which sells agricultural, forestry or other farm products grown and sold on its farm, orchard, dairy, poultry farm, garden or other similar facility; or
(2)
When the net proceeds of any such sale are to be used solely for charitable purposes.
Transient merchant means any person, firm or corporation which is not a regular retail or wholesale merchant with a permanent place of business in the city, but which does display samples, model goods, wares or merchandise in any lot, building, room or structure of any kind, whether fixed or mobile, or on any public right-of-way, for the purpose of the sale of or securing orders for the sale of such items or items of like kind or quality for immediate or future delivery; excluding, however:
(1)
Peddlers;
(2)
Any person, firm or corporation which conducts business at any industry or association trade show; or
(3)
Any person, firm or corporation which sells items at a yard, rummage, garage, antique or similar sale when such person, firm or corporation is a resident of the state or has a permanent place of business within the state and such sale is not a part of the regular business activity of such person, firm or corporation.
(Ord. of 9-14-1992, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-322. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1987, § 9-5-6)
Sec. 18-323. - Hours of operation.
No person shall engage in activity as a solicitor, peddler or canvasser within the city except between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday; provided, however, that calls may be made to private residences between 6:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. with the prior advance permission of the occupant of the residence. No sales or calls shall be made on Sunday.
(Code 1987, § 9-5-2)
Sec. 18-324. - Registration; photograph.
Every solicitor, peddler or canvasser engaged in the activities set out in section 18-321 shall be required to register with the chief of police and pay such daily registration fee as fixed from time to time by the city council. The solicitor, salesman, peddler or canvasser shall furnish a photograph of himself one inch in width and two inches in length.
(Code 1987, § 9-5-3)
Sec. 18-325. - Prohibited upon property where sign forbids.
No solicitor, peddler or canvasser shall go upon any residential property where the owner or person residing on the residential premises has posted a sign reading as follows: "No Solicitors."
(Code 1987, § 9-5-4)
Sec. 18-326. - Failure to leave premises upon request.
Any solicitor, peddler or canvasser upon being requested to leave the premises of any residence by the owner or person in charge of those premises who fails to do so shall be guilty of a violation of this article.
(Code 1987, § 9-5-5)
Sec. 18-327. - Transient merchants.
Transient merchants are prohibited within the city limits.
(Ord. of 9-14-1992, § 2)
Secs. 18-328—18-360. - Reserved.
