ARTICLE IV. - ZONING DISTRICTS

Sec. 86-71. - Relationship of zoning districts to the comprehensive plan.
The City of Jonesboro Comprehensive Plan and Future Land Use Map designate land uses for broad areas of the city. These designations serve as a general guide to land use and development intensity that are more precisely determined by the zoning districts of this section. The zoning ordinance and its application to individual properties implements public policy goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan and, together with the city's land development regulations, shape the character of development and use of property in Jonesboro. Land use designations are associated with actual zoning districts as identified in the table below.
Zoning Districts and Corresponding Land Uses
EXPAND
Zoning District Land Use
R-2 single family residential district Single family residential
R-4 single family residential district Single family residential
R-C cluster residential district Medium density residential
R-A single family attached residential Medium density residential
R-M multifamily residential district Multifamily residential
H-1 historic district Office/business; public/institution
H-2 historic district Office/residential
MX mixed use district Mixed use and office/residential
O-I office and institutional district Office/business; public/institution
C-1 neighborhood commercial district Commercial
C-2 highway commercial district Commercial
M-1 light industrial district Light industrial
Tara Boulevard Overlay Commercial
Assembly overlay Public/institution/commercial
Historic residential overlay Residential/commercial
  (Ord. No. 05-08, § 2(4.01), 8-15-05)
Sec. 86-72. - Establishment of districts.
The following zoning districts are established for the purpose of regulating land use and development intensity:
(1)
R-2 single family residential district;
(2)
R-4 single family residential district;
(3)
R-C cluster residential district;
(4)
R-A single family attached residential district;
(5)
R-M multifamily residential district;
(6)
H-1 historic district;
(7)
H-2 historic district;
(8)
MX mixed use district;
(9)
O-I office and institutional district;
(10)
C-1 neighborhood commercial district;
(11)
C-2 highway commercial district;
(12)
M-1 light industrial district;
(13)
Tara Boulevard Overlay;
(14)
Assembly Overlay;
(15)
Historic Residential Overlay.
(Ord. No. 05-08, § 2(4.02), 8-15-05)
Sec. 86-73. - Official zoning map adopted.
The land area of the City of Jonesboro, Georgia is hereby divided into zoning districts, as provided herein and as indicated on the official zoning map which, together with all explanatory notations, references and other information indicated thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be an integral part of this chapter. The zoning map, as adopted and as may be amended thereafter by mayor and city council from time to time, establishes the boundaries and location of all zoning districts in the city. The map is prepared by the geographic information services specialist, and is compiled from aerial photography, deed records, plats, and other imagery, data and public records. The primary public information sources should be consulted for verification of information contained on the map.
The official zoning map as adopted at the time of adoption of this zoning ordinance shall be identified as that map bearing the signature of the Mayor of Jonesboro serving at the time of adoption, and attested by the City Clerk of the City of Jonesboro, Georgia, and bear the seal of the city under the following words: "This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in this Section of Ordinance 05-08 of the City of Jonesboro, Georgia," together with the date of adoption of this ordinance. A certified copy of the official zoning map as originally adopted shall be maintained on file as a public record in the office of the city clerk for public inspection and review.
(Ord. No. 05-08, § 2(4.03), 8-15-05; Ord. No. 05-11, Art. 1, 8-15-05)
Sec. 86-74. - Amendments to the official zoning map.
Should changes be made to district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official zoning map in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and state law, a notation shall be made on the map, indicating such changes promptly following adoption of the implementing ordinance accompanying the map amendment that accomplished such change by the city council. Such amendments shall be recorded in the minutes of the mayor and council and shall be available for public inspection. mayor and council are encouraged to re-adopt the official zoning map periodically, incorporating such notations of map changes as have been accomplished in the past year.
The official zoning map, as adopted by the mayor and city council and amended from time to time by action of that governing body, shall be maintained and available in the office of the city clerk. All zoning district boundary changes and amendments to the zoning map shall be noted on the map maintained in the office of the city clerk with the date of the zoning change or amendment and reference to the implementing ordinance.
(Ord. No. 05-08, § 2(4.04), 8-15-05)
Sec. 86-75. - Unauthorized alteration of official zoning map constitutes a violation.
No alteration of any nature shall be made to the official zoning map or matter shown thereon, except in conformance with procedures set forth in this chapter. Any unauthorized change to the official zoning map of whatever kind by any person or persons shall be considered a violation of this chapter, punishable as provided under this chapter.
(Ord. No. 05-08, § 2(4.05), 8-15-05)
Sec. 86-76. - Replacement of official zoning map.
In the event the original official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed or lost, the city council may by resolution adopt a new official zoning map which shall supersede all previous such maps. The new official zoning map may be used to correct errors or omissions in the original official zoning map, but no such correction shall have the effect of amending the original official zoning map or any subsequent amendment thereof. Unless the original official zoning map has been lost or wholly destroyed, the original map or any remaining significant portions thereof shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or amendment.
(Ord. No. 05-08, § 2(4.06), 8-15-05)
Sec. 86-77. - Determination of zoning district boundaries.
The boundaries of the zoning districts as shown on the official zoning map shall be determined on the basis of legal descriptions or boundary surveys associated with approved zoning applications or, lacking such legal descriptions or surveys, on the basis of the location of the boundaries depicted on the official zoning map.
All property located in the city limits is assigned a zoning district as indicated on the official zoning map, and no property shall be used except in accordance with the zoning district designations on the zoning map and the provisions of this chapter. Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any zoning district shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
Where a zoning district boundary is shown as approximately following the centerline of a street, alley, or public right-of-way; land lot line; corporate limit line; railroad right-of-way; militia district line; or a property boundary; or such lines extended, then such lines shall be construed to be the zoning district boundary.
Where a zoning district boundary is shown as being set back from a public street or a railroad right-of-way, and approximately parallel thereto, then such zoning district boundary shall be construed as being the noted distance, or in the absence of such a note, the scaled distance from the centerline of the public street or railroad right-of-way and as being parallel thereto.
Where a zoning district boundary divides a lot, the location of the line shall be the noted distance, or in the absence of such a note, the scaled distance from the lot lines. In such instances, and where the lot was held in single ownership at the time of passage of this chapter, the city manager may approve application of the standards and provisions of the zoning district in which the greater portion of the lot is located to the remaining portion of the lot; however, such application shall not encompass any part of such a lot that lies more than 35 feet beyond the zoning district boundary.
Where a double-frontage or through lot fronting on two different streets is divided by a zoning district boundary approximately paralleling the two streets, the standards and provisions of the zoning districts controlling development along each respective street on which the frontage of the lot is located shall apply to that portion of the lot so divided.
Where a zoning district boundary remains in doubt in particular instances following application of the above rules, the mayor and council shall determine the location of the district boundary.
(Ord. No. 05-08, § 2(4.07), 8-15-05)
Secs. 86-78—86-90. - Reserved.
