ARTICLE III. - MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESSES
DIVISION 1. - HOOKAH LOUNGES AND SMOKING BARS

Sec. 18-91. - Definitions.
The following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them herein unless the context clearly indicates a contrary meaning:
Hookah means a single or multi-stemmed water pipe and any associated products and devices which are used to produce fumes, smoke and/or vapor from the burning of material including, but not limited to, tobacco products, shisha or other plant materials.
Hookah lounge or smoking bar (used interchangeably) means an establishment that occupies exclusively an enclosed indoor space and that primarily is engaged in the retail sale of tobacco products for consumption by customers on the premises.
Shisha means a flavored or syrupy mixture of tobacco or herbal products which is intended to be smoked/consumed by a user through a hookah.
(Ord. No. 2018-001A , § 1, 1-8-2018)
Sec. 18-92. - Regulations.
A hookah lounge or smoking bar shall:
(1)
Derive revenue from the sale of food, alcohol or other beverages that is incidental to the sale of the tobacco products;
(2)
Prohibit entry to a person under the age of 18 years of age during the time when the establishment is open for business;
(3)
Prohibit any food or beverage not sold directly by the business to be consumed on the premises;
(4)
Maintain a valid permit for the retail sale of tobacco products as required to be issued by the appropriate authority in the city or town where the establishment is located;
(5)
Maintain a valid permit to operate a smoking bar issued by the state department of revenue;
(6)
Be and remain licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption and in which the service of food is only incidental to the consumption of such beverages;
(7)
Abide by the provisions in section 6-11 of this Code regarding times for sales of alcoholic beverages;
(8)
Be and remain engaged in the business of selling cigars and or sales/rental of hookahs and generated 40 percent or more of its total annual gross income from the on-site sale of such tobacco products and the rental of humidors, not including sales from vending machines, in a calendar year;
(9)
Be and remain registered with the local health department in the municipality in which the bar is located. A smoking bar registration shall remain in effect for one year and shall be renewable only if in the preceding calendar year the smoking bar generated 40 percent or more of its total annual gross income from the on-site sale of tobacco products and the rental of on-site humidors;
(10)
Post signs at each entrance and exit clearly stating that smoking is allowed on all or part of the premises and anyone under the age of 18 is prohibited from entering the premises;
(11)
Clearly mark outdoor seating and dining areas within ten feet of an entrance or exit of the smoking bar as "non-smoking";
(12)
Abide by the following air ventilation requirements:
a.
Smoking bar must have and maintain a ventilation system that exhausts smoke from the business and is designed in accordance with the state building code standards for the occupancy classification in use. The air handling systems from the smoking area shall be independent from the main air handling system that serves all other areas of the building and all air within the smoking area shall be exhausted directly to the outside by an exhaust fan. No air from the smoking area shall be recirculated to other parts of the building.
b.
During the hours of operation, the interior of the premises of a smoking bar shall be maintained with adequate illumination to make the conduct of patrons within the premises readily discernible to a person with normal vision.
(13)
Smoking, ashtrays and outdoor smoking areas within ten feet of entrances, exits, windows that open, ventilation intakes and accessibility ramps leading to and from an entrance or exit.
(Ord. No. 2018-001A , § 1, 1-8-2018)
Secs. 18-93—18-145. - Reserved.
