ARTICLE X. - EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS

Section 101. - Planned unit developments.
A proposed plan for a large scale development of a tract of land, which has a proposed design making it desirable to apply regulations more flexible than those contained in this resolution, may be submitted to the planning and zoning commission for consideration. Such proposed development may contain residential uses of various types and allied uses such as a shopping center to service the development. Upon finding that the following conditions exist, the board of commissioners may, after a public hearing, consider such zoning amendments as may be necessary for the establishment of the plan.
101.1.
Conditions. The following conditions must be met in order for the rezoning of property to the PUD classification to be considered:
101.11.
The tract of land to be developed must be at least 50 acres.
101.12.
The proposed development must not be allowable under any other single zoning district, because of lot area requirements, dimensional standards, or use regulations.
101.13.
Where desirable, adequate properly located areas are reserved for public uses such as schools, parks, and playgrounds.
101.14.
The property adjacent to the area included in the development must not be adversely affected.
101.15.
The site must have a minimum width between any two boundary lines of 450 feet and must adjoin or have direct access to at least one arterial or collector street.
101.16.
The request for rezoning to a PUD zoning classification and any development plan proposed in connection with a planned unit development must be submitted by all owners of the property proposed for the planned unit development.
101.2.
Procedure for approval of a planned unit development district. The filing of a plan for a planned unit development shall constitute a request for an amendment to this resolution and shall meet the requirements specified in article XV of this resolution. In addition, the following regulations shall apply:
101.21.
Two copies of a preliminary site plan shall be submitted to the planning and zoning commission.
101.22.
The planning and zoning commission shall review the proposal prior to submitting a recommendation to the board of commissioners. The planning and zoning commission may recommend reasonable additional requirements which may be imposed by the board of commissioners, including, but not limited to: utilities, drainage, landscaping and maintenance thereof, lighting, signs and advertising devices, screening accessways, curb cuts, traffic control, height of buildings, and setback of buildings, to protect adjoining residential lots or uses, or to protect the planned unit development from adjacent uses.
101.23.
Approval by the board of commissioners subsequent to a public hearing constitutes creation of the planned unit development district.
101.3.
Preliminary site plan required. In addition to information required for a preliminary plat by the subdivision regulations contained in this resolution, the preliminary site plan which accompanies an application for rezoning to a PUD classification shall include the following items. The planning and zoning commission may establish additional requirements for the preliminary site plan and may, in extraordinary cases, waive a particular requirement if, in its opinion, the fulfillment of that requirement is not necessary for a proper decision on the project:
(1)
The proposed title of the project and the name of the engineer, architect, designer or landscape architect, and the development.
(2)
Existing zoning and zoning district boundaries and proposed changes in zoning.
(3)
The location and size of existing and proposed streets, alleys, driveways, curb cuts, entrances and exits, parking and loading areas, including the number of parking and loading spaces, and outdoor lighting systems.
(4)
Location, height, and material of all fences, walls, screens, plants, and landscaping.
(5)
Proposed location, height, intended use, and character of all buildings.
(6)
Location, character, size, and height and orientation of proposed signs.
(7)
A tabulation of the total number of acres in the project, gross and net, and the percentage thereof proposed to be devoted to different dwelling types, commercial uses, other nonresidential uses, off-street parking, streets, parks, schools, and other public and private reservations.
(8)
A tabulation of the total number of dwelling units of various types in the project and the overall project density in dwelling units per acre, gross and net.
(9)
A general description of the proposal, stating the purpose and goals of the development, and the design features incorporated for meeting these goals. This description shall include a discussion of the proposed standards for development, including restrictions on the use of the property, density standards, yard requirements,and restrictive covenants.
101.4.
Final plat required. A final plat shall be recorded prior to submission of an application for a building permit. The plat shall comply with all laws, regulations, and resolutions governing the approval of subdivisions and, in addition, shall show all the features required on the preliminary site plan. A plat of development shall be recorded regardless of whether a subdivision is proposed. At least one of the final site plan maps shall include topographical contour lines at intervals no less than five feet.
101.5.
Review standards. The planning and zoning commission and board of commissioners shall review and decide upon plans for proposed planned unit developments in light of conformity with the comprehensive plan. Specifically, the proposed plan shall meet the following conditions:
101.51.
The plan shall provide for appropriate relationships between uses around the boundaries and uses within the PUD, and shall indicate in written form those measures which would be taken to ensure that adjacent property will not be adversely affected, and the PUD will be similarly protected.
101.52.
The plan shall conform to the purpose of this resolution as stated in article I.
101.53.
The plan shall include access to all developed property sufficient to provide for an acceptable level of fire protection.
101.6.
Miscellaneous provisions.
101.61.
Amendments and additions. Amendments or additions to an approved plan, or to the boundaries of a PUD district, shall be accomplished subject to the same regulations and procedures applicable to a new application.
101.62.
Deed restrictions. The planning and zoning commission may require filing of deed restrictions to help carry out the intent of this resolution.
101.7.
Site design requirements.
101.71.
Site design, general. The proposed development must be designed so as to produce an environment of stable and desirable character not out of harmony with its surrounding neighborhoods. The reviews by the planning and zoning commission and the board of commissioners shall consider the following design elements:
101.71.1.
Privacy. Personal and individual privacy shall be maintained and balanced with the provision of public and common areas.
101.71.2.
Variety. Interest and variety shall be sought by means of street design, changes in mixtures of building types, heights, facades, setbacks, plants, or size of open space. The design should be harmonious as a whole and not simply from street-to-street.
101.71.3.
Traffic and parking. No through or commercial traffic should be permitted; streets should not be straight for long distances, but should curve so as to discourage fast movement of traffic; group parking areas should be screened as defined in section 67, so that the vehicles are substantially hidden from the street.
101.71.4.
Lot area and lot width, general. Minimum average lot area for each category of dwelling unit (e.g., single-family, two-family, multifamily) shall be equal to the minimum requirements applicable in an R-3 district. Minimum lot area and lot width requirements may be increased by the county health department when the said department determines that an increased area or width is necessary for health reasons.
101.72.
Site design, detail. The following standards shall be met:
101.72.1.
Open space. A minimum of at least 20 percent of the gross area of the site should be retained as open space.
101.72.2.
Building coverage. The total ground area occupied by buildings and structures shall not exceed 30 percent of the total ground area of the planned unit development. Building coverage is defined as the land area covered by dwellings, balconies, porches, and other architectural projections, but not including roof overhangs, open balconies, and uncovered porches.
101.72.3.
Building heights. Height of particular buildings shall not be basis for denial or approval of a plan; provided any structures in excess of 35 feet shall be designed and platted to be consistent with the reasonable enjoyment of neighboring property and the efficiency of existing public services and facilities.
101.72.4.
Density of retail and service uses. No more than five percent of the floor space in the planned unit development shall be used for retail or service establishments.
101.72.5.
Street standards. All streets located in PUD districts shall be Class I streets.
101.72.6.
Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading requirements shall be as required in sections 62 and 63.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 102. - Yard requirements.
Yard requirements shall be modified subject to the following conditions:
102.1.
On double frontage lots, the required front yard shall be provided on each street.
102.2.
Whenever a rear property line of a lot abuts upon an alley, one-half of the alley width shall be considered as a portion of the required rear yard.
102.3.
An unroofed porch may project into a required front yard for a distance not exceeding ten feet.
102.4.
The front and side yard requirements may be waived where dwellings occupy space above commercial uses upon approval of the board of appeals and adjustments.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 103. - Access to public streets.
Access to public streets shall be maintained in accordance with the following requirements:
103.1.
Each principal use shall be located on a lot or parcel which provides frontage on a public street having a right-of-way of not less than 30 feet, except as otherwise provided herein.
103.2.
Any additional dwelling shall have access to a public street by means of a passageway open between ground and sky at least 20 feet in width.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 104. - Front and side yard setbacks for dwellings.
The setback requirements of this resolution for side yards on corner lots and front yards shall not apply to any lot where the average setback on developed lots located, wholly or in part, within 100 feet on each side of such lot and within the same block and zoning district and fronting on the same streets as such lot is less than the minimum required setback. In such cases, the setback on such lot may be less than the required setback, but not less than the average of the existing setbacks on the existing developed lots.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 105. - Underground buildings.
Yard and lot coverage requirements for buildings located totally or partially below ground level shall be modified subject to the following conditions:
105.1.
If any portion of the structure extends above the ground, that portion above the ground must comply with the yard and lot coverage requirements of the district in which it is located.
105.2.
If the structure is completely underground, it need not comply with the yard and lot coverage requirements of this resolution.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
Section 106. - Site built homes.
106.1.
A site built home shall be oriented with its long axis parallel to the street on which the lot fronts. An exception may be granted on lots where the slope requires one or more foundation pier(s) to exceed 44 inches in height; in which case, the site built home shall be placed perpendicular to the street. If the home is located in excess of 300 feet from any public road right-of-way it may face in any direction. The preceding exceptions may be granted by the zoning enforcement officer after verification.
(Ord. No. 201203-2o, 3-20-2012)
