PART I. - THE CHARTER[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— H.B. 629 repealed the former City Charter, §§ 1.01—6.07, and added a new City Charter as set out herein. The former City Charter derived from Ga. L. 1971, p. 3620, as amended. Historical notes in parentheses at the end of sections indicate the source of any amendatory acts. Numbering, including subsection designations, is that of the act, as amended. Any information appearing in brackets has been supplied by the codifier for clarification and is not part of the original act. Severability and repealer clauses have been omitted from this printing.

ARTICLE I. - CHARTER, CITY LIMITS, AND CORPORATE POWERS

Sec. 1.01. - Reincorporation.
This Act shall constitute the whole Charter of the City of Kennesaw, Georgia. The City of Kennesaw, Georgia, in the County of Cobb, and the inhabitants thereof, shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the name and style of the "City of Kennesaw, Georgia," and by that name shall have perpetual succession, may contract and be contracted with, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all the courts of law and equity, and in all actions whatsoever, and may have and use a common seal and change it at its pleasure.
Sec. 1.02. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of this city shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this Charter and any other property properly annexed under Georgia law.
(b)
Alterations may be made from time to time in the manner provided by law. The boundaries of this city at all times shall be shown on a map to be retained permanently in the office of the city clerk and to be designated: "Official Map of the Corporate Limits of the City of Kennesaw, Georgia." Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map certified by the city clerk shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as the original map.
(c)
The mayor and city council may provide for the redrawing of any such map by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the entire map or maps which it is designated to replace.
Sec. 1.03. - Corporate powers.
The corporate powers of the city, to be exercised by the mayor and council, include the following:
(a)
To levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation for state and county purposes and to contract with any city, county, or other governmental and political subdivisions for the ministerial acts of billing and collection of city ad valorem taxes, or other fees, assessments, or taxes, as the mayor and council may by resolution authorize.
(b)
To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades, and professions as authorized by Title 48 of the O.C.G.A. or other such applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted; to permit and regulate the same; to provide for the manner and method of payment of such regulatory fees and taxes; and to revoke such permits after due process for failure to pay any city taxes or fees.
(c)
To appropriate and borrow money, to provide for payment of the debts of the city, and to authorize the expenditure of money for any municipal purpose, or for matters of national or state interest, and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized under this Charter or the general laws of this state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issues by municipalities in effect at the time such issue is undertaken. Whenever the city shall desire to create a bonded debt for the purpose of carrying into effect any of the powers and provisions of this Charter, it shall have the right and authority to do so when authorized by a majority of the qualified voters of the city voting in an election.
(d)
To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal, or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the city.
(e)
To condemn property, inside or outside of the corporate boundaries of the city, for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the mayor and council, utilizing procedures enumerated in the O.C.G.A., or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(f)
To acquire, lease, construct, operate, distribute, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including but not limited to a waterworks system, sewerage system, natural gas system, electrical power system, storm-water management system, and a community antenna television system, both inside and outside the corporate limits, and any other public utility subject to the provisions of applicable general law. For water, gas, and electricity furnished, for storm-water utility and for all sewerage and sanitary service rendered, the city may prescribe the charges, rates, fares, fees, regulations, and standards and conditions of service to be provided, and shall have a lien against any property of the persons served; such lien to be enforceable in the same manner and with the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
(g)
To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services, including but not limited to those stated above, not to exceed 30 years. The mayor and council may prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with the laws of the State of Georgia.
(h)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation, and maintenance of public ways, parks, playgrounds, recreational facilities, public grounds, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment, airports, and hospitals; charitable, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, correctional, detention, penal, and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities; any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate boundaries of the city; and to regulate the use thereof; and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation pursuant to the O.C.G.A. or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(i)
To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(j)
To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse and to provide power and authority to take all necessary and proper means for keeping the city limits free from garbage, trash, and filth. The city may contract with customers outside of city limits subject to valid intergovernmental agreement. Charges or fees may be imposed to cover the costs of such services, which if unpaid, shall constitute a debt which shall be subject to a lien against any property of persons served which shall be enforceable in the same manner, and under the same remedies, as a lien for city property taxes.
(k)
To define, regulate, and prohibit any act, practice, conduct, or use of property which is detrimental or likely to be detrimental to the health, morals, safety, security, peace, convenience, or general welfare of inhabitants of the city.
(l)
To define a nuisance in the city and to provide for its abatement. The municipal court judge of the city shall have jurisdiction of all nuisance abatement proceedings in the city. The city may provide by ordinance for any building, structure, or condition maintained in violation of any valid law of this state or any valid ordinance of the city, to be adjudged a nuisance and for its abatement at the owner's expense upon his or her failure or refusal to abate the same within ten days after written notice from the city to do so and after an opportunity to be heard on same.
(m)
To establish minimum standards for, and to regulate the building, construction, and repair of electrical wiring and equipment, gas installation and equipment, plumbing, and housing for the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards based on standards as outlined in the International Building Codes standards and other similar standards.
(n)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the municipal court may work out such sentences in any public works or on the public streets of the city to maintain public facilities and grounds as provided by ordinance; or the mayor and council may provide for the commitment of city prisoners to any county work camp or other governmental agency or jail by agreement with the appropriate county or governmental officers.
(o)
To regulate, license, tax, or prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same, in violation of any ordinance or lawful orders, and to provide for their disposition by sale, gift, or humane destruction, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance to provide punishment for violation of ordinances enacted hereunder.
(p)
To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in amounts prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicles, or any other reasonable regulations as may be prescribed by ordinance.
(q)
To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the cost for any public improvements.
(r)
To provide that upon conviction for violation of any ordinance, rule, regulation, or order, the offender may be punished within limitations prescribed by the mayor and council in such ordinance, rule, regulation, or order but not exceeding the limitation prescribed by this Charter or state law.
(s)
To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, morals, and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under the Constitution or general laws of the State of Georgia. No enumeration of particular powers in this Act shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers; but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to cities under the Constitution or applicable public acts of this state.
(t)
To levy taxes and to make appropriations for the purpose of advertising the city and its advantages and resources so as to bring new capital and commercial and manufacturing and other enterprises into the city, and also to levy taxes and to make payment from the general revenues and funds of the city for the support of public hospitals and libraries, arboretums and museums.
(u)
To regulate and control public streets, public alleys, and ways; and in the discretion of the mayor and council by ordinance to alter, open, or close public streets and public alleys and ways.
(v)
To contract with any state department or agency or any other political subdivision for joint services or the exchange of services; and to contract with such agencies or subdivisions for the joint use of facilities or equipment; and to contract with any such agency or subdivision to perform any service or execute any project in which the municipality has an interest.
(w)
To authorize the providing of surety bonds for employees, such bonds to be payable to the city, with premiums payable by the city, when necessary or proper.
(x)
Internet Service Provider and Wireless (Wi-Fi) Internet Service Provider. The city shall have the power and authority to construct, acquire, own, hold, lease, sell, resell, build, maintain, operate, and contract for an Internet systems network in order to provide Internet services, including but not limited to wireless (Wi-Fi) Internet service and other associated and related technologies; to interconnect its system to community needs; to finance such system, from time to time, through the issuance of revenue bonds as may be permitted by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia or through public or private contracts or both; to make any contract for and furnish the services of any such system to consumers within the city limits or pursuant to intergovernmental agreement for locations outside the city limits; and to recoup and defray the costs associated with providing such services through the leasing, selling, or sponsoring of web space for advertisement purposes.
( H.B. 1345 , § 1, eff. 5-5-06)
Sec. 1.04. - Continuation of existing ordinances.
All ordinances, resolutions, bylaws, rules, regulations, and acts now in force in the city, not inconsistent with this Charter, are hereby declared valid and of force until amended or repealed by the mayor and council of the city.
Sec. 1.05. - Gender.
The masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter.
ARTICLE II. - CITY GOVERNMENT

Sec. 2.01. - Establishment of city government.
The corporate governmental powers of the City of Kennesaw shall be vested in a mayor and five councilmembers to be known as the "Mayor and Council of the City of Kennesaw." The mayor and council shall be elected at large by the qualified voters of the city and shall exercise their powers in such manner as prescribed by this Charter, the Constitution, and applicable general laws of the State of Georgia, or if not prescribed, in such manner as prescribed by the duly established ordinances of the City of Kennesaw.
Sec. 2.02. - Qualification for mayor and councilmembers.
To be eligible for the office of elected or appointed mayor or councilmember a person must be at least 21 years of age and must meet the requirements of a qualified voter of the city as described by state law, and must be a bona fide resident of the City of Kennesaw for one year prior to election day, subject to all applicable state and federal laws. No person shall be qualified to hold the office of mayor or councilmember who shall have been convicted of a felony unless such person has received a full pardon and has had all rights of citizenship restored.
Sec. 2.03. - Election of mayor and councilmembers.
(a)
The mayor and city councilmembers serving on the effective date of this Charter shall continue to serve until the expiration of their terms of office and until their successors are duly elected and qualified as provided by law.
(b)
The mayor and each city councilmember shall be elected at large by all city residents qualified to vote at city elections.
(c)
On Tuesday next following the first Monday in November, 2015, and on said date quadrennially thereafter, an election shall be held for the position of mayor. The candidate receiving a plurality of the votes shall be declared elected as mayor.
(d)
(1)
Councilmembers shall be elected to one of the following posts: Post 1, Post 2, Post 3, Post 4, or Post 5. None of the posts shall be tied to any geographical boundaries of or within the city.
(2)
On the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November, 2013, and on said date quadrennially thereafter, an election shall be held for those councilmembers who are to serve as "Councilmember, Post No. 3," "Councilmember, Post No. 4," and "Councilmember, Post No. 5." The candidate for each post receiving a plurality of the votes cast shall be declared elected as councilmember for the post for which he or she qualified.
(3)
On the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November, 2015, and on said date quadrennially thereafter, an election shall be held for those councilmembers who are to serve as "Councilmember, Post No. 1," and "Councilmember, Post No. 2." The candidate receiving a plurality of the votes shall be declared elected as councilmember for the post for which he or she qualified.
(e)
Any person possessed with the qualifications as required by law may qualify for any council post or for mayor.
Sec. 2.04. - Terms of office.
Except as otherwise provided by law, the terms of office for mayor and councilmembers shall begin on the first regularly scheduled council meeting in January following their respective elections and shall continue for four years, or until their successors are elected and qualified.
Sec. 2.05. - City council.
(a)
The governing body of the city shall be composed of a mayor and five councilmembers, in which is vested all corporate, legislative, and other powers of the city, except as otherwise provided in this Charter. The mayor and council shall hold regular public meetings at a stated time and place as provided by ordinance.
(b)
Special meetings of the city council may be held on call of the mayor or mayor pro tem and two members of the city council. It shall be the duty of the clerk, deputy clerk, and/or the city manager to present, personally, in writing, by telephone, or by electronic communication, such notice of a special meeting at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice to councilmembers shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmembers are present when the special meeting is called. Such notice of any special meeting may be waived by a councilmember in writing before or after such a meeting and attendance at the meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice on any business transacted in councilmembers' presence. Only the business stated in the written call or stated as being the purpose in the oath or affidavit required in special sessions convened under the telephone notice provision of this Charter may be transacted at a special meeting, except by unanimous consent of all members of the council.
(c)
All meetings of the council and of the committees and of every agency, board, commission, and authority, or similar body of the city, shall be public in the same manner and to the same extent as required by Chapter 14 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A., relating to open and public meetings, as it now exists or may hereafter be amended. Any person shall have access to the minutes and records thereof at reasonable times in the same manner and to the same extent as required by Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A., relating to inspection of public records, as it now exists or may hereafter be amended.
(d)
Four members of the governing body of the city shall constitute a quorum.
(e)
The mayor and council shall exercise their powers in public meetings. The mayor and council may by ordinance adopt rules and bylaws to govern the conduct of its business, including procedures and penalties for compelling the attendance of absent members. The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for punishment of contemptuous behavior conducted in its presence.
Sec. 2.06. - Mayor as presiding officer; additional powers.
The mayor shall preside at meetings of the council; shall have a vote only in the case of a tie vote by councilmembers; shall have veto power, and shall have five business days after the meeting with the council in which to file with the clerk, in writing, his or her dissent, but the council may, at the same meeting or at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the mayor and council, pass any such ordinance, order, or resolution, notwithstanding the veto, by a vote of four-fifths of the total number of councilmembers, to be taken by ayes and nays, and entered upon the minutes. The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city and shall have the authority to appoint councilmembers to advise the various departments of the city through the direction of the city manager. The mayor shall sign ordinances and resolutions on their final passage; may obtain short-term loans in the name of the city when authorized by the council to do so; shall sign deeds, bonds, and contracts when authorized by the council to do so; and shall perform all other duties imposed by this Charter and by duly adopted ordinances.
(H.B. 1111, § 1, eff. 4-28-16)
Sec. 2.07. - Mayor pro tem.
At the first regular meeting, and after the newly elected councilmembers have taken office following each regular election, the council shall elect from its membership a mayor pro tem for a term of one year. Upon the council's failure to elect a mayor pro tem by its first meeting of each year, the incumbent councilmember who received the highest number of votes when last elected shall be declared mayor pro tem. The mayor pro tem shall perform the duties of the mayor during his or her absence from the city or his or her medically diagnosed disability.
Sec. 2.08. - Vacancy in office of mayor or council.
(a)
A vacancy shall exist if the mayor or a councilmember resigns, dies, moves his or her residence from the city, or is absent from four consecutive regular meetings of the mayor and council, except if granted a leave of absence by the council and such leave of absence is entered on the minutes; or if he or she is adjudged incompetent; or is convicted of malfeasance in office or of a felony.
(b)
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of a member of the council from any cause other than the expiration of a term of office, the vacancy shall be filled in the following manner:
(c)
If the vacancy occurs within 12 months of the expiration of the term, the vacancy shall be filled by the mayor and council electing a qualified person to serve out the unexpired term of office. If the vacancy occurs within 30 days prior to the regular city election, the vacancy shall be filled at such regular election under the same rules and regulations and provisions of law pertaining to the election of councilmembers.
(d)
If the vacancy occurs at any other time not provided for above, the vacancy shall be filled by a special election pursuant to a call of a special election as provided by this Charter. At no time shall there be more than one councilmember so appointed holding office; and if a vacancy occurs on the council with one member so appointed on the council, a special election shall be held within a period of 45 days after the office becomes vacant pursuant to a call of a special election as provided by this Charter; however, if a special election is called pursuant to this Charter, the vacancy previously filled by appointment as well as the existing vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired terms in a special election: provided, however, if a regular election for the city shall be held within three months after the second vacancy occurs, the first vacancy previously filled by appointment and the second vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired terms at such regular election.
(e)
In the event a vacancy shall occur in the office of mayor, a special election shall be called and held in the manner prescribed by the Georgia Election Code (Title 21, Ch. 2, O.C.G.A.) as it now exists or may hereafter be amended, so long as the vacancy occurs at least three months prior to the regular expiration date of the term. If the vacancy occurs within three months of the expiration date of the term, the mayor pro tem shall serve until the expiration date, and shall be authorized during such period to exercise all of the powers of the mayor provided by this Charter.
Sec. 2.09. - Compensation and expenses.
The mayor and council may determine the salary of the mayor and councilmembers by ordinance, provided that salary changes enacted shall not become effective until the first regular meeting after the next calendar year. Each councilmember and the mayor, when authorized by the mayor and council and upon presentation of itemized vouchers, shall receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
Sec. 2.10. - City clerk.
(a)
The mayor and council shall appoint a city clerk who shall serve at their pleasure, supervision, and direction. The city clerk shall be responsible for keeping and preserving the city seal and all records of the council; attending meetings of the council and keeping a journal of its proceedings at such meetings, including the names of members present and absent, the vote of each member on each question, each motion considered, and the text of each resolution or ordinance considered; preparing and certifying copies of official records in his or her office, for which fees may be prescribed by ordinance; and performing such other duties as may be required by law or as tasked or directed by the mayor and council.
(b)
The mayor and council may require the clerk, before entering upon discharge of his or her duties, to give good and sufficient bond in the amount to be decided by the mayor and council, but not less than $2,500.00, such bond payable to the City of Kennesaw, for the faithful performance of his or her duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriations or unlawful expenditures. Such surety bond shall be obtained from a surety company licensed to do business in the State of Georgia and approved by the mayor and council, and the premium thereon shall be paid by the city.
Sec. 2.11. - City legislation.
Any action of the council having a regulatory or penal affect or required to be done by ordinance under this Charter shall be done only by ordinance. Each resolution and ordinance shall be in written form before being introduced. The affirmative vote of at least three members of the council shall be required to pass any resolution or ordinance. After adoption of ordinances, the city clerk shall number ordinances consecutively, in the order of their final adoption, and shall copy them into a permanent record book used solely for this purpose; and the city clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of numbers and a separate record book, which may include electronic files. The original copies of all ordinances, resolutions, and motions shall be filed and preserved by the city clerk.
Sec. 2.12. - Public reading of ordinances.
No ordinance shall be approved until a summary of such shall have been read at a regular public meeting of the mayor and city council of Kennesaw, Georgia.
Sec. 2.13. - City manager.
The city manager shall serve at the pleasure and direction of the Kennesaw mayor and council and shall assume the position and duties as the chief administrative officer of the city and such other duties as may be assigned by the mayor and council from time to time, including but not limited to director of finance and administration, purchasing agent for all departments, coordinator of commissions and departments of the city, and the general management of city business under the direction and guidance of the mayor and council.
Sec. 2.14. - Suspension and removal of officers.
(a)
If the mayor or any member of the council is indicted for any felony in any court in the United States, the council, by majority vote of its members, may direct the city attorney to file a petition with the Superior Court of Cobb County to suspend such officer with pay pending the resolution of such indictment and shall serve a copy of such petition upon such officer. Upon the filing of such a petition, the Superior court of Cobb County shall conduct a hearing on such petition, and if the court finds that the continued service by such officer would not be in the best interest of the public, the court shall issue an order suspending such officer with pay until such indictment is resolved.
(b)
The mayor and councilmembers may be removed from office for any one or more of the causes provided in Title 45 of the O.C.G.A. or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(c)
Removal of an officer pursuant to subsection (b) of this section shall be accomplished by one of the following methods:
(1)
By an order of the Superior Court of Cobb County following a hearing on a complaint seeking such removal brought by the city attorney. Such action shall only be undertaken by the city attorney upon the adoption of a resolution directing the city attorney to file such complaint by a majority of the members of the council; or
(2)
By an order of the Superior Court of Cobb County following a hearing on a complaint seeking such removal brought by any resident of the city of Kennesaw.
(d)
The provisions of this section shall be in addition to any other provisions of law for removal or suspension of officers.
(H.B. 1111, § 1, eff. 4-28-16)
ARTICLE III. - ORGANIZATION AND PERSONNEL

Sec. 3.01. - Organization.
The city government shall continue as presently organized. The city manager, with approval of the mayor and council, may establish, abolish, merge, or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city; may provide that the same person shall fill a number of offices and positions of employment, and may transfer or change the functions and duties of offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city.
Sec. 3.02. - Administrative duties of the mayor.
The mayor shall be the executive head of the city government. Together with the city council, the mayor shall appoint a city manager who shall be responsible for the efficient and orderly administration of the city's affairs. The mayor shall be responsible for the enforcement of laws, rules, regulations, ordinances, and franchises in the city. The mayor may conduct inquiries and investigations into the conduct of the city's affairs and shall have such powers and duties as may be provided by ordinance not inconsistent with this Charter.
Sec. 3.03. - City attorney.
The mayor and council shall appoint a city attorney together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized by ordinance. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the council as directed; and shall advise the council, mayor, and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs.
Sec. 3.04. - Oath of office.
Before a person takes any office in the city government, he or she shall take, before an officer of the state authorized to administer oaths, the following such oath or affirmation: "I swear that I will faithfully and impartially uphold the Constitution of this State and of the United States, and will conduct myself faithfully as mayor (or councilmember, as the case may be) during my continuance in office. I have not, in order to influence my election to this office, directly or indirectly promised my vote or support to any person or officer in the government of the City of Kennesaw, nor for any other office. I will not knowingly permit my vote in the election or appointment of any persons to a position in this government to be influenced by fear, favor, or the hope of reward, but in all things pertaining to my office I will be governed by what in my judgment is for the public good and for the best interest of the city, so help me God."
Sec. 3.05. - Political activity prohibited.
No officer or employee of the city, other than the mayor and councilmembers, shall continue in the employment of the city after becoming a candidate for nomination or election to any city office.
Sec. 3.06. - City planning and renewal.
The council may create and establish a planning commission pursuant to the provisions of general law as they now exist or as they may hereafter be amended.
ARTICLE IV. - FISCAL ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 4.01. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on the first day of October and end on the 30th day of September of each year. Such fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for fiscal accounting and reporting of every office, department, agency, and activity of the city government unless otherwise prohibited by law.
Sec. 4.02. - Mayor to submit annual budget.
On or before a date fixed by the council, but not later than October 31, the city manager shall submit to the council through the mayor a proposed operating budget for the new fiscal year, showing separately for the general funds, each utility, and other funds, the following: (a) the revenue and expenditures during the preceding fiscal year; (b) appropriations, estimated revenue, and recommended expenditures for the next fiscal year; (c) a comparative statement of the assets, liabilities, reserves, and surplus at the end of the current fiscal year; and (d) such other information and data as may be considered necessary by the mayor and council.
Sec. 4.03. - Action by council on budget.
Before the end of the second month of the current fiscal year, the council shall adopt an appropriate ordinance based on the mayor's budget, with such modifications as the council considers necessary or desirable. Appropriations need not be in more detail than a lump sum for each department, office, and agency unless otherwise directed by the council. The council shall not make any appropriations in excess of estimated revenue, except to provide for an actual emergency threatening the health, property, or lives, safety, or general welfare of the inhabitants of the city; provided the council unanimously agrees that there is such an emergency. If conditions prevent the adoption of an appropriation ordinance before the second month of the current fiscal year, the appropriations for the previous fiscal year shall become the appropriations for the new fiscal year, subject to amendment as provided by ordinance specifically passed for such purpose.
Sec. 4.04. - Additional appropriations.
The council may make appropriations in addition to those contained in the current operating budgets at any regular or special meeting called for such purpose, but any such additional appropriations shall be made for any public purpose only from an existing undesignated cash fund balance.
Sec. 4.05. - Lapse of appropriations.
All unencumbered balances of appropriations in the current operating budget at the end of the fiscal year and following review of revenues, any net surplus, shall be closed into the applicable undesignated fund balance.
Sec. 4.06. - Capital improvements budget.
(a)
On or before a date fixed by the council, but not later than the first regularly scheduled meeting of the new fiscal year, the city manager shall submit to the council through the mayor a proposed capital improvements budget with his or her recommendations as to the means of financing such improvements. The council shall have power to accept such budget with or without amendments or reject the proposed budget and proposed means of financing. The council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work, or improvement unless the appropriations for such projects are included in the capital improvements budget, except to meet a public emergency in the lives, health, or property of inhabitants, when passed by a four-fifths vote of the membership of the council. Such capital improvements budget may be revised and extended each year with regard to the capital improvements still pending on or in the process of construction or acquisition.
(b)
Before November 30 of the current fiscal year, the council shall adopt an appropriate ordinance based on the proposed capital improvements budget, with such modifications as the council considers necessary or desirable. No appropriation provided for in the capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned, provided that, the mayor and council may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by a majority vote of the council.
Sec. 4.07. - Sale of city property.
Subject to other provisions of state and federal law, the mayor and council may sell any city property which is obsolete, surplus, or unusable at public sale with no less than 15 days' written notice to the public following the appropriate action declaring the property obsolete, surplus, or unusable at a regular meeting of the mayor and council, for such consideration as received; provided, however, the mayor and council shall not be obligated to sell such property unless the mayor and council consider the price to be equitable and just. In accordance with Code Section 36-37-6(b) of the O.C.G.A., as amended, surplus property with an estimated value of $500.00 or less, as determined by the finance director, city manager, or his or her designee, may be sold in the open market without advertisement and without acceptance of bids. Notice of the sale of surplus property may be posted on city bulletin boards so as to make it open market.
Sec. 4.08. - Annual audit.
The mayor and council shall employ a certified public accountant to make an annual audit of all financial books and records of the city. The accountant shall file his or her report with the mayor and council and shall prepare a summary of the report which shall be furnished or made available to the mayor and every councilmember within 180 days of the closed audited fiscal year.
Sec. 4.09. - Publication of financial statement.
As soon as practicable after the close of the fiscal year, but within six months after the close thereof, the mayor and council shall cause to be published in a local newspaper or on the city's website an annual report which shall contain a general statement of revenues and expenditures showing all municipal accounts as of the close of the preceding fiscal year. Such annual report shall be prepared so as to fairly represent the general financial condition of the city as of the close of the preceding fiscal year.
Sec. 4.10. - Property taxes.
All property subject to taxation for state or county purposes, assessed as of January 1 in each year, shall be returned for taxes each year on or before April 1. Failure to make a tax return in a timely manner, as defined by city ordinance, will result in a penalty on the taxes due on such property, along with interest on delinquent taxes and penalties, all as described by city ordinance. The board of tax assessors appointed by the Cobb County Board of Commissioners shall evaluate and assess all city property for tax purposes as provided by Georgia law. Appeals involving city property assessments may be taken as now or as may hereafter be provided by general law.
(Ord. No. 2016-23, 9-19-16)
Sec. 4.11. - Tax levy.
(a)
The mayor and council shall be authorized to levy an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, providing governmental services, and for any other public purpose as determined by the mayor and council, and is also authorized to provide for sufficient levy to pay principal and interest on general obligation.
(b)
The mayor and council shall establish by ordinance a millage rate for the city property tax; a due date; and in what length of time these taxes must be paid. The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for the payment of these taxes by installments or in one lump sum, as well as to authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
Sec. 4.12. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by fi. fa. issued by the city clerk or finance director and executed by the chief of police or any person designated by ordinance under the same procedure provided by laws governing execution of such process from the superior court, or by the use of any other available legal processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property on which city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment day of January 1 of each year, which shall be superior to all other liens except that it shall have equal dignity with those for federal, state, or county taxes.
Sec. 4.13. - Transfer of executions.
The clerk of the city or finance director of Kennesaw shall be authorized to transfer and assign any fi. fa. or execution issued for street, sewer, or any other assessment in the same manner, upon the same terms, and to the same effect, and thereby vest the purchaser or transferee, with the same rights as in cases of sales or transfers of tax fi. fas. as now provided by law; and in all sales of property hereafter made under execution on behalf of the city for the collection of street, sewer, and other assessments, the owner or owners, as the case may be, are authorized to redeem same within the same time and on compliance with the same terms and payment of the same premium, interest, and costs, as in cases of redemption of property where sold under state or county ad valorem tax fi. fa. as the same now exists, or as may from time to time be provided by law.
Sec. 4.14. - Special assessments.
The council may assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances, against the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent 30 days after their due dates, and shall thereupon be subject, in addition to fi. fa. charges, to interest at the rate of 1 percent per month from due date until paid. Upon payment becoming 90 days past due from the due date, a penalty of 10 percent or ten dollars ($10.00), whichever is greater, shall be added to the total balance. A lien for such amount plus fi. fa. charges, interest, and penalties, shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes, and such lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided in this article for city property taxes.
Sec. 4.15. - Investment, preservation, and use of proceeds from sale of water and sewer system.
(a)
In the event the City of Kennesaw shall cause the water and sewer system to be sold, the city shall invest a minimum of $9,000,000.00 of the net proceeds therefrom in state approved investment vehicles. The principal balance shall neither be spent nor sold without first putting the same question describing such use of the principal balance on a public referendum. Such expenditure of the principal balance shall be spent or sold only upon its approval by a majority of the voters casting a vote in such public referendum.
(b)
The provisions set forth in the paragraph above shall not affect the right of this mayor and council, or any succeeding mayor and council, to use any accumulated interest generated by the chosen investment vehicle for whatever lawful purposes the mayor and council so determine, including, but not limited to, the repayment of bonded indebtedness and other municipal obligations.
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS

Sec. 5.01. - Regular elections.
The regular elections for mayor and councilmembers shall be held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November of the election year as their terms fall. Except as otherwise provided by law, officials elected at any regular election shall take office at the first regularly scheduled council meeting in January following their respective elections.
Sec. 5.02. - Qualification of candidates.
(a)
As provided in state law, each candidate for municipal office or a designee shall file a notice of candidacy in the office of the election superintendent during the city's qualifying period. The election superintendent shall designate the days of the qualifying period, which shall be no less than three days and no more than five days. The days of the qualifying period shall be consecutive days.
Qualifying periods shall commence no earlier than 8:30 a.m. on the last Monday in August immediately preceding the general election and shall end no later than 4:30 p.m. on the following Friday; and in the case of a special election, the municipal qualifying period shall commence no earlier than the date of the call and shall end no later than 25 days prior to the election.
(b)
As provided in state law, the hours of qualifying each day shall be from 8:30 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. with one hour allowed for the lunch break; provided, however, that should the city have normal business hours which cover a lesser period of time, it shall conduct qualifying during its normal business hours. Except in the case of a special election, notice of the opening and closing dates and the hours for candidates to qualify shall be published at least two weeks prior to the opening of the qualifying period.
(c)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, the qualification period shall be no less than that required by O.C.G.A. § 21-2-132(d)(3), as amended.
Sec. 5.03. - Qualification of electors.
Any person meeting the qualifications of an elector of members of the General Assembly under state law who is a bona fide resident of the City of Kennesaw shall be qualified to register as an elector in any city election held under this Charter.
Sec. 5.04. - Applicability of general laws.
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the election of all officials of the City of Kennesaw where provision is made for election by the qualified voters thereof, shall be conducted as to special or general elections in conformity so far as applicable with the provisions of the Georgia Election Code in Title 21, Chapter 2 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated as it now exists or may hereafter be amended. Whenever any time period established by such code is altered so as to change or supersede any time period provided in this Charter, it shall be considered that such periods in this Charter shall be correspondingly changed so as to avoid any conflict between the Charter and the general law.
Sec. 5.05. - Time of election; polls.
At all primaries and elections the polls shall be opened at 7:00 a.m. eastern standard time or eastern daylight time, whichever is applicable, and shall remain open continuously until 7:00 p.m. eastern standard time or eastern daylight time, whichever is applicable, at which time they shall be closed as provided by state law.
Sec. 5.06. - Place of elections.
The polling place or places for holding elections shall be prescribed by the mayor and council and shall be published in the election notice; provided, however, any change in a polling place shall be effected as provided by the Georgia Election Code in Title 21, Chapter 2 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated as it now exists or may hereafter be amended.
Sec. 5.07. - Voter registration.
In all elections held in the City of Kennesaw, whether special or general elections, the voters, in addition to the qualifications already prescribed, shall be registered as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Sec. 5.08. - Rules.
The mayor and council are hereby authorized to enact by ordinance such additional rules consistent with this Charter and general laws as are deemed necessary for the conduct of elections.
Sec. 5.09. - Absentee ballots.
The mayor and council in their discretion are authorized to provide by ordinance for absentee ballots for any city election.
Sec. 5.10. - Call for elections.
Any call for an election which is required to be made by the laws of this state shall be made by the mayor and council.
Sec. 5.11. - Contract to hold elections.
The city may contract with other local government entities to hold elections for the city.
ARTICLE VI. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 6.01. - Creation.
There is hereby established a court to be known as the "Municipal Court," City of Kennesaw, which shall have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against laws and ordinances of the city and to punish for violations of the same. Such court shall have the power to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by law; to punish witnesses for nonattendance, and to punish also any person who may counsel or advise, aid, encourage, or persuade another whose testimony is desired or material in any proceeding before such court, to go or move beyond the reach of the process of the court; to try all offenses within the territorial limits of the City of Kennesaw constituting traffic cases which under the laws of Georgia are placed within the jurisdiction of municipal or police courts to the extent of and in accordance with the provisions of such laws and all laws subsequently enacted amendatory thereof; to establish bail and recognizances to insure the presence of those charged with violations and to prescribe the condition of forfeiture of the same; and to administer oaths and to perform all other acts necessary and proper to the conduct of such court. The presiding officer of such court shall be known as the municipal court judge. Such court shall be convened at such times as designated by ordinance or at such times as deemed necessary to keep current the dockets thereof. The court shall sit at a place designated by the mayor and council.
Sec. 6.02. - Municipal court judge.
(a)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as municipal court judge unless he or she shall have attained the age of 21 years, shall not have been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude, and shall be qualified to vote in Cobb County. The municipal court judge shall be appointed by the mayor and council and shall serve at their discretion. The compensation of the municipal court judge shall be fixed by the mayor and council. Nothing in this Charter shall disqualify the mayor or any councilmember from serving as municipal court judge or municipal court judge pro tem.
(b)
The municipal court judge pro tem shall serve in the absence of the municipal court judge, shall have the same qualifications as the municipal court judge, and shall be appointed by the mayor and council.
(c)
Before commencing the duties of his or her office, the municipal court judge or municipal court judge pro tem shall take an oath before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths in this state that he or she shall truly, honestly, and faithfully discharge the duties of his or her office to the best of his or her ability without fear, favor, or partiality. This oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the meeting of the mayor and council.
Sec. 6.03. - Jurisdiction.
The municipal court judge shall have power to impose fines, costs, and forfeitures for the violation of any law or ordinance of the City of Kennesaw passed in accordance with this Charter for each offense in an amount not to exceed $1,000.00, to imprison offenders for a period of not more than six months, or both, or such lesser or greater punishment as may be prescribed by state law. Such municipal court judge shall not have the authority to inflict a greater punishment for contempt than to impose a fine not exceeding $200.00, imprisonment not exceeding ten days, or both, or such lesser or greater punishment as may be prescribed by state law. The municipal court judge shall be for all intents and purposes a magistrate, so far as to enable him or her to issue warrants for offenses committed within the limits of the City of Kennesaw, which warrants shall be executed by an officer of the city, and to commit the offenders to jail or admit them to bail in bailable cases for their appearance at the next term of court of competent jurisdiction to be held in the city. The municipal court shall also have concurrent jurisdiction with that of the magistrate over offenses against the criminal laws of the state committed within the corporate limits. Except as may be otherwise specified in this Charter, the municipal court judge is vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers as to the entire area within the corporate limits of the City of Kennesaw. The municipal court is specifically invested with all jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area within the corporate limits granted by state laws generally to mayors, municipal court judges, and police courts, and particularly such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances. The municipal court judge is hereby authorized to administer oaths.
Sec. 6.04. - Right of appeal.
modified
The right of appeal and procedures pertaining to appeal bonds to the Superior Court of Cobb County from the municipal court shall be entered as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 40-13-28 and Chapter 3, Title 5, of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated and as amended.
( Ord. No. 2023-13 MEETING , § 1, 7-5-23)
Sec. 6.05. - Court costs.
In all cases in the municipal court of the City of Kennesaw the costs incurred and allowable by this Charter may be computed under the provisions of the laws of the State of Georgia fixing costs in the magistrate courts of this state, or the mayor and council may establish a schedule of fees to defray costs of operation, and the city shall be entitled to reimbursement of the costs, meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to the superior court for violations of state law. The mayor and council may also provide a uniform scale of costs of the clerk and police officers of the city for all services in the arrest and prosecution of offenders in the municipal court and in the issuance and collection of tax and other executions; and for their collection and payment into the city treasury. The municipal court judge is hereby authorized to issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses to such municipal court, and to issue such other processes as may be necessary for the proper administration of such court.
Sec. 6.06. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the mayor and council, the municipal court judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the business of such court; provided, however, that the mayor and city council may adopt in part or in total the rules and regulations relative to the procedures for the operation of the superior courts under the general laws of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 6.07. - Probation.
In addition to the provisions of Section 6.03 of this Charter, the municipal court shall have the authority to place any person found guilty of a violation of a traffic law or ordinance of the City of Kennesaw on probation and to suspend or modify any sentence. In addition to such punishment, the court may require attendance at safety education schools, alcohol or drug risk reduction schools, or other training and educational programs. The municipal court shall have the authority to order any person placed on probation to pay a probation fee to the City of Kennesaw Probation Department or to any corporation, enterprise, or agency to which the City of Kennesaw has contracted to perform probation services. In addition, any person required to attend a safety education school, alcohol or drug risk reduction school, or other training or educational programs shall pay all the costs thereof. The municipal court shall further have authority to require any person found guilty of a violation of a traffic law or ordinance of the City of Kennesaw to submit to random drug or alcohol testing and to pay all costs of such tests. The mayor and council shall have the power to set probation fees.
CHARTER ORDINANCES COMPARATIVE TABLE
modified
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Charter
Ordinance
Number  Date Section  Section
this Charter
Chrtr. Amend.  7-20-98 1.01—6.07       Added 1.01—6.07
1998-06  7-20-98 ed. note
1998-08  7-20-98 6.07
2000-22  1-15-01 2.06
2004-49 10-18-04 1       Added 4.15
H.B. 1345  5- 5-06 1 1.03(g)
H.B. No. 1346,
Act No. 853  5- 5-06 1 2.05
H.B. No. 1347
Act No. 838  5- 5-06 1 ed. note
2006-01  9-27-06 4.10—4.12
4.14
2007-13  4- 2-07 5.01—5.10
2007-35 12- 3-07 Exh. A 1.01—1.03
      Added 1.04
2.01—2.13
3.01—3.06
4.01—4.15
5.01—5.10
      Added 5.11
6.01—6.07
H.B. 1430, Act No. 796  5-14-08       Added 1.02(x)
2008-27  8- 4-08 1 4.07
2008-31  8-18-08 1 2.06
2008-32  8-18-08 1 6.03
H.B. 629  5- 6-13 7.01       Rpld 1.01—6.07
1.01—6.07       Added 1.01—6.07
H.B. 1111  4-28-16 1 2.08
      Added 2.14
2016-23  9-19-16 4.10
2023-13 MEETING  7- 5-23 1 6.04
