ARTICLE V. - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Except as hereinafter provided:

Sec. 50. - Use.
No building or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and no building or part thereof shall be erected, constructed, moved, or altered except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is or is to be located.
Sec. 51. - Building heights.
No building shall hereafter be erected, constructed, or altered so as to exceed the height limit, to accommodate or house a greater number of families than are required or specified in the regulations herein for the district in which it is located.
Sec. 52. - Lots.
No lot even though it may consist of one or more adjacent lots of record shall be reduced in size so that lot width or depth, front, side or rear yard, inner, or outer courts, lot area per family or other requirements of this Ordinance are not maintained. This section shall not apply when a portion of a lot is acquired for public use or when a lot is divided between the two adjacent lots so that the divided lot becomes part of the adjacent standard size lots.
Sec. 53. - Yards.
No part of a yard or other open space required for any building for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this Ordinance shall be included as part of a yard or other open space similarly required for another building. Every part of a required yard or court shall be open from its lowest point to the sky unobstructed, except for the ordinary projection of sills, cornices, buttresses, ornamental features, chimneys, flues, and eaves, provided such projects shall not extend more than two (2) feet beyond the yard area requirements.
Sec. 54. - Off-street automobile parking per district.
Off-street automobile storage or parking space shall be provided on every lot on which any permitted or conditional use is established in accordance with this Ordinance.
54.1. General Requirements. For the purpose of this Ordinance the following requirements are specified:
54.1.1. The term "Off-street Parking Space" shall mean a space at least nine (9) feet wide and twenty (20) feet in length with a minimum net area of one hundred and eighty (180) square feet, excluding area for egress and ingress and maneuverability of vehicles which has a paved or concrete surface.
54.1.2. Handicapped Parking Spaces/Passenger Loading Zones: Parking Spaces/Passenger Loading Zones for Handicapped shall be provided as called for by the Standard Building Code, but in no event shall a handicap parking space be less than 11 feet wide, and each space shall be properly identified for handicap use.
54.1.3. Parking spaces for all dwellings shall be located on the same lot with the main buildings to be served, when feasible.
54.1.4. If an off-street parking space cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal use is conducted, the Planning Commission may permit such space to be provided on other off-street property, provided such space lies within 600 feet of the property line of such principal use. Such vehicle parking space shall be associated with the permitted use and shall not thereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
54.1.5. The required number of parking spaces for any number of separate uses may be combined in one lot, but the required space assigned to one use may not be assigned to another use at the same time, except that portion of the parking space required for existing church whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be assigned to a use which will be closed at nights or on Sundays.
54.1.6. Area reserved for off-street parking in accordance with the requirements of this Ordinance shall not be reduced in area or changed to any other use unless the permitted use which it serves is discontinued or modified, except where equivalent parking space is provided to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission.
54.1.7. Off-street parking existing at the effective date of this Ordinance in connection with the operation of an existing building or use shall not be reduced to an amount less than hereinafter required for a similar new building or use.
54.1.8. Off-street parking areas of 100 or more spaces, up to 30 percent of such required spaces may be stabilized and sodded rather than paved if not needed for extended daily usage. Such stabilized and sodded spaces shall be adequately marked or delineated by area and row and may not be counted as part of the required landscaping. In C-ED and C-PLMU Districts, parking areas of occasional use, such as outdoor theaters, event areas and seasonal events, 100 percent of spaces, exclusive of required handicap parking, may be stabilized and sodded as described above. Any drive serving more than 50 spaces, shall be paved at least 16 feet wide with at least 8 inches of base and at least 2 inches of asphalt.
54.2. Parking Space Requirements for all Districts Except C-1, Central Business District (CBD). Off-street automobile storage or parking shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley, and shall be equal in or to at least the minimum requirements for the specific land use set forth.
Land Uses and Parking Requirements:
54.2.1. Dwellings:
(1) One and Two Families - Two (2) spaces for each unit.
(2) Multiple - One and a half (1½) spaces per dwelling unit except for efficiency apartments for which one (1) space per dwelling unit shall be provided.
(3) Hotels - One (1) space for each bedroom plus one (1) additional space for each five (5) employees.
(4) Bed and Breakfast Inn - The resident owner shall provide one (1) off-street parking space for each guest room.
(5) Libraries, Museums - One (1) space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area.
(6) Schools, including kindergartens, playschools, and any day care centers - One (1) space for each four (4) seats in assembly hall, or one (1) space for each employee, including five (5) spaces per classroom for high school and colleges.
(7) Skating rinks, dance halls, exhibition halls, pool rooms and other places of amusement or assembly without fixed seating arrangements - One (1) space for each 200 square feet of floor area.
(8) Bowling Alleys - Four (4) spaces for each alley.
54.2.2. Health Facilities:
(1) Hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes, homes for the aged and similar institutional uses - One (1) space for each four (4) beds, plus one (1) space for each staff or visiting doctor, plus one (1) space for each four (4) employees, including nurses.
(2) Kennels and animal hospitals - A parking area equal to 30 percent of the total enclosed or covered area.
(3) Medical, dental and health offices and clinics - One (1) space for each 200 square feet of floor used for offices and similar purposes.
(4) Mortuaries and funeral parlors - Five (5) spaces per parlor or chapel unit, or one (1) space per four (4) seats, whichever is greater.
54.2.3. Businesses:
(1) Automobile repair establishments - One (1) space for each regular employee plus one (1) space for each 250 square feet of floor area.
(2) Food stores - One (1) space for each 200 square feet of floor area.
(3) Restaurants, including bars, grills, diners, cafes, taverns, night clubs, lunch counters, and all similar dining and/or drinking establishments - One (1) space for each 100 square feet of floor area or one (1) space for each four (4) seats provided, whichever is greater.
(4) Office buildings, including banks, businesses, commercial and professional offices and buildings, but excluding medical, dental and health offices and clinics - One (1) space for each 300 square feet of ground floor area, plus one (1) space for each 500 square feet of upper floor area.
(5) General businesses, commercial or personal service establishments catering to the retail trade, but excluding food stores - One (1) space for each 300 square feet of floor area.
(6) Governmental offices - One (1) space for each 300 square feet of ground floor area plus one (1) space for each 500 square feet of upper floor area and one (1) space for each governmental vehicle.
(7) Shopping Centers - Five (5) spaces for each 1,000 square feet of floor area for centers up to 15 acres in size and 5.5 spaces for each 1,000 square feet for centers over 15 acres in size.
(8) Furniture Stores - One (1) space for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area.
(9) Public Utilities, such as telephone exchanges and substations, radio and TV stations, and electric power and gas substations - A parking area equal to 25 percent of the gross floor area.
54.2.4. Industries:
(1) Commercial, manufacturing and industrial establishments, not catering to the retail trade - One (1) space for each three (3) employees on the maximum working shift, plus one (1) space for each company vehicle operating from the premises.
(2) Wholesale establishments - One (1) space for every fifty (50) square feet of customer service area, plus two (2) spaces for each three (3) employees on the maximum working shift, plus one (1) space for each company vehicle operating from the premises.
54.3 Parking Space Requirements for C-1 Central Business District (CBD). All provisions set forth in Section 54.1 and 54.2 apply to the C-1 Central Business District (CBD) except as follows:
54.3.1. Any commercial building existing on the effective date of this Ordinance may be reconstructed, remodeled or enlarged without increasing the existing off-street parking provided such reconstruction, remodeling or enlargement does not exceed more than ten (10) percent of the original gross commercial floor area. Additional off-street parking must be provided for only that portion of the additional gross commercial floor area in excess of ten (10) percent in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Ordinance.
54.3.2. Off-street automobile storage or parking space shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley, and shall be equal in area to at least the minimum requirements for the following specific land uses.
54.4. Land Uses and Parking Requirements (C-1 CBD).
(1) Restaurants, including cafes, grills, lunch counters and all similar dining establishments - One (1) space for each six (6) seats provided for patron use plus one (1) space for each 100 square feet of floor area provided for patron use but not containing seats.
(2) Office buildings, including banks, business commercial, and professional offices and buildings, but excluding medical, dental and health offices and clinics - One (1) space for each 300 square feet of ground floor area plus one (1) space for each 500 square feet of upper floor area.
(3) General businesses, commercial or personal service establishments catering to the retail trade, but excluding food stores - One (1) space for each 400 square feet of floor area designated for retail sales only.
(4) Government offices - One (1) space for each 500 square feet of gross area and one (1) space for each governmental vehicle.
54.5. Site Requirements. All off-street parking shall be laid out, constructed, and maintained in accordance with the following requirements:
54.5.1. All such parking areas shall be hard surfaced with concrete or plant bituminous material and shall be maintained in dust-proof condition and that a good stand of grass be maintained on the remainder of the lot.
54.5.2. Lighting facilities shall be so arranged that light is reflected away from adjacent properties.
54.5.3. The parking lot shall be adequately drained.
54.5.4. Along the lot lines of the parking area which abut residential districts, a dense planting of trees and shrubs shall be established on strip of land not less than eight (8) feet in width adjacent to the districts, and provided that such planting be not less than six (6) feet in height and a substantial bumper rail of wood, metal or concrete shall be installed on the inside of the planting strip.
54.5.5. A raised curb of at least six (6) inches shall be erected along all of the property lines, except for driveway openings, and those lot lines abutting residential districts where the requirements in Section 54.5.4 shall prevail.
54.5.6. No sign, or other such objects whether permanent or temporary, shall be placed within the public right-of-way. Signs and planting strips shall be arranged so that they do not obstruct visibility for drivers or pedestrians.
(Amend. of 7-23-2007; Ord. No. 2014-03, 3-31-2014; Ord. No. 2017-09 , 10-23-2017; Ord. No. 2022-09 , 6-13-2022)
Sec. 55. - Off-street loading and unloading space.
Off-street loading and unloading spaces shall be provided as hereinafter required by this Ordinance.
55.1. Size of Off-Street Loading Spaces. Each off-street loading space shall have minimum dimensions of 14 feet in height, 12 feet in width, and 55 feet in length; however, upon sufficient demonstration that a particular loading space will be used exclusively by shorter trucks, the Planning Commission may reduce the minimum length accordingly to as little as 35 feet.
55.2. Connection to Street or Alley. Each required off-street loading space shall have direct access to a street or alley or have a driveway which offers satisfactory ingress and egress for trucks.
55.3. Floor Area Over 10,000 Square Feet. There shall be provided for each hospital, institution, hotel, commercial or industrial building or similar use requiring the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise, and having a floor area of more than 10,000 square feet, at least one (1) off-street loading space for each 10,000 square feet of floor space or fraction thereof. Such space shall be so located as not to hinder the free movement of pedestrians and vehicles over a sidewalk, street or alley.
55.4. Floor Area Less than 10,000 Square Feet. There shall be provided for each commercial or industrial building requiring the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise and having a floor area of less than 10,000 square feet, sufficient off-street loading space (not necessarily a full space if shared by an adjacent establishment) so located as not to hinder the free movement of pedestrians and vehicles over a sidewalk, street or alley.
55.5. Bus and Trucking Terminals. There shall be provided sufficient space to accommodate the maximum number of buses or trucks to be stored or to be loaded at the terminal at any one time.
55.6. Location of Off-Street Loading Spaces. All required off-street loading spaces shall be located on the same lot as the building which they are intended to serve, or on an adjacent lot when shared with the use occupying said adjacent lot.
55.7. Permanent Reservation. Area reserved for off-street loading in accordance with the requirements of this Ordinance shall not be reduced in area or changed to any other use unless the permitted use which is served is discontinued or modified, except where equivalent loading space is provided and approved by the Planning Commission.
Sec. 56. - Control of curb cuts and vision clearance.
The requirements for controlling curb cuts and maintaining vision clearance shall be as follows:
56.1. Curb Cuts. No curb cut shall exceed fifty (50) feet in length, nor shall curb cuts be closer than twenty (20) feet to other curb cuts or closer than twenty (20) feet to an intersection of two (2) streets measured along the curb line. Curb cuts along State rights-ofway shall meet current Department of Transportation standards.
56.2. Vision Clearance. In all districts except C-1, Central Business District (CBD), no fence, wall, shrubbery, sign, marquee or other obstruction to vision may be placed on the property line right-of-way within twenty-five (25) feet of any street or a street intersection with a railroad line. Existing trees and landscaping may be permitted on the property line up to the right-of-way provided all obstructions to vision are removed between two and one-half (2½) and fifteen (15) feet from the ground.
(Amend. of 7-23-2007)
Sec. 57. - Classification of streets.
All streets in the City of Kingsland, Georgia are hereby divided into seven (7) classes as shown on the Official Street Map adopted by the council and on record in the office of the Director of Community Planning and Development.
57.1. Freeways are those streets which are used primarily for fast or heavy through traffic; and which are divided with full control of access and with no crossing at grade.
57.2. Expressways are those highways or streets which are used primarily for fast or heavy through traffic; and which are divided with full or partial control of access and generally with grade separations at intersections.
57.3. Arterial Streets and Highways are those which are used primarily for fast or heavy through traffic.
57.4. Collector Streets are those which carry traffic from minor streets to the major system of freeways, expressways, and arterial streets and highways.
57.5. Minor or Local Residential Streets, including cul-de-sacs, are those which are used primarily for access to the abutting properties.
57.6. Minor or Local Commercial and Industrial Streets are those which are primarily for access to the abutting commercial and industrial properties.
57.7. Alleys are those which are used primarily for vehicular service access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
Sec. 58. - Storage and parking of trailers and commercial vehicles.
Commercial vehicles and trailers of all types, including travel, boat, camping and hauling, shall not be parked or stored on any lot occupied by a dwelling or any lot in any residential district except in accordance with the following requirements:
58.1. No more than one (1) commercial vehicle per dwelling shall be permitted, the size of which shall be no larger in size than a pick-up truck, panel truck or van and is limited in size to a one-ton carrying capacity; and in no case shall a commercial vehicle used for hauling explosives, gasoline or liquefied petroleum products be permitted.
58.2. Travel trailer, hauling trailers, or boat trailers shall be permitted if parked or stored behind the front yard building line.
58.3. A travel trailer shall not be occupied either temporarily or permanently while it is parked or stored in any area except in a travel park authorized under this Ordinance.
Sec. 59. - Screening and lighting.
59.1. In any commercial or industrial district, any operation not conducted within a building, such as drive-in businesses, outdoor recreation, outdoor storage of materials, and outdoor servicing activities, shall be enclosed by a wall or fence of solid appearance or tight evergreen hedge not less than six (6) feet in height where necessary to conceal such areas or facilities from a residential district adjoining or facing across a street in the rear or on the side of the principal building or use.
59.2. In any district where reference is made requiring adequate screening or buffering of a specified operation, such screen or buffer shall be a wall or fence of uniform material, solid in appearance or tight evergreen hedge not less than six (6) feet in height, as may be required by Kingsland Planning Commission.
59.3. Outdoor lighting of all types shall be directed so as to reflect away from all residential dwellings, and shall be so situated as not to reflect directly into any public right-of-way.
59.4. Minimum Distance Between Buildings.
The following minimum distances between buildings shall be required unless otherwise specified within this Ordinance.
59.4.1. The minimum distance between main building located on the same lot or parcel shall be:
Front to rear arrangement .....50 feet
Front to front arrangement .....40 feet
Rear to rear arrangement .....30 feet
Side to side arrangement .....20 feet
All other combinations .....20 feet
59.4.2. There shall be a distance of not less than ten (10) feet between a main and an accessory building located on the same lot or parcel.
(Amend. of 7-23-2007; Ord. No. 2008-05, 3-10-2008)
