Subpart B - RELATED LAWS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— This subpart B contains local constitutional amendments and state laws of local application that apply to the city but are not incorporated in the city charter. The title, enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision only the current language has been printed. A uniform system of capitalization, punctuation and citation to state statutes has been used. Any material in brackets has been added to clarify the meaning of the text.

ARTICLE I. - KINGSLAND DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1962 Ga. Laws, page 813. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. The section numbers and catchlines in this article have been supplied by the editor.
State Law reference— Downtown development authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-3 et seq.; city business improvement districts, O.C.G.A. § 36-43-3 et seq.; Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.

Sec. 1. - Created; powers.
A.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in the City of Kingsland in Camden County to be known as the Kingsland Development Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of the City of Kingsland and a public corporation and which in this amendment is hereafter referred to as the "authority."
B.
The authority shall consist of five members who shall serve for a term of five years and who shall be eligible for reappointment. The members shall be appointed by the mayor and council of the City of Kingsland. The first members shall be appointed for terms of one, two, three, four and five years, and thereafter their successors shall be appointed for terms of five years. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by the mayor and council. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum and a majority may act for the authority in any matter. No vacancy shall impair the power of the authority to act. No member shall be mayor nor a member of the council of the City of Kingsland, but there shall be no other disqualification to hold public office by reason of membership in the authority.
C.
The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of the City of Kingsland.
The exemption from taxation herein provided shall not extend to tenants nor lessees of the authority. The right of any private person to use or occupy any real estate of the authority for a period of one year or longer under any lease or other agreement for the purposes of taxation shall be classed as an interest in the real estate and as real property and shall be taxed as real property as now provided by law, or may be taxed as the General Assembly may hereafter provide by general or local law. The tax exemption herein provided also shall not include exemption from sale and use taxes on property purchased by the authority or for use of the authority.
D.
The powers of the authority shall include but not be limited to, the power:
(1)
To buy, acquire, develop, improve, own, operate, maintain, sell, lease as lessor and lessee, and mortgage land, buildings and property of all kinds within the City of Kingsland and also without the City of Kingsland, but not beyond the limits of Camden County;
(2)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts;
(3)
To grant, loan and lease without adequate consideration or without any consideration and with and without security, any of its funds and property to private persons and corporations operating or proposing to operate any industrial plant or establishment within the City of Kingsland or at any place within Camden County sufficiently close to the City of Kingsland to be of benefit to the people of the city in the judgment of the authority. The provisions of this clause shall not be construed to limit any other power of the authority;
(4)
To borrow money and to issue notes, bonds and revenue certificates therefor and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor;
(5)
To contract with the City of Kingsland and other political subdivisions and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
(6)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporations except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the authority;
(7)
To encourage and promote the expansion of industry, agriculture, trade, commerce and recreation in the City of Kingsland and in Camden County, and to make long range plans therefor;
(8)
To exercise such other powers and duties as may be delegated to it by the mayor and council of the City of Kingsland;
(9)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(10)
To designate officers to sign and act for the authority generally or in any specific matter;
(11)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the authority as herein stated.
E.
The authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against the City of Kingsland, the State of Georgia, nor Camden County.
F.
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the State of Georgia and the officers, agents and employees of the authority when in performance of the work of the authority, shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of the State of Georgia when in performance of their public duties or work of the state. The authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligation of the authority.
G.
The members of the authority shall receive only such compensation for their services to the authority as shall be authorized by the mayor and council of the City of Kingsland but such compensation shall be paid from funds of the authority.
H.
The City of Kingsland, in its sole discretion, is authorized, upon due and lawful passage and adoption of an ordinance, to levy an annual tax, not to exceed one mill, on all taxable property within the city for the support of the authority and for its use and purposes, and all funds raised by such tax shall be paid and appropriated by the City of Kingsland to the authority and when paid to the authority, shall become a part of its funds and may be used by it for any of its purposes and powers as herein stated or as may be hereafter provided by law, which tax shall be in addition to all other taxes authorized by law.
I.
In order to finance any undertaking within the scope of its power or to refund any bonds then outstanding, the authority is hereby authorized to issue bonds bearing rate or rates of interest and maturing at the years and amounts determined by the authority and the procedure of validation, issuance and delivery shall be in all respects in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. L. 1937, p. 761) as amended, Ga. Code Ann. Supp. chapter 87-8, as if said obligations had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder; provided, however, that any property, real or personal, of the authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered as security for any lawful debt of the authority. The authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture not in conflict with the provisions of this amendment to provide security for any bonds issued as provided herein, and such trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or under any term or condition under which such bonds are issued. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to authorize said authority to issue any bonds resulting in the creation of a lien against the tax digest of the City of Kingsland or any property located therein.
J.
The property of the authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process except such property, income or funds as may be pledged, assigned, mortgaged or conveyed to secure an obligation of the authority, and any such property, funds or income may be sold under legal process or under any power granted by the authority to enforce payment of the obligation.
K.
This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare of the City of Kingsland and its citizens, industry, agriculture, trade, commerce and recreation within the City of Kingsland and in Camden County, and making of long range plans for such development and expansion and to authorize the use of public funds of the City of Kingsland for such purposes, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of this purpose.
L.
This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the governor and the first members of the authority shall be appointed within 30 days after such proclamation.
M.
The General Assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the authority. The authority shall be an instrumentality of the City of Kingsland with power to extend its operations outside of the City of Kingsland but not beyond the limits of Camden County as herein provided, and the scope of its operations shall be limited to the territory embraced within Camden County and the City of Kingsland. The General Assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the authority nor the scope of its operations beyond the limits of the City of Kingsland and Camden County.
N.
There shall be no limitation upon the amount of debt which the authority may incur, but no debt created by the authority shall be a debt of the City of Kingsland, State of Georgia, nor Camden County.
Sec. 2. - Continuation.
That constitutional amendment which was proposed by Resolution Act No. 152 (House Resolution No. 415-859) of the 1962 General Assembly (Ga. L. 1962, p. 813) and which was duly ratified at the 1962 general election and which relates to creating the Kingsland development authority and providing for its powers, authority, funds, purposes, and procedures shall not be repealed or deleted on July 1, 1987, as a part of the constitution of the State of Georgia but is specifically continued in force and effect on and after that date as a part of the constitution of the State of Georgia.
(1986 Ga. Laws, p. 4365)
ARTICLE II. - KINGSLAND AREA CONVENTION AND VISITORS' BUREAU AUTHORITY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1991 Ga. Laws, page 4101. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. The section catchlines in this article have been supplied by the editor. The section numbers are those used in the original act.

Sec. 1. - Title.
This act shall be known and may be cited as the "Kingsland Area Convention and Visitors Bureau Authority Act."
Sec. 2. - Membership; compensation of members.
(a)
The Kingsland area convention and visitors bureau authority shall consist of five members who shall be at least 18 years of age and residents of the City of Kingsland or either an owner or employee of a business within the city. The mayor and each city councilperson shall appoint one member of the authority who shall serve for the time served by the councilperson or mayor who appointed them. Initially, all members shall serve for the remaining time of the councilperson or mayor so appointing. New appointments shall be made when there is a new mayor or city councilperson elected or at the beginning of a new term of a mayor or city councilperson. Appointment of the members of the authority shall be made within 30 days of the date the councilperson or mayor takes office or within 30 days of the first meeting of the mayor and city council in January.
(b)
Any member can be removed by a majority vote of the mayor and entire council, with the mayor having the right to vote on the question of removal.
(c)
All the members of the authority shall serve without compensation; provided, however, the city council may reimburse authority members for reasonable expenses incurred in connection with their service as authority members.
Sec. 3. - Officers.
The authority shall elect a chairman, vice-chairman, and secretary-treasurer from its membership. Officers shall be elected on a calendar year basis but may be reelected for succeeding terms. The chairman shall be entitled to vote on all issues.
Sec. 4. - Executive director and other employees.
The authority shall have the power to employ an executive director as may be necessary in the operation of the authority's activities, to whom in turn shall be delegated the authority and responsibility necessary to properly administer the business of the authority and its agencies created in this act or at a later date, within policies set by the authority and subject to its review. The executive director shall have full charge of the offices and also all of the employees, and the executive director shall have authority to recommend to the authority the hiring and termination of the employees. The authority shall have the authority to establish salaries and compensation for said executive director and all of the employees.
Sec. 5. - Meetings; voting.
(a)
The authority shall meet at such times as may be necessary to transact the business coming before it. Meetings of the authority shall be open to the public in accordance with the laws of this state. Written minutes of all meetings shall be kept; and within ten days of every meeting, a copy of the minutes shall be furnished to the mayor and council. Meetings shall be conducted in accordance with Robert's Rules of Order.
(b)
At least three regular members of the authority shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, including election of officers. The majority of the votes cast shall determine all questions and elections.
Sec. 6. - Duties.
(a)
The duties of the authority shall be to:
(1)
Promote tourism, trade, and conventions for the City of Kingsland;
(2)
Study, investigate, and develop plans for improving tourism in the City of Kingsland and the area and doing such things as tend to bring visitors and conventions into the city;
(3)
Advise and recommend plans to the city council and departments of the city for the development of tourism in the city; and
(4)
Otherwise promote public interest in the general improvement of tourism in the city.
(b)
Nothing in this act shall be construed to abridge or change the powers and duties of other authorities, departments, boards, and like agencies of the city.
Sec. 7. - Powers.
(a)
The authority shall have all powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions of this act, including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power:
(1)
To sue and be sued in contract and in tort and to complain and defend in all courts;
(2)
To adopt and alter a corporate seal;
(3)
To acquire in its own name real property or rights and easements therein and franchises and personal property necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by gift, grant, lease, or otherwise; to insure the same against any and all risk as such insurance may, from time to time, be available; and to use such property, rent or lease the same to or from others, make contracts with respect to the use thereof, or sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of any such property in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority and the purposes thereof. Title to any such property of the authority shall be held by the authority exclusively for the benefit of the public;
(4)
To exercise any one or more of the powers, rights, and privileges conferred by this act either alone or jointly or in common with one or more other parties, whether public or private. In any such exercise of such powers, rights, and privileges jointly or in common with others with respect to the construction, operation, and maintenance of projects, the authority may own an undivided interest in such projects with any other parties, whether public or private. The authority may enter into agreements with respect to any project with the other parties participating therein, and any such agreement may contain such terms, conditions, and provisions consistent with this act as the parties thereto may deem to be in their best interest;
(5)
To make and execute contracts, agreements, and other instruments necessary or convenient to exercise the powers of the authority or to further the public purpose for which the authority is created;
(6)
To borrow money to further or carry out its public purpose and to execute notes, other obligations, leases, loan agreements, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds, security agreements, assignments, and such other agreements or instruments as may be necessary or desirable in the judgment of the authority to evidence and to provide security for such borrowing;
(7)
To make application directly or indirectly to any federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency or to any other source, whether public or private, for loans, grants, guarantees, or other financial assistance in furtherance of the authority's public purpose and to accept and use the same upon such terms and conditions as are prescribed by such federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency or other source;
(8)
To enter into agreements with the federal government, state government, or any agency thereof to use the facilities or services of the federal government, state government, or any agency thereof in order to further or carry out the public purposes of the authority;
(9)
Subject to proper appropriation to the authority, to receive and use the proceeds of any tax levied by a political subdivision or taxing district of the state to pay the cost of any project or for any other purpose for which the authority may use its own funds pursuant to this act;
(10)
To accept donations and appropriations of money, services, products, property, and facilities for expenditure and use by the authority for the accomplishment of its purpose;
(11)
To adopt bylaws governing the conduct of business by the authority, the election and duties of officers of the authority, and other matters which the authority determines to include in its bylaws;
(12)
To invest any accumulation of its funds in any manner that public funds of the state or its political subdivisions may be invested; and
(13)
To do any and all things necessary or proper for the accomplishment of the objectives of this act and to exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions which is not in conflict with the public purpose of the authority or the constitution and laws of this state.
(b)
The powers enumerated in each paragraph of subsection (a) of this section are cumulative of and in addition to those powers enumerated in the other paragraphs of subsection (a) of this section and elsewhere in this act; and no such power limits or restricts any other power of the authority.
Sec. 8. - Exemption from taxes.
The properties of the authority, both real and personal, are declared to be public properties used for the benefit and welfare of the people of the City of Kingsland, and not for purposes of private or corporate benefit and income, and such properties, to the extent of the authority's ownership therein, the authority, all income and obligations of the authority, and all transfers of such property shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of the state or any city, county, or other political subdivision thereof. The authority shall have all of the exemptions and exclusions from taxes which are now granted to cities and counties for the operation of properties or facilities similar to the properties and facilities to be owned and operated, or both, by the authority.
Sec. 9. - Liability for obligations.
Neither the members of the authority nor any person executing notes or obligations on behalf of the authority shall be personally liable thereon by reason of said execution.
Sec. 10. - Funding.
The authority shall submit an annual budget request to the mayor and council of the City of Kingsland which, upon approval by the council, may in the discretion of the council be funded from the revenue received by the city from the hotel-motel tax, provided the authority complies with any provisions relative to the expenditure of said revenue contained in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-3 as now or hereafter in effect and any other criteria deemed proper by the mayor and council.
Code reference—Excise tax on rooms and lodging, § 20-60.
Sec. 11. - Examination of property and accounts.
The mayor and council of the City of Kingsland shall be authorized, by and through a committee of their own number, or by any person they may select, to inspect at their pleasure, the state and condition of the authority and the property thereto belonging, and also all books and accounts pertaining to the affairs of the authority, and the authority shall give and furnish them any reasonable facility and assistance in making such inspections.
Sec. 12. - Creation of obligations against city.
The Kingsland area convention and visitors bureau shall not have the power or authority to bind the City of Kingsland by any contract, agreement, financial obligation, or indebtedness or otherwise. No contract, agreement, financial obligation, or indebtedness incurred by the authority shall ever be a claim or charge against the city.
ARTICLE III. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1992 Ga. Laws, page 5686. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Grant of exemption.
(a)
Senior Citizen's Homestead Exemption. Each resident of the City of Kingsland who is 65 years of age or older and who otherwise meet the qualifications and criterion specified in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40 and O.C.G.A. 48-5-47(b) shall be entitled to a senior citizen's homestead ad valorem taxation exemption upon the terms and conditions as set forth in the afore-cited Section of the Official Code of Georgia.
The exemption provided by this act shall not exceed $25,000.00. For purposes of this act, gross income verification and income minimums shall not be required. The value of all property in excess of such exemption granted shall remain subject to taxation.
(b)
Disabled Veteran's Homestead Exemption. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-48 any disabled veteran meeting the definition, qualifications, and criterion set forth therein shall be entitled to the homestead exemption from municipal ad valorem taxation upon the terms, conditions, and requirements set forth in such Section of the Official Code of Georgia.
The exemption provided by this act shall not exceed $25,000.00. For purposes of this act, any disabled veteran who was discharged under honorable conditions and qualifying for the homestead exemption shall file with the governing authority of the City of Kingsland or its designee, a copy of his DD Form 214 (discharge papers from his military records), along with a letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs, or a physician licensed to practice medicine, stating the qualifying disability. The value of all property in excess of such exemption granted shall remain subject to taxation.
(1992 Ga. Laws, page 5686; Ord. No. 2001-08, § 1, 5-14-2001)
Sec. 2. - Application.
The governing authority of the City of Kingsland or its designee shall provide application forms for the exemption granted by this act and shall require with the initial application, such other information as may be necessary to determine the eligibility of the owner for the exemption. All new exemption applications must be submitted to the City of Kingsland on or before August 1 of the tax year that applicants are eligible in order to take effect for the current tax year.
(1992 Ga. Laws, page 5686; Ord. No. 2001-08, § 1, 5-14-2001; Ord. No. 2002-09, § 1, 8-12-2002)
Sec. 3. - Renewals.
After any property owner has filed the proper application and has been granted the exemption provided in this act, the exemption shall be automatically renewed from year to year as long as the owner claims the residence as a homestead. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption, to notify the governing authority of the City of Kingsland or its designee in the event the property becomes ineligible for such exemption.
(1992 Ga. Laws, page 5686; Ord. No. 2001-08, § 1, 5-14-2001)
Sec. 4. - Status relative to other homestead exemptions.
The exemption granted by this act shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any other homestead exemption from the City of Kingsland ad valorem taxes.
(1992 Ga. Laws, page 5686)
Sec. 5. - Date of commencement.
The exemption granted by this act shall apply to all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1993.
(1992 Ga. Laws, page 5686)
Sec. 6. - Status relative to county and state taxes.
The exemption granted by this act shall not apply to or affect any county taxes for county purposes, county school district taxes for educational purposes, or state taxes.
(1992 Ga. Laws, page 5686)
