ARTICLE XXII. - COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

Sec. 220. - Enforcement.
220.1 The enforcement of the provisions of this Ordinance shall be the responsibility of the Director of Community Planning and Development. The Director of Community Planning and Development may cause any building, structure, place, or premises to be inspected and examined and to order the remedying of any condition found to exist in violation of any provision of this Ordinance. Upon failure of any person, firm, or corporation to immediately remedy any such violation, the Director of Community Planning and Development may initiate proceedings pursuant to Article XXIV of this Ordinance. In the case of repeated violations of this resolution by any person, firm, or corporation, the Director of Community Planning and Development may initiate such proceedings without first providing such person, firm, or corporation an opportunity to remedy the situation.
220.1.1. The Director of Community Planning and Development shall not have the authority to take final action on applications or matters involving variances, non-conforming uses, or other exceptions which this Ordinance has reserved for public hearings before the Planning Commission and/or the Council.
220.1.2. The Director of Community Planning and Development may approve plats of proposed subdivisions where said plat is in conformity with Article XV and XVI of this Ordinance.
220.1.3. The Director of Community Planning and Development shall keep records of all and any Permits, Certificates of Occupancy issued, and all submitted subdivision plats, with notations of all special conditions involved. He shall file and safely keep copies of all sketches and plans submitted, and the same shall form a part of the records of his office and shall be made as a public record.
(Amend. of 7-23-2007)
Sec. 221. - Permits and certificates.
Permits and Certificates shall be issued in accordance with the following provisions:
221.1 Zoning Compliance Permit. The Director of Community Planning and Development shall issue a Zoning Compliance Permit, which may be incorporated into the Building Permit issued under the Building Code adopted by the Council, for any permitted use of land or structural alteration provided such proposed use of land or structure, or structural alteration is in conformance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
221.1.1. An application shall be accompanied by two (2) copies of a dimensional sketch or a to-scale plan signed by the owner, or his authorized agent, to include, as a minimum the following: lot dimensions with property line monuments located thereon; shape, size, height and location of the buildings proposed to be erected, demolished, altered, or moved, and or any building already on the lot; yard dimensions and the use of structures, including the number of dwelling units within each structure where appropriate; easements (private and public); watercourses; fences; street names and street right-of-way lines; and such other information regarding abutting property as directly affects the application.
221.1.2. Each permit shall be conspicuously posted and displayed on the premises described in the permit during the period of construction or reconstruction.
221.1.3. If the proposed excavation, filling, construction, or movement set forth in said sketch or plan are in conformity with the provision of this Ordinance and other appropriate codes and ordinances of the Council then in effect, the Director of Community Planning and Development shall sign and return one (1) copy of the sketch plan to the applicant and shall issue a Zoning Compliance Permit. The Director of Community Planning and Development shall retain one (1) copy of the Zoning Compliance Permit and one (1) copy of the sketch or plan for his records.
221.1.4. If the sketch or plan submitted describes work which does not conform to the requirements of this Ordinance, the Director of Community Planning and Development shall not issue a Zoning Compliance Permit, but shall within 30 days return one (1) copy of the sketch or plan to the applicant along with a signed refusal in writing. Such refusal shall state the reasons for refusal and shall cite the portions of this Ordinance with which the submitted sketch plan does not comply. The Director of Community Planning and Development shall retain one (1) copy of the sketch plan and two (2) copies of the refusal.
221.1.5. Any Zoning Compliance Permit shall automatically expire six (6) months from the date of issuance if the person, firm, or corporation to which the certificate or permit was issued has not clearly demonstrated that the permit is being exercised for the purpose for which it was issued, or if the work so authorized is suspended or discontinued for a period of one (1) year.
Sec. 222. - Certificate of occupancy.
Certificates of Occupancy shall be issued by the Director of Community Planning and Development in accordance with the following provisions:
222.1. Certificate of Occupancy Required. A Certificate of Occupancy shall be required in advance of occupancy or use of:
(1) A building hereafter erected;
(2) A building hereafter altered so as to effect height, or side, front or rear yards;
(3) A change of type of occupancy or use of any building on premises.
222.2. Issuance of Certificate of Occupancy. The Director of Community of Planning and Development shall sign and issue a Certificate of Occupancy if the proposed use of land or building, as stated on the application for such certificate and signed thereto by the owner or his appointed agent, is found to conform to the applicable provisions of this Ordinance and the building, as finally constructed, complies with the sketch or plan submitted for the Zoning Compliance Permit.
222.3. Denial of Certificate of Occupancy. A Certificate of Occupancy shall not be issued unless the proposed use of a building or land conforms to the applicable provisions of this Ordinance, or unless the building, as finally constructed, complies with the sketch plan upon which the Zoning Compliance Permit was issued.
