ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Elections, Ch. 6.

Sec. 2-26. - Regular meetings.
The city council shall hold regular meetings on the second and fourth Mondays of each month at city hall. The meeting on the second Monday and the fourth Monday shall begin at 6:00 p.m.
(Code 1968, § 1-201; Ord. No. 2001-06, § 1, 5-14-2001)
State Law reference— Requirement to prescribe the time, place and dates of regular meetings of city council, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
Sec. 2-27. - Special meetings.
The mayor shall call special meetings of the council whenever in his opinion the public business may require it. Special meetings may also be called at the express request of any member of the council.
(Code 1968, § 1-202)
State Law reference— Meetings to be open to public, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1; due notice requirements for other than regular meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d); excluded proceedings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-3.
Sec. 2-28. - Agenda.
All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions, contract documents or other matters to be submitted to the council shall be delivered to the city clerk on the Wednesday preceding the next Monday meeting, whereupon the city clerk shall immediately arrange a list of such matters according to the order of business and furnish each member of the council, the mayor and the city attorney with a copy of the list prior to the council meeting and as far in advance of the meeting as time for preparation will permit. None of such matters shall be otherwise presented to the council by administrative officials except those matters of an urgent nature, and such emergency matters, when so presented, shall have the written approval of the mayor before presentation.
(Code 1968, § 1-203)
Sec. 2-29. - Presiding officer.
The presiding officer of the council shall be the mayor, who shall take office every four years at the first meeting in January following the election, having been first elected by the duly qualified voters of the city at the regular city election in December. The presiding officer shall preserve strict order and decorum at all regular and special meetings of the council. He shall state every question coming before the council, announce the decision of the council on all subjects and decide all questions of order, subject, however, to an appeal to the council, in which event a majority vote of the council shall govern and conclusively determine such question of order.
(Code 1968, § 1-204)
Sec. 2-30. - Call to order.
The mayor, or in his absence the mayor pro tempore, shall take the chair precisely at the hour appointed for the meeting, and shall immediately call the council to order. In the absence of the mayor or mayor pro tempore, the city clerk shall call the council to order, whereupon a temporary chairman shall be elected by the members of the council present. Upon the arrival of the mayor or mayor pro tempore, the temporary chairman shall immediately relinquish the chair upon the conclusion of the business immediately before the council.
(Code 1968, § 1-205)
Sec. 2-31. - Roll call.
Before proceeding with the business of the council, the city clerk or deputy city clerk shall call the roll of the members and all city officials required to be present, and the names of those present shall be entered in the minutes.
(Code 1968, § 1-206)
Sec. 2-32. - Quorum.
A majority of all the members elected to the council shall constitute a quorum at any regular or special meeting of the council. In the absence of a quorum, the presiding officer, shall, at the instance of any three members present, compel the attendance of absent members.
(Code 1968, § 1-207)
Sec. 2-33. - Attendance at meetings.
Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the members of the council, chief administrative officer, city clerk and mayor shall take their regular stations in the council chambers, and the business of the council shall be taken up for consideration. The city attorney, city engineer and city fiscal agent shall attend council meetings when requested to do so by the council.
(Code 1968, § 1-208)
Sec. 2-34. - Reading of minutes.
Unless a reading of the minutes of a council meeting is requested by a member of the council, such minutes may be approved without reading if the clerk has previously furnished each member with a copy thereof.
(Code 1968, § 1-209)
Sec. 2-35. - Rules of procedure.
Except as otherwise provided by this Code, the procedure of the council shall be governed by Robert's Rules of Order.
(Code 1968, § 1-210)
Sec. 2-36. - Addressing the council.
(a)
Generally. Any person desiring to address the council shall first secure the permission of the presiding officer so to do; provided, however, that, under the following headings of business, unless the presiding officer rules otherwise, any qualified person may address the council without securing such prior permission:
(1)
Written communications. Interested parties or their authorized representatives may address the council by written communications in regard to matters then under discussion.
(2)
Oral communications. Taxpayers or residents of the city, or their authorized legal representatives, may address the council by oral communications on any matter concerning the city's business, or any matter over which the council has control; provided, however, that preference shall be given to those persons who have notified the city clerk in advance of their desire to speak in order that the communication may appear on the agenda of the council.
(3)
Reading of protests, petitions, etc. Interested persons or their authorized representatives may address the council by the reading of protests, petitions or communications relating to zoning, sewer and street proceedings, hearings on protests, appeals and petitions or similar matters, in regard to matters then under consideration.
(b)
Addressing council after motion has been made. After a motion is made by the council, no person shall address the council without first securing the permission of the council so to do.
(c)
Manner of addressing council; time limit. All remarks shall be addressed to the council as a body and not to any member thereof. No person, other than the councilmembers and the person having the floor, shall be permitted to enter into any discussion, either directly or through a member of the council, without the permission of the presiding officer. No question shall be asked a councilmember except through the presiding officer.
(Code 1968, §§ 1-211—1-213)
Sec. 2-37. - Silence to constitute affirmative vote.
Unless a member of the council states that he is not voting, his silence shall be recorded as an affirmative vote.
(Code 1968, § 1-214)
Sec. 2-38. - Decorum.
(a)
Standards of conduct.
(1)
Councilmembers. While the council is in session, the members must preserve order and decorum, and no member shall, by conversation or otherwise, delay or interrupt the proceedings or the peace of the council, or disturb any member while speaking, or refuse to obey the orders of the council or its presiding officer, except as otherwise provided in this article.
(2)
Persons addressing council. Any person making personal, impertinent or slanderous remarks or who shall become boisterous while addressing the council shall be forthwith, by the presiding officer, barred from further audience before the council, unless permission to continue is granted by a majority vote of the council.
(b)
Enforcement of decorum. The chief of police, or such member of the police department as he may designate, shall be sergeant at arms of the council meetings. He shall carry out all orders and instructions given by the presiding officer for the purpose of maintaining order and decorum at the council meeting. Upon instructions of the presiding officer, it shall be the duty of the sergeant at arms to place any person who violates the order and decorum of the meeting under arrest and remove such person from the meeting place.
(Code 1968, §§ 1-215, 1-216)
Sec. 2-39. - Appointment of special committees.
All special committees shall be appointed by the presiding officer, unless otherwise directed by the council.
(Code 1968, § 1-217)
Sec. 2-40. - Standing committees.
The only standing committee of the council shall be the committee of the whole. The president of the council shall be the presiding officer of the committee of the whole, and the rules of proceedings of the council shall be observed in the committee of the whole as far as the rules may be applicable.
(Code 1968, § 1-218)
Sec. 2-41. - Filing of protests.
Any member of the council shall have the right to have reasons for his dissent from, or protest against, any action of the council entered on the minutes.
(Code 1968, § 1-219)
Sec. 2-42. - Ordinances, resolutions and contracts.
(a)
Preparation of ordinances. All ordinances shall be prepared by the city attorney. No ordinances shall be prepared for presentation to the council unless ordered by the mayor or prepared by the city attorney on his own initiative.
(b)
Approval by administrative staff. All ordinances, resolutions and contract documents shall, before presentation to the council, have been approved as to form and legality by the city attorney or his authorized representative, and shall have been examined and approved for administration by the mayor or his authorized representative where there are substantive matters of administration involved. All such instruments shall have first been referred to the head of the department under whose jurisdiction the administration of the subject matter of the ordinance, resolution or contract document would devolve and shall have been approved by the department head. If approval is not given, then the instrument shall be returned to the mayor with a written memorandum of the reasons why such approval is withheld. If the questioned instrument is not redrafted to meet a department head objection, or objection is not withdrawn and approval in writing given, then the mayor shall so advise the council and give the reasons advanced by the department head for withholding approval.
(c)
Introduction; sponsorship. Ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects requiring action by the council must be introduced and sponsored by a member of the council; except that the mayor or city attorney may present ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects to the council, and any councilmember may assume sponsorship thereof by moving that such ordinance, resolution or other matter or subject be adopted. If not so sponsored, they shall not be considered.
(d)
Date of final passage. No ordinance increasing taxes will be put on its final passage on the same day on which it was introduced.
(e)
Reading and referral to committee. All ordinances concerning increasing taxes shall have two separate readings during regular council sessions. When an ordinance has had a first reading at a regular session and passed it shall then be referred to the committee of the whole or a special committee duly created. When the committee to which an ordinance has been referred shall report such ordinance to the council at a subsequent meeting, the ordinance shall stand for final action in accordance with the report of the committee, notwithstanding that such committee reports an amended or substituted ordinance, provided that such amendment or substitution is germane to the ordinance originally referred to such committee. An ordinance, after reference and report thereon, may be re-referred at any time previous to its final passage.
(f)
Form of ordinances. No ordinance shall relate to more than one subject, which shall be clearly expressed in its title, and no ordinance, or section thereof, shall be amended or repealed unless the new ordinance contains the title of the ordinance or section amended or repealed. When practicable, all ordinances shall be introduced as amendments to existing ordinances or sections thereof.
(Code 1968, § 1-221; Ord. No. 1985-5, 5-13-85)
Secs. 2-43—2-65. - Reserved.
