CHAPTER I. - INCORPORATION AND POWERS
ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION

Section 1-10. - Incorporation.
The City of LaFayette, Georgia, in the County of Walker, and the inhabitants thereof shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the name and style of the City of LaFayette, Georgia. Under the name said City shall continue to be vested with all of the property and rights of property which now belong to the corporation; shall have perpetual succession; may sue and be sued; may contract and be contracted with; may acquire and hold such property, real and personal, as may be devised, bequeathed, sold or in any manner conveyed or dedicated to or otherwise acquired by it, and from time to time may hold or invest, sell or dispose of the same; may have a common seal and alter and renew the same at will; and may exercise in conformity with this Charter all municipal powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities of every name and nature whatsoever.
Section 1-11. - City Boundaries.
The city boundaries of the City of LaFayette shall be as described and set forth in Appendix I hereto, and the City of LaFayette shall include all territory lying within said boundaries.
ARTICLE II. - POWERS OF THE CITY

Section 1-20. - Corporate Powers.
The Government of the City of LaFayette is hereby vested with all powers which municipal corporations are now, or may hereafter be, authorized or required to exercise under the Constitution and Laws of the State of Georgia. In addition thereto the Government of the City of LaFayette, Georgia, shall exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, morals, prosperity and general welfare of the Government of the City and of its inhabitants, and all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein.
Section 1-21. - Additional Corporate Powers.
The Government of the City of LaFayette shall also have all additional corporate powers which are enumerated in all other parts of this Charter, and further in addition to the corporate powers enumerated in Section 1-20 of this Charter, and those corporate powers contained in other parts of this Charter, but without limiting the same in any manner, the Government of the City of LaFayette shall also have the following corporate powers, to wit:
(a)
Property. To acquire, dispose of, lease, and hold in trust or otherwise, any real, personal, or mixed property, inside or outside the City. This power shall be subject to the limitations of any general law of the State of Georgia as now exists or as is duly enacted in the future and is also subject to any other limitations, if any there be, in this Charter. With regard to any lease of real property of the City, no such lease shall have a term which together with the term or terms of any option or options to renew or extend shall exceed a total of [twenty-five] 25 years.
(b)
Condemnation. To condemn property, inside or outside the City, for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the City Government, under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933, and amendments thereto, or under any other applicable general law of the State of Georgia.
(c)
Motor vehicle registration fees. To levy and to provide for the collection of registration fees on automobiles, trucks, and all other motor vehicles of all types whatsoever owned by residents of the City, and also on automobiles, trucks, and all other motor vehicles owned by nonresidents and operated within the City with regularity. Such registration fees on automobiles, trucks, and other motor vehicles may be graduated according to their tonnage capacities, weight or horsepower.
(d)
Public utilities. To regulate the rates and services of public utilities insofar as not in conflict with regulations of the Georgia Public Service Commission or other similar State or Federal Agency having jurisdiction in such matters.
(e)
Sidewalks. To require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition, the sidewalks adjoining their lots or land; and to enact ordinances establishing the terms and conditions under which said repairs and maintenance shall be carried out, including the penalties to be imposed for failure to do so.
(f)
Health and sanitation. To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(g)
Provide for the general welfare. To define, regulate and prohibit any acts, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental, or likely to be detrimental, to the health, morals, safety, security, peace, convenience, or general welfare of inhabitants of the City.
(h)
City prisoners, commitment. To provide that persons given jail sentences in the recorder's court shall work out such sentences in any public works of the City or City Jail as provided by ordinance, and to provide for the commitment of City prisoners to any County Work Camp, or Jail, by agreement with the appropriate County officers.
(i)
Regulate animals and fowl. To regulate and license or prohibit, the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same, in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; also to provide for their disposition by sale, gift or humane killing, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance. The City Government may enter into such contract or agreement with the County, other municipalities, or any agencies or departments thereof which may be necessary or desirable to carry out such powers.
(j)
Regulate vehicles for hire. To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the City; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in amounts prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate and rent parking spaces and public ways for the use of such vehicles insofar as not in conflict with any regulation of the Georgia Public Service Commission or other similar State or Federal Agencies having jurisdiction in such matters.
(k)
Punishment for violations. To provide the punishment to be imposed for violation of any ordinance, rule, regulation or order of the Government of the City of LaFayette.
(l)
Public service corporation structures. To compel any and all public service corporations operating or doing business in said City to remove and replace and readjust at their own expense all tracks, poles, conduits, wires and other appurtenances and structures owned and/or used by them in the prosecution of their business functions, whenever the same may, in the discretion of the City Government, be necessary to carry out any ordinance or plan of the City Government of the City of LaFayette, or to the best interest of the City or its inhabitants.
(m)
Railroad crossings. To require the railroads or street railroads running through said town or any portion thereof to make and repair such public crossings for pedestrians or vehicles over or across their several roads whenever or in such a manner as said City Government may deem necessary; to place or repair such crossings, or to open or keep open any street in said town crossing them, and the City Government may pass any ordinance needful for carrying out the provisions of this Section. And in case any railroad or street railroad shall fail or refuse to make such crossings within fifteen (15) days or to repair the same within twenty-four (24) hours after having been notified to do so by said City, the City Government shall have the power to create and make the same across the railroad or street railroad, and to repair the same at the expense of said railroad or street railroad, and may issue execution therefor, and levy and collect the same as in the case of tax executions.
(n)
Use general funds for advertising the City and for gifts to eleemosynary institutions. To make appropriations and payments from the general funds of the City for the purpose of advertising said City and its advantages and resources so as to bring new capital and commercial and manufacturing and other enterprises into the City and Walker County, and also for making contributions to any Board of Trade or Chamber of Commerce or like body in said City, or in Walker County, Georgia, which may have for its object any of the above stated public purposes, and also to make payment from the general revenues and funds of the City for the support of public hospitals, libraries, charities and other eleemosynary institutions in the City.
(Ga. Laws 1983, p. 4274, ยง 1)
Section 1-22. - Exercise of Power.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance of the Mayor and Council and as provided by the pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
Section 1-23. - Prior Ordinances, Still Valid.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations now in force in the City of LaFayette, not inconsistent with this Charter, are hereby declared valid and of force until amended or repealed by the Mayor and Council.
