CHAPTER VIII. - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Section 8-10. - Initial Election of Mayor, Council and Recorder.
The Mayor, Members of City Council and Recorder in office at the date of adoption of this Act will serve out the term for which they were elected, or appointed, as the case may be, notwithstanding the fact that more than one (1) Councilman may live in one (1) Ward as herein designated and no Councilman may be living in some Ward or Wards as hereinafter designated. Any vacancy occurring in any of said elected offices before the expiration of the terms for which those who are in office at the date of adoption of this Act has expired shall be filled for the remainder of said term by appointment by the Mayor and Council with no Ward residency requirements applying to such appointments.
At the next regular municipal election to be held in the City of LaFayette in 1969 there shall be elected three (3) Councilmen, one (1) from the Third Ward, one (1) from the Fourth Ward, and one (1) from the City at Large, for terms of two (2) years, at the next regular municipal election to be held in the City of LaFayette in 1970 there shall be elected a Mayor, a Recorder, and two (2) Councilmen, one (1) from the First Ward and one (1) from the Second Ward, for terms of two (2) years.
Section 8-11. - Official Bonds.
The officers and employees of the City of LaFayette, both elective and appointive, shall execute such official bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the Mayor and Council may from time to time require.
Section 8-12. - Amending Charter.
Except in the particulars hereinbefore specifically provided for, the terms and provisions of this Charter may be hereinafter modified, rescinded, changed, or amended by:
(a)
The General Assembly of Georgia;
(b)
Any procedure authorized by the laws of Georgia as the same may now or hereafter exist.
Section 8-13. - Existing Ordinances and Regulations.
Existing ordinances and resolutions of the City of LaFayette not inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter shall continue in effect until they have been repealed, modified or amended by the Mayor and Council. Existing rules and regulations of departments or agencies of the City of LaFayette not inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter shall continue in effect until they have been repealed, modified or amended.
Section 8-14. - General Laws May be Used.
The Mayor and Council, in their discretion, may elect to use the provision of any general laws of the State in addition to or instead of the provision of this Charter.
Section 8-15. - Section Captions.
The captions to the several sections of this Charter are informative only and are not intended to be considered as a part thereof.
Section 8-16. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or part thereof of this Charter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair other parts of this Charter, unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part or parts held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this Charter that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or part thereof be enacted separately and independently of each other.
Section 8-17. - Effective Date.
This Charter shall be effective on and after April 30, 1969.
Section 8-18. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
