CHAPTER III. - ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Section 3-10. - Administrative Departments; Creation.
The Mayor and Council shall establish such City Departments, offices or agencies in addition to those created by this Charter as they shall deem necessary to administer the affairs and Government of the City. They shall prescribe the functions and duties of any such departments, offices and agencies created, except that no function assigned by this Charter to a particular department, office or agency may be discontinued or, unless the Charter specifically so provides, assigned to any other.
Charter cross reference—See §§ 2-23(c), 3-11.
Section 3-11. - Consolidation, Transfer and Merger of Departments and Functions.
Except as otherwise provided herein by Section 3-10 of this Charter, the Mayor and Council may abolish, merge or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the City; may provide that the same person shall fill any number of offices and positions of employment and may transfer or change the functions and duties of offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the City.
Charter cross reference—See §§ 2-23(c), 3-10.
ARTICLE II. - CITY MANAGER

Section 3-20. - City Manager Appointment.
The Mayor and Council of the City of LaFayette shall select and appoint a City Manager for the City of LaFayette, who shall, subject to the control, direction and supervision of the Mayor and Council, be the head of the administrative branch of the municipal government of the City of LaFayette and responsible for the efficient administration of all departments of said municipal government. The City Manager shall be chosen solely on the basis of ability, training and experience. At the time of his appointment he need not be a resident of the City or State, but during his tenure of office he shall reside within the City.
Section 3-21. - City Manager; Term; Compensation.
The City Manager shall be appointed for an indefinite term and shall hold office until he shall be removed as provided in this Article. He shall receive such salary and expense allowances as the Mayor and Council shall fix. The Mayor and Council of the City of LaFayette may remove the City Manager at any time within one (1) year after his appointment and qualification at the will of the Mayor and Council, but the City Manager shall not thereafter be removed from office until served with written charges and given a public hearing before the Mayor and Council.
(Ga. Laws 1985, p. 4106, § 7)
Section 3-22. - Acting City Manager.
The Mayor and Council may designate a person or persons to perform the functions and duties of the City Manager during his suspension, absence or disability. Vacancies in the office of City Manager shall be filled by the Mayor and Council as early as practicable, and until such vacancy is filled, the Mayor and Council shall have full authority to make a temporary appointment or to perform the functions and duties of the office.
Section 3-23. - Powers and Responsibilities of City Manager.
The City Manager shall devote such time and attention to the affairs of the City as necessary to perform his duties and shall be responsible to the Mayor and Council for the efficient administration of all of the affairs of the City over which he has jurisdiction.
Subject to the control, direction and supervision of the Mayor and Council, the City Manager shall have power and it shall be his duty:
(1)
To see that all laws and ordinances are enforced;
(2)
To see that the business and affairs of the City are efficiently organized and handled;
(3)
To exercise administrative control over all regular departments, agencies and divisions of the City;
(4)
To recommend to the Mayor and Council for appointment all officers which said Mayor and Council may have authority to appoint. Such appointees shall appoint and remove all subordinate officers and employees in their respective offices and departments with the approval of the City Manager and the City Council. Upon failure of such appointees and/or the City Manager to act in making such appointments and removals, the Mayor and Council shall have full power and authority to act. Nothing herein shall prevent the Mayor and Council from creating, abolishing, consolidating, altering or modifying departments;
(5)
To suspend any City employee including department heads until the next regular meeting of the City Council. It shall be the duty of the City Council at the next regular meeting following the suspension of any City employee by the City Manager to either affirm or reject the action of the City Manager. In the event that the City Council shall affirm the action of the City Manager, such employee shall be considered to have been dismissed from City employment as of the date of his suspension by the City Manager. In the event that the City Council shall reject the action by the City Manager, the City employee shall be reinstated with all the former benefits of his employment, including the right to be paid his regular compensation from the date of his suspension;
(6)
To attend the meetings of the Mayor and Council, with the right to take part in all discussions, but having no vote;
(7)
To recommend to the Mayor and Council for adoption such measures as he may deem necessary or expedient;
(8)
To prepare and submit to the Mayor and Council an annual budget;
(9)
To keep the Mayor and Council fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the City;
(10)
To make and execute all lawful contracts on behalf of the City of LaFayette as to matters within his jurisdiction, except such as may be otherwise provided by law or by ordinance or resolution of the Mayor and Council; provided, however, that no contract, purchase or obligation, involving more than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) shall be valid or binding upon the City until approved by the Mayor and Council, and the City Manager shall in a timely manner notify the Mayor and Council of any contract, purchase or obligation the City Manager approves between ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) and fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00); and provided further that without the approval of the Mayor and Council neither the City Manager nor any other officer or employee shall in any calendar month expend or obligate for any purpose any sum or sums in excess of the monthly budget, or one-twelfth of the annual budget, therefor as fixed by the Mayor and Council, and provided further that no department head of the City of LaFayette shall make any purchase on behalf of the City without a written purchase order signed by the City Manager;
(Ga. Laws 1983, p. 4274, § 4)
(11)
To make to the Mayor and Council monthly written reports showing his acts and doings, the operations of the City, and all City disbursements, purchases, contracts and obligations, such report to be in the form prescribed by the Mayor and Council;
(12)
To perform such other duties as may be required by ordinance or resolution of the Mayor and Council;
(13)
To give bond in the penal sum fixed by the Mayor and Council, with surety approved by the Mayor and Council, payable to the City of LaFayette and its successors and assigns, for the benefit of said City of LaFayette and for the use and benefit of the public, by reason of his default, misfeasance, malfeasance, and/or nonfeasance in the performance of his duties. The premiums for such bond shall be paid by the City of LaFayette.
(Ord. No. 14-4, § 1, 9-8-2014; Ord. No. 22/09, § 1, 6-13-2022)
ARTICLE III. - CITY ATTORNEY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Charter cross reference—See § 2-30 of Charter.

Section 3-30. - City Attorney; Appointment; Qualifications; Term; Compensation.
The Mayor and Council shall appoint a City Attorney who shall be an attorney at law licensed to engage in the practice of law in the Superior Courts and Appellate Courts of the State of Georgia and who shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia and who shall be a resident of Walker County, Georgia, during his tenure. The City Attorney shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and Council and shall receive such compensation as they shall determine.
Section 3-31. - Additional Counsel.
Whenever in the judgment of the Mayor and Council it shall be deemed advisable to employ additional counsel to assist the City Attorney, authority to do so is hereby conferred upon the Mayor and Council. Such additional counsel shall receive such compensation as may be determined by the Mayor and Council. There shall be no residency requirements of said additional counsel.
Section 3-32. - Duties of the City Attorney.
It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to prosecute and defend suits for and against the City; to serve as legal advisor to the Mayor, Councilmen and City Manager and other City Officials, if so directed by the Mayor and Council, with respect to the affairs of the City; to draw all legal documents relating to the affairs of the City when requested to do so; to draw proposed ordinances when requested to do so; to inspect and pass on the legality in form of all agreements, contracts, franchises and other instruments with which the City may be concerned; to attend meetings of the Mayor and Council, and to perform such other duties as may be required of him by virtue of his position as City Attorney by said Mayor and Council.
ARTICLE IV. - ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Charter cross reference—See § 2-50 of Charter.

Section 3-40. - City Clerk.
The Mayor and Council shall appoint an officer who shall be designated as City Clerk who shall perform the duties of the City Clerk and who shall keep a Minute Book of the proceedings of the City Council and maintain in a safe place all records and documents pertaining to the affairs of the City, and to perform such other duties as may be required by law or as the Mayor and Council may direct. Said Clerk shall be the custodian of all official records of the City.
Section 3-41. - Tax Collector.
The Mayor and Council may appoint a tax collector to collect all taxes, licenses, fees and other monies belonging to the City, subject to the provisions of this Charter and ordinances of the City, and the Tax Collector shall diligently comply with and enforce all ordinances of the City of LaFayette and applicable laws of the State of Georgia relating to the collection and sale, foreclosure of taxes.
Section 3-42. - Additional Administrative Officers.
The Mayor and Council may from time to time appoint such additional administrative officers as they may deem necessary for the proper management of the City affairs and to prescribe such duties, functions and compensation for said officers as they see fit.
ARTICLE V. - PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION

Section 3-50. - Position Classification and Pay Plans.
The City Manager shall be responsible for the preparation of a position classification and pay plan for monthly salaried employees which shall be submitted to the Mayor and Council for approval. The Mayor and Council may by ordinance provide that said plans may apply to all employees of the City of LaFayette and to any of its agencies and offices. When a pay plan has been adopted, the Mayor and Council shall not increase nor decrease the salaries of individual employees except by amendment of said pay plan.
Section 3-51. - Personnel Policies.
The Mayor and Council may adopt rules and regulations consistent with this Charter concerning:
(1)
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment;
(2)
The administration of the position classification and pay plan;
(3)
Hours of work; vacation, sick leave, and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, retirement, and the manner in which lay off shall be effected; and
(4)
Such other personnel policies as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of the personnel affairs of the City of LaFayette.
Section 3-52. - Prohibitions.
Neither the City Manager nor any other officer or employee of any department under him shall campaign or solicit votes for or contract any money towards the election or nomination of any person as Mayor or Councilman of the City, except to answer such questions as may be put and that they may desire to answer. Any violation of this Section shall subject the offender to removal from office.
