ARTICLE II. - DEFINITIONS
This Article covers all generally applicable definitions used in this Plan, except for definitions related to service, which are in Article III. Except as otherwise provided in the Employer's Adoption Agreement or any Addendum, the definition of terms contained in this Article II and Article III shall govern the meaning of such terms used in the Adoption Agreement. When the initial letter of a word or phrase is capitalized herein, the meaning of such word or phrase shall be as follows, unless a different meaning is plainly required by the content:

Section 2.01. - Accrued Benefit.
"Accrued Benefit" shall mean, as of any date, the Normal Retirement benefit payable to a Participant at his Normal Retirement Date computed in accordance with the provisions of Article VI and the Adoption Agreement, based upon the Participant's Total Credited Service and his Final Average Earnings (if applicable) as of the date that the Participant's Accrued Benefit is being determined.
Section 2.02. - Actuarial Equivalent.
"Actuarial Equivalent" shall mean a benefit of approximately equal value when computed on the basis of the actuarial assumptions contained in Article XII.
Section 2.03. - Actuary.
"Actuary" shall mean an individual, or firm, appointed or approved by the Board of Trustees to perform actuarial calculations necessary in the funding of the Plan.
Section 2.04. - Addendum.
"Addendum" means any Addendum to an Adoption Agreement entered into by an Adopting Employer.
Section 2.05. - Administrator.
"Administrator" shall mean the Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System or its designee.
Section 2.06. - Adopting Employer.
"Adopting Employer" shall mean an Employer who adopts this Plan through the adoption of the Adoption Agreement.
Section 2.07. - Adoption agreement.
"Adoption Agreement" shall mean the Adoption Agreement adopted by an Adopting Employer, which Adoption Agreement contains certain terms of the Plan, and whenever applicable shall include any Addendum amending provisions of the Adoption Agreement.
Section 2.08. - Applicable Form.
"Applicable Form" shall mean the appropriate form as designated and furnished by the Administrator to make the election or provide the notice required by the Plan. In those circumstances where a written election or consent is not required by the Plan or the Code, the Administrator may prescribe an oral, electronic, or telephonic form in lieu of or in addition to a written form.
Section 2.09. - Board of Trustees or Board.
"Board of Trustees" or "Board" shall mean the Board of Trustees of the Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System.
Section 2.10. - Child.
"Child" or "Children" shall mean any natural or adopted child of the Participant or Terminated Participant, as applicable, who is younger than age twenty-two (22) as of the date of the Participant's or Terminated Participant's death. The term "adopted child" shall include any child who is legally adopted by the Participant and any child who is a member of the Participant's household if placed with the Participant by an authorized placement agency for legal adoption by the Participant. The term "child" does not include a foster child.
Section 2.11. - Code.
"Code" shall mean the internal revenue code of 1986, as applicable to governmental plans, as amended from time to time, and the internal revenue code of 1954, as applicable to governmental plans.
Section 2.12. - Code Section 415(d) Cost of Living Adjustment.
"Code Section 415(d) Cost of Living Adjustment" shall mean the cost of living adjustment prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury under Code Section 415(d) for any applicable year.
Section 2.13. - Contract.
"Contract" shall mean the entire contents of the Ordinance or Resolution adopting this Plan, the Employer's Adoption Agreement, the Master Plan, the GMEBS Trust Agreement, and any amendments made hereafter.
Section 2.14. - Contributions.
"Contributions" shall mean payments made by Employers (and Employees, if applicable) to GMEBS to provide the benefits specified in the Plan.
Section 2.15. - Cost of Living Base Figure.
"Cost of Living Base Figure" shall mean, with respect to Employers who elect in the Adoption Agreement to provide cost-of-living adjustments in benefits received under the Plan, the Consumer Price Index figure (All Urban Consumers Table — All Items, 1982-1984 Base Period) issued by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor for the November prior to the most recent November used to determine the Current Cost-of-Living Index Figure. However, if a Participant or Beneficiary has been drawing benefits for less than twelve (12) months, the Cost-of-Living Base Figure shall mean the Consumer Price Index figure (All Urban Consumers Table — All Items, 1982-1984 Base Period) issued by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor for the month that is two (2) months prior to the month when benefit payments commenced.
Section 2.16. - Covered Compensation A.I.M.E.
"Covered Compensation A.I.M.E." shall mean the portion of the Average Indexed Monthly Earnings (A.I.M.E.), annualized, as defined by the December 1977 amendments to the federal Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (O.A.S.D.I.), not subject to the fifteen percent (15%) benefit rate as defined in the amendments and as adjusted to the year of termination of employment as provided for in said amendments.
Section 2.17. - Covered Compensation Dynamic Break Point.
"Covered Compensation Dynamic Break Point" shall mean, for any calendar year, the average of the maximum amount of earnings for which taxes are payable under the Social Security Act during the period of calendar years: (1) beginning with the later of 1959 or the calendar year thirty-five (35) years before the year for which Social Security Covered Compensation is being computed, and (2) ending with the calendar year preceding the year for which Social Security Compensation is being computed. The amount of Covered Compensation for a Participant shall be determined as of the date of his most recent Termination or his date of death, whichever is applicable.
Section 2.18. - Covered Compensation Table Break Point.
"Covered Compensation Table Break Point" shall mean the amount listed in the table below, opposite the year of birth of the Participant:
EXPAND
Year of Birth Covered Compensation Amount Year of Birth Covered Compensation Amount Year of Birth Covered Compensation Amount
1903
or earlier $4,944 1916 $6,432 1929 $6,900
1904 5,160 1917 6,480 1930 6,984
1905 5,352 1918 6,528 1931 7,080
1906 5,520 1919 6,576 1932 7,176
1907 5,652 1920 6,612 1933 7,260
1908 5,784 1921 6,660 1934 7,332
1909 5,892 1922 6,696 1935 7,416
1910 6,000 1923 6,720 1936 7,500
1911 6,084 1924 6,756 1937 7,572
1912 6,168 1925 6,792 1938 7,656
1913 6,240 1926 6,816 1939 7,728
1914 6,312 1927 6,840 1940 7,764
1915 6,372 1928 6,864 1941
or later 7,800
  Section 2.19. - Current Average Cost-of-Living Index Figure.
"Current Average Cost-of-Living Index Figure" shall mean, with respect to Employers who elect in the Adoption Agreement to provide cost-of-living adjustments in benefits received under the Plan, the Consumer Price Index figure (All Urban Consumers Table — All Items, 1982-1984 Base Period) for the month of November most recently issued by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor.
Section 2.20. - Default Beneficiary.
"Default Beneficiary" shall mean the person(s) to whom a pre-retirement death benefit is payable in the absence of a beneficiary designation by the Participant or in the event there is no Primary or Secondary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary to whom a pre-retirement death benefit is payable, determined in accordance with and subject to Section 8.06.
Section 2.21. - Disability.
"Disability" shall mean, with respect to those Adopting Employers who elect in the Adoption Agreement to provide disability retirement benefits and unless otherwise elected in an Addendum to the Adoption Agreement, the following:
(a)
A physical or mental disability of a Participant who because of such disability becomes entitled to receive disability insurance benefits under the Federal Social Security Act, as amended, provided that the following conditions are satisfied:
(1)
Such disability commenced on a specified date during the period of the Participant's employment with the Adopting Employer, as evidenced by a Social Security Administration (SSA) disability award submitted with the Participant's disability retirement application, reflecting a disability onset date on or before the Participant's Termination date; provided, however, that in the event a Participant has filed more than one disability application with the SSA and the SSA disability award reflects a disability onset date after the Participant's Termination date, and where due to SSA administrative res judicata rules the disability onset date reflected in the SSA disability award immediately follows the date that a prior SSA disability award was denied, then the Administrator may consider other documents submitted with the Participant's application for a SSA disability award to determine the disability onset date if the Participant provides such documents to the Administrator and the Administrator deems such documents sufficient to establish that the disability onset date is on or before the Participant's Termination date;
(2)
In no event will the disability commencement date be earlier than the latest disability onset date alleged by the Participant in his SSA disability application(s); and
(3)
The Participant's disability was not self-inflicted, incurred in military service, incurred in the commission of a felonious enterprise, or the result of the use of narcotics or drugs or habitual use of alcohol; or
(b)
A Participant who is not disabled in accordance with the definition under subsection (a) above solely because he lacks the quarters of Social Security coverage required under the Federal Social Security Act, as amended, shall qualify for Disability if the Pension Committee determines that the Participant is permanently disabled on the basis of a certificate signed by at least two (2) physicians, (one physician selected and paid by the disabled Participant and one selected and paid by the Employer) stating that:
(1)
The Participant is permanently disabled as defined in Internal Revenue Code Section 72(m); and
(2)
Such disability commenced on a specified date during the period of the Participant's employment with the Adopting Employer; and
(3)
Such disability was not self-inflicted, incurred in military service, incurred in the commission of a felonious enterprise, or the result of the use of narcotics or drugs or habitual alcoholism.
Section 2.22. - Disability Retirement Date.
"Disability Retirement Date" shall mean, with respect to those Adopting Employers who elect to provide Disability retirement benefits in the Adoption Agreement and unless otherwise elected in an Addendum to the Adoption Agreement, the first day of the first calendar month in which: (a) a Participant becomes entitled to receive a disability insurance benefit under the Federal Social Security Act, as amended; or (b) the Participant's Disability is determined by the Pension Committee to have commenced, in the case of Disability determinations made by the Pension Committee pursuant to Section 2.21(b), as applicable. However, in no event will the Disability Retirement Date be earlier than one (1) calendar month following the date of the Participant's Termination of Employment as a result of Disability.
Section 2.23. - Early Retirement Date.
"Early Retirement Date" shall mean the first day of the month coinciding with or next following the day a Participant qualifies for Early Retirement as specified in the Adoption Agreement, as of which the Participant actually Retires.
Section 2.24. - Earnings.
"Earnings" shall mean, unless otherwise specified by the Employer in an Addendum to the Adoption Agreement, the total taxable compensation paid to a Participant by the Employer, as reflected in the Employer's W-2 payroll records. Earnings shall also include compensation deferred pursuant to Code Sections 401(k), 403(b) or 457, compensation redirected pursuant to Code Section 125 or 132(f)(4), and contributions picked-up under Code Section 414(h) during the Plan Year.
The annual earnings of a Participant for any year taken into account under the Plan for any Plan Year beginning prior to January 1, 1994, shall not exceed Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($200,000) (as increased by the Cost of Living Adjustment for the year), or for any Plan Year beginning on or after January 1, 1994, shall not exceed One Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($150,000) (as increased by the Cost of Living Adjustment for the year, pursuant to Code Section 401(a)(17)(B)). For any Plan Year beginning after December 31, 2001, the annual earnings of a Participant for any year taken into account under the Plan shall not exceed Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($200,000) (as increased by the Cost of Living Adjustment for the year, pursuant to Code Section 401(a)(17)(B)). Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph, in determining benefit accruals in Plan Years beginning after December 31, 2001, the limit hereunder for determination periods beginning before January 1, 2002, shall be Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($200,000).
Annual earnings means Earnings during the Plan Year or such other consecutive twelve (12) month period over which Earnings are otherwise determined under the Plan (the determination period). The Cost of Living Adjustment for a calendar year applies to annual earnings for the determination period that begins with or within such a calendar year. If a short Plan Year occurs, the annual earnings limit is an amount equal to the otherwise applicable annual earnings limit multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months in the short Plan Year, and the denominator of which is twelve (12).
Section 2.25. - Effective Date.
"Effective Date" shall mean the original effective date of the Adopting Employer's GMEBS-administered defined benefit plan as specified in the Adoption Agreement.
Section 2.26. - Eligible Employee.
"Eligible Employee" shall mean any Employee who is designated as an Eligible Employee in the Adoption Agreement and who satisfies any eligibility conditions applicable to the class of Eligible Employees to which he belongs.
Section 2.27. - Eligible Regular Employee.
"Eligible Regular Employee" shall mean any Regular Employee who satisfies the minimum hour and other eligibility conditions applicable to Regular Employees in the Employer's Adoption Agreement.
Section 2.28. - Employee.
"Employee" shall mean any person who is regularly employed in the services of the Employer as an employee and shall include elected or appointed members of the Governing Authority and Municipal Legal Officers if they are included as Eligible Employees in the Adoption Agreement. However, notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, the term "Employee" does not include: (a) an individual who is a nonresident alien and who receives no earned income (within the meaning of Code Section 911(d)(2)) from an Employer which constitutes income from sources within the United States within the meaning of Code Section 861(a)(3); (b) a leased employee; or (c) any person treated in good faith by an Employer as an independent contractor, regardless of whether such person is later determined to be a common law employee for tax purposes.
Section 2.29. - Employer.
"Employer" shall mean an Employer as defined in O.C.G.A. § 47-5-2(9) (a copy of which is included in the Appendix hereto). No employer which is not permitted to participate in a qualified governmental pension plan as defined in Code Section 401(a) and 414(d) shall be permitted to participate in the Georgia Municipal Employees Retirement System Plan.
Section 2.30. - Enrollment Date.
"Enrollment Date" shall mean the date that an Eligible Employee first becomes a Participant under this Plan. Said date shall be established by the Pension Committee on an Applicable Form.
Section 2.31. - FMLA.
"FMLA" shall mean the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, as amended from time to time.
Section 2.32. - Firefighter.
"Firefighter" shall mean an Eligible Regular Employee of the Adopting Employer who is either certified as a firefighter pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 25-4-1 et seq. (a copy of which is included in the Appendix hereto) or who would otherwise be required to be certified as a firefighter but who is exempt pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 25-4-12 (a copy of which is included in the Appendix hereto).
Section 2.33. - Final Average Earnings.
"Final Average Earnings" shall mean, unless otherwise elected in an Addendum to the Adoption Agreement, the arithmetic annual average of the Earnings paid to a Participant by the Adopting Employer for a specified number of consecutive years (12 month periods) of Credited Service preceding the Participant's most recent Termination in which the Participant's Earnings were the highest. The number of years to be used in determining Final Average Earnings shall be designated by the Adopting Employer in the Adoption Agreement or an Addendum thereto. The Administrator shall prescribe a formula for the determination of Final Average Earnings. Calculation of Final Average Earnings shall be subject to the following:
(a)
If a Participant terminates employment or is on an unpaid leave of absence and he later returns to employment with the Employer, the period(s) prior to and following such absence from employment shall be considered consecutive.
(b)
If a Participant has not completed the number of consecutive years of Credited Service necessary to compute Final Average Earnings under this Section as of the date of his most recent Termination preceding Retirement, then his Final Average Earnings shall be determined by dividing his total Earnings for his entire period of Credited Service by his total number of years of Credited Service. In computing the number of years of Credited Service for this purpose, incomplete years of Credited Service shall be converted to fractional equivalents of years and included in the computation.
Section 2.34. - Governing Authority.
"Governing Authority" shall mean the entity named in the Adoption Agreement which is authorized to act for the Adopting Employer.
Section 2.35. - Ineligible Employee.
"Ineligible Employee" shall mean an Employee of the Adopting Employer who is not an Eligible Employee.
Section 2.36. - Interest.
"Interest" shall mean a pro rata share of any and all interest, dividends, and capital gains or losses earned on the invested or reinvested funds of the GMEBS Investment Fund.
Section 2.37. - Investment Fund or GMEBS Retirement Trust Fund.
"Investment Fund" or "GMEBS Retirement Trust Fund" shall mean the total amounts of all Contributions plus Interest, invested or uninvested, held by the Board of Trustees in the GMEBS Retirement Trust Fund for all GMEBS Employers and their Employees where applicable.
Section 2.38. - Late Retirement Date.
"Late Retirement Date" shall mean the first day of the month coinciding with or next following the day the Participant qualifies for Late Retirement, as specified in Section 6.03, as of which the Participant actually retires.
Section 2.39. - Military Service.
"Military Service" shall mean, unless otherwise specified in the Adoption Agreement, service performed while on active duty in the Armed Forces of the United States if the Participant was granted an honorable discharge. Except as otherwise required by federal or state law, Military Service shall not include service which is credited toward retirement under any other local, state, or federal retirement or pension plan.
Section 2.40. - Monthly Retirement Benefit.
"Monthly Retirement Benefit" shall mean the monthly benefit as provided in Article VI or any optional benefit payable in lieu thereof as provided in Article VII.
Section 2.41. - Municipal Legal Officer.
"Municipal Legal Officer" shall mean, with respect to those Employers who elect to include municipal legal officers as Eligible Employees, only those municipal legal officers specifically designated in the Adoption Agreement for inclusion as Eligible Employees, provided that such officer otherwise meets the Master Plan's definition of Employee.
Section 2.42. - Normal Retirement Date or Alternative Normal Retirement Date.
"Normal Retirement Date" or "Alternative Normal Retirement Date" shall mean the first day of the month coinciding with or next following the date the Participant qualifies for Normal Retirement as specified in the Employer's Adoption Agreement. An Employer may also establish alternative Normal Retirement qualifications in the Adoption Agreement. In such case, the Participant's Alternative Normal Retirement Date shall mean the first day of the month coinciding with or next following the date the Participant meets the alternative Normal Retirement qualifications.
Section 2.43. - Participant or Participating Employee.
"Participant" or "Participating Employee" shall mean any Eligible Employee who is or may become eligible to receive a benefit of any type from the Plan and who has commenced participation in the Plan under Article IV.
Section 2.44. - Pension Committee.
"Pension Committee" shall mean the committee named in the Adoption Agreement to represent the Adopting Employer in the administration of the Plan.
Section 2.45. - Plan.
"Plan" shall mean the provisions of this Master Plan document, along with the Employer's Adoption Agreement (including any Addendum to the Adoption Agreement, if applicable), setting forth the Employees to be covered, the benefits to be provided, and the conditions of retirement, and all amendments thereto which may hereafter be made.
Section 2.46. - Plan Representative.
"Plan Representative" shall mean the Plan Representative designated in the Employer's Adoption Agreement. The Plan Representative must have full authority to represent the Governing Authority in all communications with GMEBS and the Adopting Employer's Employees. The Pension Committee Secretary may serve as the Plan Representative.
Section 2.47. - Plan Year.
"Plan Year" shall mean a twelve (12) consecutive month period specified as such in the Adoption Agreement.
Section 2.48. - Police Officer.
"Police Officer" shall mean an Eligible Regular Employee employed by the Adopting Employer's Police Department who is either certified or registered as a peace officer pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq. (a copy of which is included in the Appendix hereto).
Section 2.49. - Post-Retirement Beneficiary.
"Post-Retirement Beneficiary" shall mean the person designated by the Participant, in writing and on the Applicable Form, to receive a post-retirement survivor benefit in accordance with and subject to the provisions of Article VII and Section 8.12.
Section 2.50. - Practitioner.
"Practitioner" means Ice Miller LLP, Legal Counsel, who is the volume submitter practitioner sponsoring the Plan on behalf of GMEBS.
Section 2.51. - Primary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary.
"Primary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary" shall mean the person designated by the Participant, in writing and on an Applicable Form, to receive a pre-retirement death benefit, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of Article VIII.
Section 2.52. - Regular Employee.
"Regular Employee" shall mean any Employee, other than an elected or appointed member of the Governing Authority or Municipal Legal Officer, who is regularly employed in the services of the Adopting Employer.
Section 2.53. - Resolution.
"Resolution" shall mean a resolution duly adopted by an Employer.
Section 2.54. - Retired Participant.
"Retired Participant" shall mean any Participant who has Terminated Employment with the Employer and who is receiving a benefit provided under the Plan.
Section 2.55. - Retirement or Retires.
"Retirement" or "Retires" shall mean withdrawal from Service with a retirement allowance granted under the provisions of the Plan.
Section 2.56. - Retirement System, System, or GMEBS.
"Retirement System," "System," or "GMEBS" shall mean the Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System created by O.C.G.A. Section 47-5-1 et seq. (a copy of which is included in the Appendix hereto).
Section 2.57. - Secondary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary.
"Secondary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary" shall mean the person designated by the Participant, in writing and on the Applicable Form, to receive a pre-retirement death benefit in the event the Primary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary does not survive the Participant, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of Article VIII.
Section 2.58. - Section.
"Section" shall mean, when not preceded by the word Code or ERISA, a section of the Master Plan document.
Section 2.59. - Spouse.
"Spouse" shall mean a person who, as of the date of the Participant's or Terminated Participant's death, as applicable, is lawfully joined with the Participant or Terminated Participant in a marriage which is recognized under the laws of the State of Georgia.
Section 2.60. - Terminated Participant.
"Terminated Participant" shall mean any Participant who has Terminated Employment with the Adopting Employer and who has a Vested Benefit under any provision of the Adopting Employer's Plan.
Section 2.61. - Termination, Terminate Employment, Termination of Employment, or Terminated.
"Termination," "Terminate Employment," "Termination of Employment," or "Terminated" shall mean a severance of employment with the Employer, including Retirement, resignation or discharge, lapse of recall rights after layoff, death, or vacation of office by an elected or appointed member of the Governing Authority or a Municipal Legal Officer. Provided, however, that Termination shall not include: (i) absence from active employment which is not treated by the Adopting Employer as a Termination of Employment; (ii) absence due to military service to the extent required under USERRA and Code Section 414(u)(8)(A), (iii) absence due to leave which qualifies as family or medical leave under the FMLA, to the extent required under the FMLA; or (iv) absence due to an authorized leave of absence for any reason if approved by the Adopting Employer. Unless otherwise required by law or unless the terms of the leave otherwise specify, if an Employee on an authorized leave of absence fails to return to active employment upon expiration of the leave of absence, the Employee will be considered terminated as of the date immediately preceding the approved leave period.
Section 2.62. - Trust Fund.
"Trust Fund" mean the total amounts, invested or uninvested, held at any time by the Board in trust for the Employer under the GMEBS Trust Agreement.
Section 2.63. - Vested, vesting, vested right, or vested benefit.
"Vested," "Vesting," "Vested Right," or "Vested Benefit" shall mean the rights of a Terminated Participant as specified in Article IX.
