Chapter 2 - MAYOR AND COUNCIL
Article I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 2.10. - Composition and election.
The legislative authority of the government of the City of LaGrange shall be vested in a mayor and six (6) councilmen, who shall be elected in the manner provided by Chapter 6 of this charter.
Sec. 2.11. - Terms and qualifications of office.
The mayor and members of the council shall serve for terms of four (4) years and until their successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be qualified or eligible to seek election as mayor or councilman unless he shall have resided in the city one (1) year immediately preceding his election, and shall be registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections for offices of the City of LaGrange.
Sec. 2.12. - Vacancy in elected offices.
The offices of mayor or councilman shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, removal from office in any manner authorized by law, or forfeiture of his office, or when he ceases to reside within the corporate limits of the City of LaGrange. A vacancy in the office of mayor or councilman shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided for in Chapter 6.
Sec. 2.13. - Compensation; expenses.
The mayor and each councilman shall receive as compensation for their services an amount fixed by ordinance of the council. In addition thereto, the mayor and council may be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties, as provided by ordinance of the council.
State Law reference— Compensation of municipal governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Sec. 2.14. - Oath of office.
Each newly elected or appointed mayor or council member, before entering upon the duties of his or her office, shall take and subscribe before the city clerk or before some judicial officer, or mayor, the following oath:
"I do solemnly swear that I will well and truly perform the duties of mayor (or council member, as the case may be) of the City of LaGrange, to the best of my skill and ability, and as to me shall seem to the best interest and welfare of the city, without fear, favor or affection; so help me God."
(Ord. No. 07-13, § 1, 4-24-07; Ord. No. 16-11, § 1, 12-13-16; Ord. No. 18-05, § 1, 7-10-18)
Sec. 2.15. - Prohibitions.
(a)
Holding other office. Except as authorized by law, neither the mayor nor any member of [the] council shall hold any other city office or city employment during the term for which he was elected, and no former mayor or councilman shall hold any compensated appointive city office or city employment until one (1) year after the expiration of the term for which he was elected to office.
(b)
Voting when personally interested. Neither the mayor nor any member of the council shall vote upon any question in which he is personally interested.
State Law reference— Elected officials holding other offices, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-4; voting upon questions by interested council members, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-6.
Sec. 2.16. - Forfeiture of office.
The mayor or any member of the council shall forfeit his office if he:
(1)
Lacks at any time during his term of office any qualification for the office as prescribed by this charter or by law;
(2)
Violates any expressed prohibition of this charter; or
(3)
Is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude.
State Law reference— Suspension of member of governing authority upon indictment, O.C.G.A. § 45-5-6.
Sec. 2.17. - Judge of qualifications.
The mayor and council shall be the judge of the election and qualifications of its members and of the grounds for forfeiture of their offices and for that purpose shall have power to subpoena witnesses, administer oaths and require the production of evidence. A member charged with conduct constituting grounds for forfeiture of his office shall be entitled to a public hearing on demand, and notice of such hearing shall be published in one (1) or more newspapers of general circulation in the city at least one (1) week in advance of the hearing. Decisions made by the mayor and council under this section shall be subject to the review of the courts.
State Law reference— Appeal and error, O.C.G.A. Title 5; courts, O.C.G.A. Title 15.
Sec. 2.18. - Inquiries and investigations.
(a)
The mayor and council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and conduct of any department, office, or agency thereof and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the mayor and council shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
(b)
The mayor and council of the City of LaGrange are hereby authorized to create or to abolish, by ordinance, a grievance and appeals board or grievance appeals hearing officer for the city to hear, determine, and decide personnel issues as defined therein; to fix the number of, qualifications, and terms for such board or officers; and to fix the rules, regulations, policies, and procedures for the grievance appeals board or grievance appeals hearing officer.
(c)
The grievance appeals board, grievance appeals hearing officer or assistant city manager may, by ordinance, be authorized to issue subpoenas to require the attendance of witnesses or the production of documentary or other evidence, to fix a standard witness fee, and to provide for the enforcement of such subpoena by the judge of the State Court of Troup County, Georgia, upon petition by the city manager or any other party in interest filing the petition, including but not limited to assessment of attorney's fees and costs for filing such petition.
(Ga. Laws 1996, Act No. 591, § 1; Ord. No. 98-3, § 1, 2-24-98; Ord. No. 07-13, § 1, 4-24-07; Ord. No. 16-11, § 1, 12-13-16)
Sec. 2.19. - Independent audit.
The mayor and council shall provide for an independent annual audit of all accounts of the City of LaGrange and may provide for such more frequent audits as it deems necessary. Such audits shall be made by a certified public accountant or firm of such accountants who have no personal interests, direct or indirect, in the fiscal affairs of the city or any of its officers. The mayor and council, may, without requiring competitive bids, designate such accountant or firm annually or for a period not exceeding three (3) years, provided that the designation for any particular fiscal year shall be made no later than thirty (30) days after the beginning of such fiscal year.
State Law reference— Budgets and audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.
Sec. 2.20. - General power and authority of mayor and council.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided by law or this charter, the mayor and council shall be vested with all the powers of government of the City of LaGrange as granted by Chapter 2 [Chapter 1], Article II.
(b)
In addition to other powers conferred upon it by law, the mayor and council shall have the authority to adopt and provide for the execution of such ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations[,] not inconsistent with this charter, the constitution and general laws of the State of Georgia, which it shall deem necessary, expedient or helpful for the peace, good order, protection of life and property, health, welfare, sanitation, comfort, convenience, morals, prosperity and well-being of the inhabitants of the City of LaGrange and may enforce such ordinances by imposing penalties for violations thereof.
(c)
The mayor and council may by ordinance create, change, alter, abolish and consolidate offices, agencies, and departments and may assign additional functions to any of the offices, agencies and departments expressly provided for by this charter.
(d)
The mayor and council shall be authorized annually to appropriate and expend funds derived from taxation, contributions, or otherwise for purely charitable purposes only: (1) pursuant to the terms of a contract or agreement with a charitable organization or entity; or (2) upon a majority vote of the mayor and the members of the council when there is no contract or agreement with any such charitable organization or entity; provided, however, that the mayor and council shall only be authorized to so expend municipal funds for such purposes in those cases where the city receives a direct consideration or benefit in return for such expenditure.
(Ga. Laws 1990, Act No. 930, § 1)
Article II - MAYOR

Sec. 2.21. - Powers and duties.
The mayor shall be the official spokesman for the city and the chief advocate of policy. He shall preside at meetings of the council, shall sign ordinances and resolutions on their final passage, shall sign deeds, bonds, contracts, and other instruments or documents authorized to be executed on behalf of the city. The mayor shall perform such other duties imposed by this charter or by ordinance of council not inconsistent therewith.
Sec. 2.22. - Mayor pro tem.
During the absence or disability of the mayor for cause, the mayor pro tem, or in his absence or disability for any reason, any one (1) of the councilmen chosen by the council shall be clothed with all the rights and privileges of the mayor and shall perform the duties of the office of mayor so long as such absence or disability shall continue.
Article III - ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES

Sec. 2.30. - Organizational meeting.
The mayor and council shall meet for organization at the first regular meeting in January following each regular election. The meeting shall be called to order by the assistant city manager and the oath of office shall be administered to the newly elected members. Following the induction of members, the mayor and council by majority vote of all the members thereof shall elect one (1) of their number to be mayor pro tem, who shall serve for a term of one (1) year.
(Ord. No. 07-13, § 1, 4-24-07; Ord. No. 16-11, § 1, 12-13-16)
Sec. 2.31. - Regular and special meetings.
(a)
The mayor and council shall hold regular meetings at least once in every month at such times and places as prescribed by ordinance. The mayor and council may recess any regular meeting and continue such meeting on any weekday or hour they may fix. They may transact any business at such continued meeting as may be transacted at any regular meeting.
(b)
Special meetings of the mayor and council may be held on [the] call of the mayor or shall be held when requested in writing by a majority of the members of the council and, except in case of emergency, upon no less than twenty-four (24) hours notice to each member. Notice of any special meeting may be waived in writing[,] and attendance at the meeting shall be a waiver of notice of any special meeting.
(c)
All meetings of the mayor and council shall be public; provided, however, they may recess for the purpose of discussion in a closed session[,] limited to their own members, [of] any matter which would tend to defame or prejudice the character or reputation of any person.
State Law reference— Meetings open to public, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-80-1, 50-14-1 et seq.
Sec. 2.32. - Quorum; voting.
The mayor or mayor pro tem and four (4) councilmen shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The mayor or mayor pro tem, if he is presiding, shall be entitled to vote only in case of a tie. A majority of the votes cast shall determine all questions except as otherwise provided in this charter. Voting, except on procedural motions, shall be by voice and the ayes and nays shall be recorded in the journal, but any member of the council shall have the right to request a roll call vote.
Article IV - ORDINANCE PROCEDURE

Sec. 2.40. - Action requiring an ordinance.
Except as herein provided, every legislative act of the mayor and council shall be exercised only by ordinance.
(a)
Form. Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain more than one (1) subject which shall be clearly expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be "The mayor and the council of the City of LaGrange hereby ordain…"
(b)
Procedure. Except as otherwise provided by this charter, each ordinance shall be introduced and read at a regular meeting of the mayor and council. The ordinance shall not be adopted until the next regular meeting of the mayor and council following the meeting of its initial introduction, but said ordinance may be amended, corrected or revised prior to adoption. Upon introduction of any ordinance, the city clerk shall distribute a copy to the mayor and to each council member, and to the city manager, and shall file a reasonable number of copies in the office of the city clerk, and at such other public places as the council may designate.
(c)
Submission of ordinance to mayor. Every ordinance shall after adoption but before it takes effect, be tendered to the mayor within five (5) days for his approval. The mayor shall sign the ordinance if he approves it, whereupon it shall become effective. If he disapproves it, he shall return it to the council with the reasons for his disapproval at or prior to the next regular meeting of the mayor and council. If the council shall pass the ordinance by a vote of at least four (4) councilmen at a regular or special meeting within seven (7) days after the ordinance has been returned with the mayor's disapproval, it shall become effective without his approval. If the mayor does not return the ordinance or resolution to the council within the time herein required, the same shall become effective without his approval.
(Ord. No. 07-13, § 1, 4-24-07; Ord. No. 16-11, § 1, 12-13-16; Ord. No. 18-05, § 2, 7-10-18)
Sec. 2.41. - Emergency ordinances.
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property or public peace, the mayor and council may adopt one (1) or more emergency ordinances, but such ordinances may not levy taxes, grant, renew of [or] extend a franchise, regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services, or authorize the borrowing of money except as provided by law. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form and manner prescribed for ordinances generally except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing it in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted with or without amendment or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of at least four (4) councilmen shall be required for adoption. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance except one made pursuant to Chapter 4, shall automatically stand repealed seventy (70) days following the date upon which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
State Law reference— Authorization of unbonded debt, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-10 et seq.
Sec. 2.42. - Codes of technical regulations.
The mayor and council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by references thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally except that:
(1)
The requirements of section 2.40(b) for distribution and filing of copies of the ordinance shall be construed to include copies of the code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance; and
(2)
A copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the city clerk pursuant to section 2.43.
Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations shall be made available by the city clerk for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
(Ord. No. 07-13, § 1, 4-24-07; Ord. No. 16-11, § 1, 12-13-16; Ord. No. 18-05, § 3, 7-10-18)
State constitution reference—Building, housing, plumbing, electrical, etc., codes, Art. 9, § 2, Par. 3.
Sec. 2.43. - Authentication and recording; codification; printing.
(a)
The city clerk shall authenticate by his or her signature, and record in full a properly indexed book kept for the purpose, all ordinances adopted by the mayor and council.
(b)
Within three (3) years after the adoption of this charter, and at least every ten (10) years thereafter, the mayor and council shall provide for the preparation of a general codification of all city ordinances having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted by the mayor and council by ordinance and shall be published promptly, together with this charter and any amendment thereto, and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the mayor and council may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as "The Code of the City of LaGrange." Copies of the Code shall be furnished to all officers, departments, and agencies of the city and placed in public libraries for free public reference and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price as fixed by the mayor and council.
(c)
The mayor and council shall cause each ordinance having the force and effect of law and each amendment to this charter to be printed promptly following its adoption, and the printed ordinances and charter amendments shall be distributed or sold to the public at a reasonable price to be fixed by the mayor and council. Following publication of the first Code of the City of LaGrange and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the Code currently in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein. The mayor and council shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with respect to reproduction and distribution of any current changes in or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the Code.
(Ord. No. 07-13, § 1, 4-24-07; Ord. No. 16-11, § 1, 12-13-16; Ord. No. 18-05, § 4, 7-10-18)
Sec. 2.44. - Authority of appointment and removal.
For all instances in which the mayor and council have authority to appoint a member to a board, agency, authority or other instrumentality or committee, the mayor and council may remove any such member from said office at their pleasure, with or without cause.
(Ord. No. 99-10, § 1, 4-20-99)
