Chapter 15-25 - FRANCHISES[9]
Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Charter reference— Franchises, § 5.21.
Cross reference— Streets and sidewalks, Ch. 15-5; city utilities, Ch. 20-1 et seq.; community and economic development, Ch. 25-1 et seq.; licenses and business regulations, Ch. 30-1 et seq.; ambulance franchise, § 30-15-88 et seq.
State Law reference— Power of city to grant franchises to public utilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7).

Article I - IN GENERAL

Sec. 15-25-1. - Fees; payment; failure to pay.
All of the franchise fees and occupational licenses taxes required to be paid pursuant to the provisions of this chapter 15-25 shall be paid and received by the city on or before the due date specified therein. If not paid and received on or before the due date specified, interest at the rate specified in section 5-15-10 of this Code shall be applied and shall be due from the date such obligation was due.
(Ord. No. 96-34, § 1, 6-11-96)
Secs. 15-25-2—15-25-15. - Reserved.
Article II - CABLE TELEVISION[10]
Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
State Law reference— Cable television systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1 et seq.; avoiding or attempting to avoid charges for use of cable television service, O.C.G.A. § 46-5-2; taxation of franchises, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-420 et seq.

Division 1 - GENERALLY

Sec. 15-25-16. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, words and their derivatives shall have the meaning set forth herein unless the context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the singular, words used in the plural number include the singular number, and words used in the singular number include the plural number.
Cable services means "cable services" as defined in the Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984 and the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, and as may be further amended from time to time (the "Cable Act"). In the event that "cable services" is no longer defined in the Cable Act or the definition in the Cable Act otherwise becomes inapplicable, "Cable Services" shall mean "cable services" as defined in the Cable Act immediately prior to such term no longer being defined in the Cable Act or such definition otherwise becoming inapplicable.
Cable system means any "cable system" as defined in the Cable Act.
City means the City of LaGrange, Georgia.
City council means the mayor and council of the city and its designee or any successor thereto.
Franchise means an initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued by the city, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit, license, resolution, contract, certificate, agreement or otherwise, which authorizes the occupation and use of the streets to provide telecommunications services.
Licensee means the holder of a valid franchise issued by the city pursuant to the provisions of this article.
May is permissive.
Ordinance means this article and all modifications and amendments thereto.
Person means any individual or any association, firm, partnership, joint venture, corporation or other legally recognized entity, whether for profit or not for profit, but shall not mean the city.
Request for proposals means the document by which the city solicits applications for franchises.
Shall is mandatory, not merely directive.
Streets means the surface of, as well as the spaces above and below, any and all streets, alleyways, avenues, highways, boulevards, driveways, bridges, tunnels, parks, parkways, public grounds or waters, and other public rights-of-way within or belonging to the city.
Telecommunications services means the receipt and/or distribution, through any means, including, without limitations, coaxial cable, optical fiber, or satellite or microwave transmission, of one (1) or more audio, voice or data signals. Telecommunications services includes both cable services and non-cable telecommunications services.
Television shall mean a system for simultaneous transmission of audio signals and transient visual images by means of electrical impulses.
(Code 1972, § 20-49; Ord. No. 94-44, § 1, 9-27-94)
State Law reference— "Cable television system" defined, O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1.
Sec. 15-25-17. - Authority; conditions to granting.
(a)
The mayor and council may license, and grant nonexclusive franchises to erect, maintain, and operate, television transmission and distribution facilities and additions thereto, in, under, over, along, across and upon the streets, lanes, avenues, sidewalks, alleys, bridges and other public places within the limits of the city, and subsequent additions thereto, for the purpose of transmission and distribution of television impulses and television energy, both community antenna and closed circuit, in accordance with the laws and regulations of the United States and the state, and the ordinances and regulations of the city, for a period of time not to exceed twenty (20) years, which term shall be stated in any franchise so issued and which shall be subject to the terms and conditions herein contained.
(b)
The franchise for operation of a cable television system in the city pursuant to the provisions of this article shall not be assigned nor shall the assets of a cable television franchise be sold without the consent of the mayor and council, nor shall the sale of more than a majority of the corporate stock of the owner of a franchise be accomplished without the consent of the mayor and council.
(Code 1972, § 20-48; Ord. No. 94-22, § 1, 6-30-94)
Cross reference— Streets and sidewalks, Ch. 15-5.
State Law reference— Territorial jurisdiction of city in regulating cable television systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-18-3.
Sec. 15-25-18. - Use of telephone and city poles—Required.
The poles used for the licensee's distribution system shall be those of the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company, and the city, and others when and where practical, provided that mutually satisfactory agreement for attachment can be entered into with the aforesaid company and the city.
(Code 1972, § 20-50)
Sec. 15-25-19. - Same—Attachments not to interfere with other uses.
The licensee shall maintain its attachments on poles that the city now uses, or has been authorized by other franchises now in force or hereafter enacted to use, in such manner that it will not interfere with the use of such poles by the city.
(Code 1972, § 20-51)
State Law reference— Law inapplicable to cable television system owned by city, O.C.G.A. § 36-18-5.
Sec. 15-25-20. - Interference with other systems, etc.
The licensee's transmission and distribution system, poles, wires and appurtenances shall be located, erected and maintained so as not to endanger or interfere with the lives of persons or of property or to interfere with the lives of persons or of property or to interfere with any improvements the city may deem proper to make, or to hinder unnecessarily or obstruct the free use of the streets, alleys, bridges or other public property.
(Code 1972, § 20-52)
State Law reference— Obstructing streets, sidewalks, etc., O.C.G.A. §§ 16-11-43, 32-6-1, 36-30-10.
Sec. 15-25-21. - Height and location on poles of lines.
The matter of height of lines and the placement of the same on poles shall be subject to the direction of the department of utilities or other proper authority of the city.
(Code 1972, § 20-53)
Sec. 15-25-22. - Electrical safety standards.
Construction and maintenance of the transmission distribution system, including house connections, shall be in accordance with the provisions of the National Electrical Safety Code, prepared by the American National Standards Institute, the National Electrical Code of the National Fire Protection Association and other such applicable ordinances and regulations of the city affecting electrical installations which may be in effect.
(Code 1972, § 20-54)
Sec. 15-25-23. - Uniformity of installation and house drop hardware.
Installation and house drop hardware shall be uniform throughout the city, except that the licensee may change its hardware and installation procedure as the area progresses, provided such changes shall be approved by the city.
(Code 1972, § 20-55)
Sec. 15-25-24. - Maintenance, etc., so as not to cause inconvenience; protection at excavations.
In the maintenance and operation of its television transmission and distribution system in the streets, alleys and other public places, and in the course of any new construction or addition to its facilities, the licensee shall proceed so as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the general public; any opening or obstruction in the street or other public places, made by the licensee in the course of its operations, shall be guarded and protected at all times by the placement of adequate barriers, fences or boardings, the bounds of which during periods of dusk and darkness shall be clearly designated by red warning lights.
(Code 1972, § 20-56)
State Law reference— Protection of underground gas pipes and facilities, O.C.G.A. § 25-9-1 et seq.; excavations up to boundary line of property, O.C.G.A. § 44-9-3.
Sec. 15-25-25. - Removal and replacement of pavement.
The licensee shall not take up or disturb any pavement, sidewalk or other improvement of any street, avenue, alley or other public place without the prior written consent of the city, and in such event, the same shall be replaced and the surface restored in as good condition as before entry within forty-eight (48) hours after completion of the licensee's work. Upon failure of the licensee to make such restoration within such time, or to begin such restoration within such time, if the restoration cannot be made within such time, or upon the licensee's delay of more than twenty-four (24) hours in the continuation of a restoration begun, the city may serve upon the licensee notice of the city's intention to cause the restoration to be made, unless the licensee, within twenty-four (24) hours after receipt of such notice, begins or resumes the proper restoration; and if not, the city may cause the proper restoration to be made, including the removal of excess dirt, and the expense of same shall be paid by the licensee upon demand of the city. The licensee shall at all times comply with all regulations which the mayor and council may make applying to the public generally with reference to the removal or replacement of pavements and to excavations in streets and other public places, not inconsistent with their use for the purposes contemplated by this article.
(Code 1972, § 20-57)
Sec. 15-25-26. - Licensee's regulations; rates and installation fees.
The licensee shall adhere to the service regulations for the conduct of its business as specified in the franchise agreement entered between the City and the licensee pursuant to section 15-14-49.
(Code 1972, § 20-58; Ord. No. 96-70a, § 1, 12-10-96)
Sec. 15-25-27. - Minimum service; connection to schools.
The licensee shall provide to its subscribers in the city the signals as set forth in the franchise agreement entered between the city and the licensee pursuant to section 15-14-49.
(Code 1972, § 20-59; Ord. No. 96-70a, § 2, 12-10-96)
Sec. 15-25-28. - Franchise fee.
The licensee shall pay to the city a franchise fee as set forth in the franchise agreement entered between the City and the licensee pursuant to section 15-14-49.
(Code 1972, § 20-60; Ord. No. 70a, § 3, 12-10-96)
State Law reference— Taxation of franchises, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-420 et seq.
Sec. 15-25-29. - Federal regulations; spurious radiation.
The licensee's distribution system shall conform to the requirements of the Federal Communications Commission, particularly with respect to freedom from spurious radiation.
(Code 1972, § 20-61)
Secs. 15-25-30, 15-25-31. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 96-70a, § 4, adopted Dec. 10, 1996, deleted §§ 15-25-30 and 15-25-31, which pertained to picture quality re antenna site and color signal fidelity, derived from the 1972 Code, §§ 20-62, 20-63.
Sec. 15-25-32. - Abandonment of system; deterioration of service.
The distribution system of the licensee shall not be abandoned, either in whole or in part, without the consent of the mayor and council. In the event of the failure of the licensee to render community antenna television service to the city as contemplated by this article, and as specified herein, the mayor and council, on reasonable notice to the licensee, may declare any such license and franchise and the rights granted thereunder forfeited.
(Code 1972, § 20-64)
Sec. 15-25-33. - Liability of city.
The city or its agents or employees shall not be liable for any injury or damage to person or property, whether owned by the licensee or whether owned by others, arising out of the operation of the cable television system, however such injury or damage may occur, unless such injury or damage is caused solely by the direct negligence of an agent or employee of the city. In addition, the licensee agrees to indemnify and hold the city harmless from any such liability during the term of such license as provided in this article.
(Code 1972, § 20-65)
Sec. 15-25-34. - Indemnity insurance.
The licensee shall indemnify and hold the city harmless at all times during the term of the license and franchise from and against all claims for injury or damages to persons or property, both real and personal, caused by the construction, erection, operation or maintenance of any structure, equipment, appliance or products authorized or used pursuant to the authority of this article and in this connection, the city may require the licensee to carry insurance in such forms and in such companies as deemed appropriate by city through the franchise agreement entered between city and licensee pursuant to section 15-14-49.
(Code 1972, § 20-66; Ord. No. 96-70a, § 5, 12-10-96)
Sec. 15-25-35. - Defense of suits.
The licensee, upon receipt of due notice in writing from the city, shall defend at its own expense any action or proceeding against the city in which it is claimed that the injury or damage arose from the licensee's activities in the operation of its television system.
(Code 1972, § 20-67)
Secs. 15-25-36, 15-25-37. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 96-70a, § 6, adopted Dec. 10, 1996, deleted §§ 15-25-36 and 15-25-37, which pertained to removal of equipment on termination of license and engaging in appliance sales or service. Such sections were derived from the 1972 Code, §§ 20-68 and 20-69.
Sec. 15-25-38. - Revocation of franchise for noncompliance.
If the licensee shall fail to comply with any of the provisions of the grant, franchise or this article, or default in any of its obligations, the franchise may be revoked in accordance with the terms of the franchise agreement entered between city and licensee pursuant to section 15-14-49.
(Code 1972, § 20-70; Ord. No. 96-70a, § 7, 12-10-96)
Sec. 15-25-39. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 96-70a, § 8, adopted Dec. 10, 1996, deleted § 15-25-39, Rapidity of installation; cash deposit; termination of franchise. Such section was derived from the 1972 Code, § 20-71.
Sec. 15-25-40. - Financial responsibility.
Prior to the issuance of any license and franchise under this article, the mayor and council may require any applicant to submit proof of financial responsibility in order that the mayor and council can effectively secure to the citizens and residents of the city the protection to which they are entitled to under this article.
(Code 1972, § 20-72)
Sec. 15-25-41. - Compliance with F.C.C. regulations for basic service rates and charges.
(a)
The city will follow the FCC rate regulations in its regulation of the basic service rates and charges of the company and any other cable television system operating in the city, notwithstanding any different or inconsistent provisions in the franchise; and
(b)
In connection with such regulation, the city will ensure a reasonable opportunity for consideration of the views of interested parties; and
(c)
The city manager or his or her designee, is authorized, to execute on behalf of the city and file with the FCC such certification forms or other instruments as are now or may hereafter be required by the FCC rate regulations in order to enable the city to regulate basic service rates and charges.
(Ord. No. 93-46, § 1, 9-28-93)
Editor's note— Inasmuch as Ord. No. 93-46, § 1, adopted Sept. 28, 1993, did not specify manner of codification, inclusion herein as § 15-25-41 was at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 15-25-42. - Granting authority.
(a)
No person shall provide cable services or operate a cable system, and no person shall use or occupy the streets to provide any telecommunications services other than cable services, without a franchise granted in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(b)
The city council may grant one (1) or more franchises in accordance with this article, provided that the city council reserves the right to modify any provision of this article by amendment hereof.
(c)
The grant of any franchise shall be made by adoption of a separate ordinance and/or franchise agreement by the city council and shall be on such terms and conditions as may be specified in said separate ordinance and/or a franchise agreement between the city and the franchisee.
(d)
Any franchise granted shall be nonexclusive. The city specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, such additional franchises as it deems appropriate.
(e)
A franchise may be granted for all or any defined portion of the city and for all or less than all telecommunications services, and for telecommunications services for all or less than all purposes.
(f)
The grant of franchises by the city shall be subject to the provisions of applicable law, such as the provisions in the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, governing cable television franchises and renewals thereof.
(Ord. No. 94-44, § 2, 9-27-94; Ord. No. 96-70a, § 9, 12-10-96)
Sec. 15-25-43. - Solicitation of proposals.
(a)
Applications for franchises may be received or may be solicited by request for proposals, which shall be in such form and be issued on such terms and conditions as the city council may determine, subject to applicable law. Requests for proposals shall be issued by advertisement or such other means as may be determined by the city council.
(b)
Any response to a request for proposals or any application shall contain and/or require the following information with respect to the proposed franchise which is the subject of the request for proposals and such other information with respect to the proposed franchise as the city council shall deem necessary or appropriate:
(1)
Applicant's name, address, telephone number, and federal employer identification number or social security number; copy of applicant's corporate charter or partnership agreement as applicable; and any trade names (and registration) used by applicant;
(2)
A detailed statement of the corporation or business entity organization of the applicant, including but not limited to the following, and to whatever extend required by the city:
a.
The names and the residence and business addresses of all officers and directors of the applicant;
b.
The names, residence, and business addresses of all persons and entities having any share of the ownership of the applicant and the respective ownership share of each person or entity;
c.
The names and address of any parent or subsidiary of the applicant, namely, any other business entity owning or controlling applicant in whole or in part or owned or controlled in whole or in part by the applicant, and statement describing the nature of any such parent or subsidiary business entity, including but not limited to cable systems owned or controlled by the applicant, its parent, and subsidiary, and the areas served thereby;
d.
A detailed and complete financial statement of the applicant, certified by an independent certified public accountant, for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of the application hereunder, or a letter or other acceptable evidence in writing from a recognized lending institution or funding source, addressed to both the applicant and the council, setting forth the basis for a study performed by such lending institution or funding source and a clear statement of its intent as a lending institution or funding source to provide whatever capital shall be required by the applicant to construct and operate the proposed cable system in the city, or a statement from an independent certified public accountant certifying that the applicant has available sufficient free, net, and uncommitted cash resources to construct and operate the proposed cable system in this city;
e.
A detailed financial plan (pro forma) describing for each year of the franchise, projected number of subscribers, rates, all revenues, operating expenses, capital expenditures, depreciation schedules, income statements, and a sources and uses of funds statement; and
f.
A statement identifying, by place and date, any other cable system or telecommunication franchise(s) awarded to the applicant, its parent or subsidiary; the status of said franchise(s) with respect to completion thereof; the total cost of completion of such franchised cable or telecommunication system(s); and the amount of applicant's and its parent's or subsidiary's resources committed to the completion thereof;
(3)
A detailed description of the proposed plan of operation of the applicant which shall include but not be limited to, the following:
a.
A description of the cable services and any other telecommunications services proposed to be provided;
b.
A detailed map indicating all areas proposed to be served, and a proposed time schedule for the installation of all equipment necessary to become operational throughout the entire areas to be serviced;
c.
A statement or schedule setting forth all proposed classifications or rates and charges to be made against subscribers and all rates and charges as to each of said classifications, including installation charges, cable service charges as to each of said classifications, including installation charges, cable service charges, and any other telecommunications service charges;
d.
A detailed, informative, and referenced statement describing the actual equipment and operational standards proposed by the applicant;
e.
A copy of the form of any agreement, undertaking, or other instrument proposed to be entered into between the applicant and any subscriber to cable services; and
f.
A detailed statement setting forth in its entirety any and all agreements and undertaking, whether formal or informal, written, oral, or implied, existing or proposed to exist between the applicant and any person, firm, or corporation which materially relate or pertain to or depend upon the application and the granting of the franchise;
(4)
A copy of any agreement covering the franchise area, if existing between the applicant and any utility providing for the use of any facilities of the utility, including but not limited to, poles, lines, or conduits; and
(5)
Any other details, statements, supplementary information, or references pertinent to the subject matter of such application which shall be required or requested by the council or by any other provision of law.
(Ord. No. 94-44, § 2, 9-27-94)
Sec. 15-25-44. - Nonrefundable application fees for new franchises.
No proposal for a new franchise shall be considered without payment by the applicant of application fees as provided in this section. If a franchise is granted, application fees will not be deemed a credit toward any other fees or sums due by the grantee. If an application is denied, the application fee will not be refunded.
(1)
Purpose of application fees. The application fees provided by this section will serve to cover the direct and indirect costs incurred by the city in processing the application, evaluating the applicant, and granting a franchise, and shall include, but not be limited to, administrative, engineering, publication, legal, and consultant's expenses.
(2)
Base application fee. Notwithstanding any other requirement of this article, each applicant must pay in advance at the time of application, the sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) as a nonrefundable base application fee.
(3)
Additional application fee. In addition to the base application fee, each applicant shall furnish to the city a deposit in the amount of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) by certified check or cashier's check payable to the city. In the event the expenses incurred by the city shall exceed the base application fee, the documented amount of such excess costs shall be deemed an additional application fee and shall be deducted from the deposit. The city shall refund the balance of the additional application fee to the applicant within sixty (60) days after final action to grant or deny a franchise.
(Ord. No. 94-44, § 2, 9-27-94)
Sec. 15-25-45. - Responsibilities of applicants.
It shall be the responsibility of each applicant for a franchise to comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations and other directives of the city and any federal, state or local governmental authority having jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 94-44, § 2, 9-27-94)
Sec. 15-25-46. - Public availability of applications.
To the extent determined by the city council, applications for franchises, including any additions, modifications or amendments thereto, shall be available for public inspection at a designated city office during normal business hours.
(Ord. No. 94-44, § 2, 9-27-94)
Sec. 15-25-47. - Evaluation criteria.
In making any determination hereunder as to any application for a franchise, the city council may consider such factors as it deems appropriate and in the public interest, including, without limitation:
(1)
The adequacy of the proposed compensation to be paid to the city, including the value of any facilities and telecommunications services offered by the applicant to the city;
(2)
The legal, financial, technical and other appropriate qualifications of the applicant;
(3)
The ability of the applicant to maintain the property of the city in good condition throughout the term of the franchise;
(4)
The value and efficiency to the city and its residents of the cable services and other telecommunications services to be provided, including the type of telecommunications services to be provided, as well as alternatives to those services and services that may be precluded by the grant of the franchise;
(5)
The willingness and ability of the applicant to meet construction and physical requirements and to abide by all purpose and policy conditions, limitations and requirements with respect to the franchise; and
(6)
Any other public interest factors or considerations deeded pertinent by the city for safeguarding the interests of the city and public.
(Ord. No. 94-44, § 2, 9-27-94)
Sec. 15-25-48. - Procedure for consideration of and action on applications.
(a)
The city may make such investigations and take or authorize the taking of such other steps as the city council deems necessary or appropriate to consider and act on applications for franchises and determine whether a franchise should be granted to an applicant, and may require the applicant to furnish additional information and data for this purpose. In considering applications, the city council may seek advice from other city officials or bodies, from such other advisory bodies as it may establish or determine appropriate, or from the public, and may request the preparation of one (1) or more reports to be submitted to the city council, which may include recommendations with respect to such applications.
(b)
If the city council, after considering such information as it determines to be appropriate, elects to further consider one (1) or more applications, the city council shall set one (1) or more public hearings for consideration of the application(s), fixing and setting forth a day, hour and place certain when and where any persons having any interest therein or objections thereto may file written comments and appear before the city council and be heard, and providing notice of such public hearing(s) in accordance with applicable law.
(c)
The city council may authorize negotiations between the city officials and applicants to determine whether the city and such applicants are able to reach agreement on the terms of the proposed franchise.
(d)
Upon completion of the steps deemed appropriate by the city council the city council may grant the franchise, and may specify the conditions under which the franchise is granted. Alternatively, the city may reject any and all applications from whatever source and whenever received. The city also reserves the right to waive any or all requirements when it determines that the best interest of the city may be served thereby and may, if it so desires, request new or additional proposals.
Sec. 15-25-49. - Terms and conditions of franchise.
The terms and conditions applicable to any franchise granted pursuant to this article shall be set forth in the separate ordinance granting the franchise or in a separate written agreement. Such separate ordinance or written agreement, among other things, shall address the following subjects:
(1)
The term of the franchise;
(2)
The franchise area and the cable services and other telecommunications services and purposes of such other telecommunications services, if any, which are the subject of the franchise;
(3)
The compensation to be paid to the city, which may include the payment of fees or the provision of facilities or services, or both;
(4)
The circumstances upon which the franchise may be terminated or cancelled;
(5)
The mechanisms, such as performance bonds, security funds or letters of credit, to be put in place to ensure the performance of the franchisee's obligations under the franchise;
(6)
The city's right to inspect the facilities and records of the franchisee;
(7)
Insurance and indemnification requirements applicable to the franchisee;
(8)
The obligation of the franchisee to maintain complete and accurate books of account and records, and the city's inspection rights with respect thereto;
(9)
Provisions to ensure quality workmanship and construction methods;
(10)
Provisions to ensure that the franchisee will comply with all applicable city, state, federal laws, regulations, rules and policies, including, without limitation, those related to employment, purchasing and investigations;
(11)
Provisions to ensure adequate oversight and regulation of the franchisee by the city;
(12)
Provisions to restrict the assignment or other transfer of the franchise without prior written consent of the city;
(13)
Remedies available to the city to protect the city's interest in the event of the franchisee's failure to comply with terms and conditions of the franchise;
(14)
Provisions to ensure that the franchisee will obtain all necessary licenses and permits from, and comply with, all laws, regulations, rules and policies of any governmental body having jurisdiction over the franchisee, including the Federal Communications Commission;
(15)
Provisions to ensure that the franchisee will protect the property of the city and the delivery of public services from damage or interruption of operations resulting from the construction, operation, maintenance, repair or removal of improvements related to the franchise;
(16)
Provisions designed to minimize the extent to which the public use of the streets of the city are disrupted in connection with the construction of improvements relating to the franchise; and
(17)
Such other provisions as the city determines are necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the public interest.
(Ord. No. 94-44, § 2, 9-27-94)
Division 2 - CABLE OR VIDEO SERVICE STATE FRANCHISE

Sec. 15-25-50. - Franchise fee for state-issued cable or video franchise.
The city hereby requires a franchise fee of five (5) percent of gross revenues generated within the city for any cable or video state franchise issued in its corporate boundaries by the State of Georgia. The definition of gross revenues shall be as defined within the Consumer Choice for Television Act, as amended, which Act shall also govern the collection schedule of said franchise fees.
(Ord. No. 08-04, § 2, 1-28-08)
Sec. 15-25-51. - Required submission of facility location.
Any cable service provider operating within the city under a state-issued franchise shall, prior to occupying or placing facilities within the public street rights-of-way of the city, submit to city a set of engineering plans which disclose the type, design and proposed location of such infrastructure within said rights-of-way. City representatives shall have thirty (30) days to review, comment and approve or disapprove the proposed facility location. Any disapproval shall include a written explanation of the grounds supporting denial. Nothing within this code section is intended to deny the right of a cable service operating under a state-issued franchise to occupy the public rights-of-way of the street system of the City of LaGrange."
(Ord. No. 09-09, § 1, 6-25-09)
Article III - POWER COMPANIES
Division 1 - GENERALLY

Secs. 15-25-52—15-25-55. - Reserved.
Division 2 - GEORGIA POWER COMPANY

Sec. 15-25-56. - Franchise granted.
The authority, right, permission and consent are hereby granted to the Georgia Power Company (referred to in sections 15-25-56 and 15-25-57 as the "company"), its successors, lessees and assigns, for a period of thirty-five (35) years from October 28, 1975, to occupy and use the streets, alleys and public places of the city within the present and future limits of the city as from time to time the company may deem proper or necessary for the overhead or underground construction, maintenance, operation and extension of poles, towers, lines, wires, cables, conduits, insulators, transformers, appliances, equipment, connections and other apparatus for the business and purpose of transmitting, conveying, conducting, using, supplying and distributing electricity for light, heat, power and other purposes for which electric current may be or become useful or practicable for public or private use, and to reenter upon such streets, alleys and public places from time to time as it may deem proper or necessary to perform these functions, and to cut and trim trees and shrubbery when and where necessary, in the judgment of the company, to insure safe and efficient service.
(Code 1972, § 20-19)
Editor's note— The city has also granted a franchise to The Troup County Electric Membership Corporation.
Under section 5.21 of the city charter approved on March 8, 1968, the maximum period of future franchises is twenty (20) years. However, see O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2, which does not establish a specific limit.
Sec. 15-25-57. - Terms; conditions.
The rights, permission and consents contained in this article are made for the following considerations and upon the following terms and conditions, to wit:
(1)
The company shall pay into the treasury of the city, on or before the first day of March of each year, during the term of this franchise a sum of money equal to four (4) percent of the gross sales of electric energy to customers served under residential, commercial and industrial rate schedules (as so prescribed) within the corporate limits of the city during the preceding calendar year, on condition that, in the event the city shall grant to any other entity the right to use and occupy its streets for like purposes, such use and occupancy shall be upon the same terms and conditions as those herein contained, including the payments provisions hereof.
(2)
The amount, if any, of any tax, fee, charge or imposition of any kind required, demanded or exacted by the city on any account, other than ad valorem taxes on property and license taxes on the sale of home appliances, shall operate to reduce to that extent the amount due from the percentage of gross sales above provided for.
(3)
The company shall fully protect, indemnify and save harmless the city from all damages to person or property caused by the construction, maintenance, operation or extension of poles, wires or other apparatus, or conditions of streets, alleys or public places resulting therefrom, for which the city would otherwise be liable.
(4)
The company shall, in constructing, maintaining, operating and extending its poles, wires and other apparatus, submit and be subject to all reasonable exercises of the police power by the city. Nothing contained herein, however, shall require the company to surrender or limit its property rights created hereby without due process of law, including adequate compensation, for any other purpose at the instance of the city or for any purpose at the instance of any other entity, private or governmental.
(Code 1972, § 20-19)
Secs. 15-25-58—15-25-60. - Reserved.
Division 3 - TROUP COUNTY ELECTRIC MEMBERSHIP CORPORATION[11]

Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
Editor's note— Per the city's instruction, Ord. No. 94-52, adopted Nov. 22, 1994, has been treated as superseding provisions previously codified as Div. 3, §§ 15-25-61 and 15-25-62. Former Div. 3 pertained to the same subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 91-47, adopted Nov. 26, 1991, and Ord. No. 91-48, adopted Dec. 10, 1991.

Sec. 15-25-61. - Franchise granted.
The authority, right, permission and consent are hereby granted to Troup EMC, its successors, lessees and assigns (the "company"), subject to the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter for a period of thirty-five (35) years, to occupy and use the streets, alleys and public places of the City of LaGrange (the "city") within the present and future limits of the city as from time to time the company may deem proper or necessary for the overhead or underground construction, maintenance, operation and extension of poles, towers, lines, wires, cables, conduits, insulators, transformers, appliances, equipment, connections and other apparatus for the business and purpose of transmitting, conveying, conducting, using, supplying and distributing electricity for light, heat, power and other purposes for which electric current may be or become useful or practicable for public or private use, and to reenter upon such streets, alleys and public places from time to time as the company may deem proper or necessary to perform these functions, and to cut and trim trees and shrubbery when and where necessary, in the judgment of the company, to ensure safe and efficient service.
(Ord. No. 94-52, 11-22-94)
Sec. 15-25-62. - Terms and conditions.
From and after the adoption of this ordinance, the future use by Troup EMC of the streets, alleys, public places and other property of the city for the operation of Troup EMC's electric distribution systems, and the grant of the requisite street franchise rights, is expressly conditioned upon payment of franchise fees pursuant to this ordinance, and continued use and occupancy of such city property for said purpose without payment of such franchise fees shall be unlawful, and the city shall be entitled to enforce compliance with this ordinance by appropriate proceeding at law or in equity.
The rights, permission and consents herein contained are made for the following considerations and upon the following terms and conditions, to wit:
(1)
The company shall pay to the city (a) on or before the first day of March, 1995, a sum of money equal to four percent (4%) of the gross sales of electric energy to all of the Company's customers served within the corporate limits of the city during the period beginning on the first day of December, 1994, through and including December 31, 1994, and (b) on or before the first day of March, 1996, and the same day of each year thereafter during the term of the franchise herein granted a sum of money equal to four percent (4%) of the gross sales of electric energy to all of the company's customers served within the corporate limits of the city during the preceding calendar year; provided, however, that, in the event the city shall grant to any other electric utility the right to use and occupy its streets for like purposes, such use and occupancy shall be upon the same terms and conditions as those herein contained, including the payment provisions hereof.
(2)
The amount, if any, of any tax, fee, charge or imposition of any kind required, demanded or exacted by the city on any account, other than ad valorem taxes on property and license taxes on the sale of home appliances, shall operate to reduce to the extent of such tax, fee, charge or imposition the amount due from the percentage of gross sales as provided herein at paragraph (1).
(3)
The company shall fully protect, indemnify and save harmless the city from all damages to person or property caused by the construction, maintenance, operation or extension of poles, wires or other apparatus, or conditions of streets, alleys or public places resulting therefrom, for which the city would otherwise be liable.
(4)
The company shall, in constructing, maintaining, operating and extending its poles, wires and other apparatus, submit and be subject to all reasonable exercises of the police power by the city. Nothing contained herein, however, shall require the company to surrender or limit its property rights created hereby without due process of law, including adequate compensation, for any other purpose at the instance of the city or for any purpose at the instance of any other entity, private or governmental.
(5)
The grant of the rights, permission and consents by the city to the company contained in this ordinance are specifically conditioned upon the payment of all sums due the city in accordance with the rate, conditions and payment dates set forth in paragraph (1) above, and failure by the company to timely pay the franchise fees required by said paragraph (1) shall constitute a forfeiture of all rights granted by this ordinance. From and after August 1, 1994, the company's continued use and occupancy of the streets, alleys and public places of the city for the aforesaid purposes shall evidence the company's acceptance of the franchise granted hereby and shall render the company liable for payment of all fees required by paragraph (1) hereof. In the event of a forfeiture for failure to comply with such requirements, the company shall nevertheless remain liable for all sums accrued until such time as the streets are vacated due to such forfeiture.
(Ord. No. 94-52, 11-22-94)
Secs. 15-25-63—15-25-70. - Reserved.
Article IV - TELEPHONE COMPANIES

Sec. 15-25-71. - Definition.
(a)
For the purposes of this article, "recurring local service revenues" shall mean:
(1)
Monthly charges for local exchange service, including:
a.
Charges for additional listings and joint users;
b.
The guarantee portion of the charge for semipublic pay station services;
c.
Charges for local message rate service, including mobile service local messages; and
d.
Subscriber station revenues from teletypewriter exchange service;
(2)
Charges for Morse transmission, signaling, data transmission, remote metering and supervisory control, where both terminal points are within the city limits; and
(3)
All charges for local private line services (except audio and video program transmission service) where both terminals of the private line are within the city limits.
(b)
Nothing in this section shall preclude the charging of a separate franchise fee for the transmission of audio or video programs to customers by community antenna television (CATV) companies.
(Code 1972, § 15-7)
State Law reference— Power of city to grant franchises to or make contracts with telephone and telegraph companies, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7).
Sec. 15-25-72. - Occupational license tax.
Each telephone company operating in the city shall pay an occupational license tax in the amount of three (3) percent of the recurring local service revenues received by such company from subscribers located within the city. Said occupational license tax shall be paid in quarterly installments, each of which shall be due on or before the last day of the second month following the end of each calendar quarter and shall be based on recurring local service revenues billed during such calendar quarter.
(Code 1972, § 15-7)
Secs. 15-25-73, 15-25-74. - Reserved.
Sec. 15-25-75. - Franchise granted.[12]
The authority, right, permission and consent are hereby granted to Interstate FiberNet, a General Partnership composed of ITC Transmissions Systems, Inc., a Delaware Corporation and MPX Systems, Inc., a South Carolina Corporation, their successors, lessees and assigns, (hereinafter referred to as "Interstate"), for a period of two (2) years, to occupy and use the streets, alleys and public ways of the city within the present and future limits of the city as from time to time Interstate may deem proper or necessary for the overhead or underground construction, maintenance, operation and extension of poles, towers, lines, wires, cables, conduits, equipment, connections and other apparatus and facilities for the business and purpose of operating fiber optic networks and to reenter upon such streets, alleys and public ways from time to time as it may deem proper or necessary to perform these functions, and to cut and trim trees and shrubbery when and where necessary in the judgment of Interstate to insure safe and efficient service.
(Ord. No. 92-16, § 1, 5-12-92)
Footnotes:
--- (12) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 92-16, adopted May 12, 1992, granting a franchise to Interstate Fibernet, does not include the preamble in this code. The preambles to such ordinances, pertaining to acceptance are not set out herein but the ordinance in its complete form is on file and available in the office of the assistant city manager.

Sec. 15-25-76. - Terms and conditions.
The rights, permission and consents herein contained are made for the following considerations and upon the following terms and conditions, to wit:
(1)
Interstate shall pay to the city during and for all or such portion of the first calendar year in which it shall operate or exercise the franchise rights granted hereby and for each calendar year thereafter a sum of money fixed by the mayor and council of the city for the rental of the poles and for the use of and access to the right-of-way and the streets, public ways and alleys of the city during the term of this franchise agreement, the amount of such annual payment to be established and fixed in a contract executed between the parties for this purpose;
(2)
Interstate shall fully protect, indemnify and save harmless the city from all damages to person or property caused by the construction, maintenance or extension of poles, wires or other facilities or apparatus, or the condition of streets, alleys or public ways resulting therefrom for which the city might otherwise be liable;
(3)
Interstate shall, in exercising the franchise rights granted hereby submit and be subject to all reasonable exercises of the police power by the city. Nothing contained herein shall require Interstate to surrender or limit its property rights created hereby without due process of law, including adequate compensation or any purpose at the instance of the city other than expiration of this franchise or for any purpose at the instance of any other entity, private or governmental.
(Ord. No. 92-16, § 2, 5-12-92)
