Chapter 4 - ANIMALS AND FOWL[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Livestock or poultry at large prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for the owner, or any other person having possession of any cow, horse, mule, hog, sheep or goat, or any poultry, to allow such animal or poultry to run at large in any street or public place within the city.
Sec. 4-2. - Proximity of livestock to residence—Minimum distance of keeping; declaration of nuisance.
It shall be unlawful for any owner, or any other person having possession of any cow, horse, mule, sheep or goat, to stable or otherwise confine any such animal in the city within 100 yards of any dwelling wherein a person resides; the violation of which is declared to be a nuisance likely to endanger the public health.
Sec. 4-3. - Same—Minimum distance of pens or enclosures.
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain a stable, pen, or other place of confinement for the keeping of cows, horses, mules, sheep or goats within 100 yards of any dwelling wherein a person resides; the violation of which is hereby declared to be a nuisance likely to endanger the public health.
Sec. 4-4. - Minimum area per three head of livestock.
It shall be unlawful for any owner, or other person having possession of, any cows, horses, mules, sheep or goats, to stable or confine more than three of such animals together within an enclosure containing less than 500 square yards; the violation of which is declared to be a nuisance likely to endanger the public health.
Sec. 4-5. - Swine prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep swine in the city; the violation of which is declared to be a nuisance likely to endanger the public health.
Sec. 4-6. - Nuisance control.
Without regard to other provisions of this chapter or other sections of the Lake Park Code, it shall be unlawful for owners of dogs, cats or other animals to allow, permit or by negligence fail to prevent such animals from acting or performing in such a manner as to cause damage or insanitary conditions to the property of another or otherwise to cause a nuisance in Lake Park. Acts deemed to be nuisances shall include but are not limited to the following:
(1)
Dogs or cats entering any place where a food is stored, prepared, served or sold to the public except "Seeing Eye" dogs while in the company of a blind person.
(2)
Any dog chasing, running after or jumping at vehicles moving on public streets and alleys.
(3)
Any dog habitually snapping, growling, snarling, jumping upon or otherwise threatening persons lawfully using the public sidewalks, streets, alleys or other public ways or habitually attacking other animals.
(4)
Any animal howling, yelping, whining or barking in such manner as to reasonably disturb any person or neighborhood.
(5)
Any dog feeding from, turning over or otherwise disturbing garbage containers.
(6)
Any animal scratching or digging in flower beds or soiling or damaging the property of anyone other than the owner.
(7)
Male animals having access to female animals or vice versa during a breeding season except within enclosures so arranged as to obstruct such animals entirely from the view of persons outside such enclosures.
(8)
Dogs running at large not on a leash or in voice control of a person and having access to yards or property of persons other than that of the owner of such dog.
(Ord. No. 3 Amd. 1, 10-6-87)
Sec. 4-7. - Violations and penalties for sections 4-6, 4-25 and 4-29.
Any person violating the provisions of sections 4-6, 4-25, or 4-29 and convicted in municipal court shall receive a $150.00 fine and/or 30 days' confinement in the county jail and contempt of court. Also, should the provisions of section 4-29 be violated, identified vicious dogs will be confined at the county pound at the owner's expense as directed by the municipal court.
(Ord. No. 3 Amd. 1, 10-6-87)
Secs. 4-8—4-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DOGS; RABIES CONTROL

Sec. 4-20. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them:
Dog means a canine animal of either sex.
Dog under control means a dog is under control if he is controlled by a leash, is at heel, or is beside a competent person and obedient to that person's commands, or is within a vehicle being driven or parked on the streets, or is within the property limits of his owner or custodian.
Sec. 4-21. - Enforcement of article.
The governing body may enforce this article, or may negotiate with and contract with the county for the purpose of cooperating with the county in the enforcement of this article; and may enter into contracts with the county to provide for a dog catcher and dog pound facilities all in furtherance of the enforcement of this article.
Sec. 4-22. - Identification and vaccination—Required.
It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of a dog to keep such dog without a collar which shall have attached a valid vaccination tag as required by the law of the state, and identification tag showing the name and address of the owner or custodian of said dog.
Sec. 4-23. - Same—Illegal attachment or removal of tag.
It shall be unlawful for any person to attach a vaccination or identification tag to any dog for which it was not intended, or to remove a vaccination or identification tag or collar from any dog without the consent of its owner or custodian.
Sec. 4-24. - Same—Qualifications to vaccinate.
No person shall vaccinate dogs against rabies who is not licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the state.
Sec. 4-25. - Dogs at large prohibited.
Irrespective of and/or in addition to impoundment provisions, including assessment of penalty fees relating to impoundment of animals as prescribed in other sections of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for owners of dogs to allow, permit, or by negligence fail to prevent their dogs from running at large not on a leash or in voice control of a responsible person. Any dog on the owner's property and not confined thereto by fence, chain, or other suitable and effective means, and when no responsible person is present to control such dog, shall be considered running at large and in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1, 8-7-73; Ord. No. 3 Amd. 1, 10-6-87)
Sec. 4-26. - Impounding—Required as to dogs in violation.
Any dog found running at large in violation of this article shall be immediately impounded by the duly authorized officers and agents of the city.
Sec. 4-27. - Same—Impounding; costs; redemption.
(a)
The chief of police shall have the authority to impound any dogs found at large on the streets. Such officer shall charge the owner for the actual cost to the city of impounding and upkeep of the dog.
(b)
If the owner of the dog does not reclaim the impounded dog within ten days the chief of police may dispose of the same.
(Ord. No. 3, §§ 2, 3, 8-7-73)
Sec. 4-28. - Same—Authority when owner unknown.
In the event that the owner or custodian of a dog is not known, and such dog is upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks, school grounds, public places, and premises of another, any law enforcement officer or agent or employee duly authorized by the city shall be authorized to take possession of such dog and impound it in accordance with the rules and regulations now or hereinafter provided by law or by ordinance of the city for the detention, control and disposition of dogs impounded pursuant to applicable law or ordinance.
Sec. 4-29. - Vicious dogs.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, accompany or be responsible for the presence of any vicious dog on the streets of the city or in any other public place therein, at any time, unless and in addition to the other requirements of this article, such dog shall be securely muzzled or confined to effectively prevent it from biting any person or other animal. Biting is defined as breaking of the skin of a person or animal by the teeth of the dog. In addition, any vicious dog which attacks a human being or another domestic animal may be ordered destroyed when, in the court's judgment, such vicious dog represents a continuing threat of serious harm to human beings or domestic animals.
(Ord. No. 3 Amd. 1, 10-6-87)
