Chapter 32 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— City has power to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, street lights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4); municipal street systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-90 et seq.; powers with respect to municipal street system, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-92; regulation of maintenance and use of public roads generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1 et seq.; municipal authority to regulate alleys, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 32-1. - House numbering.
The mayor and council shall provide a uniform numbering system for all property in the city. It shall be the duty of each property owner to secure the correct number for his property from the code enforcement officer and thereafter to display the assigned number in a conspicuous place on the property so that the number is clearly discernible from the street.
(Code 1972, § 15-3; Code 1994, § 90-1)
Sec. 32-2. - Display of merchandise.
It shall be unlawful for any person to display any merchandise, product or equipment for sale, trade or barter on any public street, street right-of-way, sidewalk or park of the city.
(Code 1972, § 15-5; Code 1994, § 90-2)
Sec. 32-3. - Excavations in streets or sidewalks.
(a)
No excavation shall be made in the right-of-way of any public street or sidewalk located within the city limits except by the city or, for utility installation or repair, a public utility company, a cable company, the Clayton County Water Authority (CCWA), or a franchisee of any of these entities.
(b)
Any entity other than the city desiring to conduct an excavation (hereinafter referred to as "the entity") in the right-of-way of any public street or sidewalk located within the city limits shall obtain from the city a permit for excavation at least 48 hours before beginning excavation, except in the case of an emergency threatening life or property, in which case the entity shall contact the police department as soon as reasonably practicable and fulfill the requirements of a permit application as set out in this section within 24 hours of beginning excavation.
(c)
In order to obtain a permit, the entity shall submit a written application to the city clerk, which application shall show the location where the excavation will occur, its purpose, the approximate number of square yards of surface to be cut, an address at which the entity consents that the city may properly serve on the entity notice of any matter concerning the excavation, and the name of a representative (hereinafter referred to as "the representative") of the entity. The entity shall also comply with any conditions, including posting of a bond, required by the city clerk in writing.
(d)
For the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare, the entity shall take such precautionary actions, including but not limited to the provision of markers, warning lights or barricades, as the circumstances dictate.
(e)
All costs of excavation and compliance with this section shall be assumed by the entity, and the entity agrees, as a condition of the issuance of a permit, to indemnify and hold harmless the city against any claims or expenses, including but not limited to attorney fees, for bodily injury or property damage arising out of the entity's excavation operations.
(f)
Upon completion of the excavation, the entity shall restore the area excavated to essentially the same condition that existed prior to the excavation. Additionally, all excess debris and refuse, including but not limited to excess pavement, concrete, bricks and lumber, shall be removed from the site by the entity.
(g)
In the event the entity conducts an excavation pursuant to the emergency repair provision contained in subsection (b) of this section and the city determines that no emergency in fact existed, the entity responsible for such excavation shall be deemed to have failed to comply with this section. Additionally, any entity conducting an emergency repair designates as its representative any person performing such work.
(h)
In the event the entity fails to comply with the requirements of this section, the representative of the entity, any person (whether an employee of the entity, a subcontractor of the entity, or an employee of a subcontractor of the entity) at the excavation site on behalf of the entity, and the entity itself shall be jointly and severally subject to a penalty as provided under section 1-8.
(Code 1972, § 15-6; Code 1994, § 90-3; Ord. No. 99-02, § 1(90-3), 11-8-1999)
State Law reference— Georgia Utility Facility Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 25-9-1 et seq.
Sec. 32-4. - Damaging streets and sidewalks.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle or equipment on, over or upon any street, sidewalk or other public property when the vehicle or equipment causes damage to the street, sidewalk or other public property.
(Code 1972, § 15-9; Code 1994, § 90-4)
Sec. 32-5. - Public nudity prohibited.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Nudity means showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
Public place means all outdoor places owned by or open to the general public, all locations, whether indoor or outdoor, that are visible from any public right-of-way or any adjacent property, and all buildings and enclosed places owned by or open to the general public, including such places of entertainment, taverns, restaurants, clubs, theaters, dance halls, banquet halls, party rooms or halls limited to specific members, restricted to adults or to patrons invited to attend, whether or not an admission charge is levied.
(b)
The mayor and council find that public nudity creates a threat to the public health, safety, welfare and morals. Among the potential harmful effects of public nudity are: accidents in various situations, including traffic accidents, caused by the inherently distractive nature of public nudity; decrease in property values near places where public nudity occurs regularly; decrease in business at commercial establishments located near places where public nudity occurs regularly; risk of unsanitary deposit of human excrement.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally, in a public place, to appear in a state of nudity.
(d)
The prohibition set forth in this section shall not apply to:
(1)
Any child under ten years of age; or
(2)
Any female exposing a breast in the process of nursing a child.
(Ord. No. 03-03, § 1(90-5), 4-14-2003)
Secs. 32-6—32-28. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SIDEWALKS

Sec. 32-29. - Water drainage on sidewalks.
No person shall erect or maintain any drain, gutter, downspout, valley or roof in such a manner as to allow such to drain or shed water on any sidewalk in the city.
(Code 1972, § 15-7; Code 1994, § 90-26)
Sec. 32-30. - Maintenance.
It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any improved property which abuts a paved sidewalk to fail to keep the sidewalk clean and free from dirt, trash, grass, ice and snow or to place or cause to be placed thereon any object which interferes with the free and unfettered use of the sidewalk by the public or which interferes with surface water drainage.
(Code 1972, § 15-8; Code 1994, § 90-27)
Secs. 32-31—32-48. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - STREETS

Sec. 32-49. - Dedication.
No dedication to the city of property to be used as a street, alley or other public use shall be valid until such has been accepted in writing by the mayor and council.
(Code 1972, § 15-1; Code 1994, § 90-51)
Sec. 32-50. - Naming.
The mayor and council shall have the power to name public streets, erect street signs and change the names of streets.
(Code 1972, § 15-2; Code 1994, § 90-52)
Sec. 32-51. - Obstructions.
The city shall not and does not grant to any person the right to erect or maintain a structure or obstruction in a public street. It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed in any street or alley any dirt, lumber, building material, trash or other material or object so that such interferes with the free and unfettered use of the street or alley by the public or which interferes with surface water drainage.
(Code 1972, § 15-4; Code 1994, § 90-53)
State Law reference— Grant of right to obstruct public street prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-10.
Sec. 32-52. - Debris carried or dropped by vehicles.
(a)
No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon any public street any truck, wagon or other vehicle in and upon which sand, dirt, rocks, cement, garbage, trash, waste materials or other debris or materials are transported unless such vehicle shall be equipped with a cover or other device that will prevent such sand, dirt, rocks, cement, garbage, trash, waste materials or other debris or materials from falling from the vehicle onto the streets.
(b)
Any person performing work on private property which requires movement of vehicles from the public streets onto such private property shall be responsible for the cleanup of all dirt, mud, gravel or other debris tracked from the private property onto the public street by such vehicles. Cleanup of streets shall be completed no later than 5:00 p.m. of each day.
(c)
No person conducting a business adjacent to a public street shall maintain a yard or lot, pavement or covering of gravel or other substance in such a manner that the gravel or other substance is movable upon being walked upon or driven over by vehicles going to and from the place of business unless such material is so placed and maintained that the gravel or other substance will not get into or upon the adjacent public street.
(Code 1994, § 90-54; Ord. No. 91-3, § 1, 8-12-1991)
