ARTICLE III. - NOISE

Sec. 16-54. - Unlawful noise.
(a)
Noises deemed a nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made any noise plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet or more from the property on which the noise originates. Such noises shall be deemed to be a public nuisance.
(b)
Specific acts declared violations. The following acts are declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance notwithstanding the distance of its audibility:
(1)
The sounding of any horn, whistle, Klaxon, siren, audible signal device, bell or other similar device on any street or public place when such sound is not made in connection with a necessary alert, emergency situation or traffic warning.
(2)
The discharge into open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, diesel engine, boat motor, motor vehicle, truck, motorcycle, motorbike, motor scooter, go-cart or other vehicle except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud and explosive noises therefrom.
(3)
The operation of a radio, phonograph or television at a volume which carries the sound beyond the boundaries of the premises on which such is operated
(4)
Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on the public streets between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(5)
The keeping of any animal or fowl outdoors that makes a frequent or continuous sound.
(6)
The playing, using or operating, or permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public to any building or structure, unless authorized by the city as part of a permitted special event or authorized under section 16-55 below.
(7)
The use of or operation of any mechanical device, blower, hydraulic device, car crusher and compactor, machine or equipment, including by landscape contractors, between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Monday through Friday, before 9:00 a.m. or after 8:30 p.m. on Saturdays, Sundays and the following legal holidays: New Year (observed), Memorial Day (observed), Independence Day (observed), Labor Day (observed), Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day (observed), independent of whether they occur on a weekday or weekend.
(8)
Construction of any type, including but not limited to, the erection (including excavation), grading, demolition, alteration or repair of any buildings, as well as the operation of any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist, automatic nailer or stapler or any similar equipment exhibiting loud noise between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Monday through Friday, before 9:00 a.m. or after 8:30 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays and at any time on the following legal holidays: New Year (observed), Memorial Day (observed), Independence Day (observed), Labor Day (observed), Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day (observed).
(9)
The operating of any noise-creating blower or power fan or any internal combustion engine, the operating of which causes noise due to the explosion of operating gasses or fluids, unless the noise from the blower or fan is muffled and the engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to deaden the noise.
(10)
The shouting, crying, ringing of bells or other sounds made or caused to be made by peddlers, hawkers and vendors unless authorized as part of a permitted special event.
(11)
The dragging or hauling of any object on the public streets which creates noise plainly audible from a surrounding property.
(12)
Operating a motorized vehicle by rapid throttle advancing (revving) of an internal combustion engine resulting in increased noise from the engine.
(c)
Exemptions.
(1)
Emergency repair work as determined by the city is exempt from this section.
(2)
Utility and/or roadwork and repairs done under the approval or authority of the city, the county or the state are exempt from this section.
(Code 1972, § 8-1; Code 1994, § 38-91; Ord. No. 2018-08, § 1, 8-13-2018)
Sec. 16-55. - Sound amplification devices.
(a)
Nothing in section 16-54 shall be construed to prohibit the operation of a sound amplification device, whether stationary or attached to a vehicle, provided that the device is operated under the terms and conditions set out in this section.
(b)
If any person or organization desires permission to operate a sound amplification device for the purpose of advertising, soliciting, attracting attention, announcing a sporting event or exercising the right of free speech as guaranteed by the United States Constitution, he shall be allowed to do so only after he has applied for and received a permit from the mayor and council. Such operation without such permit is declared unlawful.
(c)
An application for a permit to operate a sound amplification device shall be in writing, filed with the city clerk, and shall set forth the equipment to be used, the place or route to be followed, the intensity of sound level expected, the purpose of such use and the days and hours such use is desired.
(d)
The mayor and council shall consider such application at its next regular meeting and shall exercise its reasonable discretion after considering all pertinent facts. The mayor and council may require the applicant to demonstrate the equipment before issuing the permit. The mayor and council shall not withhold a permit so as to deprive any person of his constitutional rights, but shall have the right to control sound and noise emitted in the city, and to place reasonable conditions on use of said equipment for the general health and welfare of its citizens. Each permit issued shall be issued for a specific term not exceeding three consecutive days and not more than ten days in a calendar month.
(Code 1972, § 8-2; Code 1994, § 38-92; Ord. No. 2018-08, § 1, 8-13-2018)
Secs. 16-56—16-83. - Reserved.
