Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Lake City, Georgia," and may be so cited. The Code may also be cited as the "Lake City Code" or the "city Code."
(Code 1972, § 1-1; Code 1994, § 1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances of the city, the rules of construction as contained in O.C.G.A. §§ 1-3-1 and 1-3-3 shall prevail, except that the following shall take precedence if in conflict with O.C.G.A. §§ 1-3-1 and 1-3-3:
City. The term "the city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the term "of Lake City" followed the term "city" and shall extend to and include its several officers, agents and employees.
City clerk. The term "city clerk" means the city clerk of the City of Lake City.
Code. The term "Code" means "The Code of the City of Lake City, Georgia," or the "Lake City Code."
Computation of time. When a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time, except hours, is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the person having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday provided for in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the person having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. In a provision involving two or more items, conditions, provisions or events, which items, conditions, provisions or events are connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either … or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, except that in appropriate cases the terms "or" and "and" are interchangeable:
(1)
"And" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply.
(2)
"Or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
"Either … or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly but not in combination.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means the County of Clayton in the State of Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a section appears requiring the head of a department of the city to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize him to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act, unless the terms of the section designate otherwise.
Employee. The term "employee" means an employee of the city.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Governing authority, governing body. The term "governing authority" or "governing body" means the mayor and city council of the City of Lake City, Georgia.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. All terms giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or by a servant, agent or employee.
Mayor. The term "mayor" means the mayor of the City of Lake City.
Mayor and council. The term "mayor and council" means the mayor and council of the City of Lake City.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. Any word importing the singular number shall include the plural and any word importing the plural number shall include the singular.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Officials and officers. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only (i.e., "city clerk," "chief of police," etc.), the reference shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions and departments of the City of Lake City.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety of the whole or of a part of such building or land. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal or equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate, as well as to individuals.
Shall, may. "Shall" is mandatory, and "may" is permissive.
State. The term "the state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public streets and ways in the city and shall embrace all parts thereof constituting the designated right-of-way.
Tenant, occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The term "week" means seven days.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1972, § 1-2; Code 1994, § 1-2; Ord. No. 05-01, § 1, 6-13-2005)
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; time, O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and reference notes.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections or as any part of the section nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 1972, § 1-3; Code 1994, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect or any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(c)
An ordinance which is in conflict in its entirety with a subsequent ordinance shall be deemed to be repealed in its entirety, even if no specific repealer is stated. If an ordinance is only partially in conflict with a subsequent ordinance, only the portion of the previous ordinance in conflict with the subsequent ordinance shall be deemed to have been repealed, even if a specific repealer is not stated.
(Code 1972, § 1-4; Code 1994, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Severability.
(a)
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that all sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are or were, upon their enactment, believed by the mayor and council to be fully valid, enforceable and constitutional.
(b)
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, each and every section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code is severable from every other section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code. It is hereby further declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, no section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code is mutually dependent upon any other section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code.
(c)
In the event that any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall, for any reason whatsoever, be declared invalid, unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, it is the express intent of the mayor and council that such invalidity, unconstitutionality or unenforceability shall, to the greatest extent allowed by law, not render invalid, unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of this Code and that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, all remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code shall remain valid, constitutional, enforceable, and of full force and effect.
(Code 1972, § 1-5; Code 1994, § 1-5; Ord. No. 00-06, § 1, 9-11-2000)
Sec. 1-6. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. If chapters, sections or subsections or any parts thereof are repealed by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the mayor and council.
(b)
Amendments to any section of this Code shall be made by amending such section by specific reference to the section number of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section _____ of The Code of the City of Lake City, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new section shall then be set out in full.
(c)
If a new section not existing in the Code is to be added, language substantially similar to the following shall be used: "That The Code of the City of Lake City, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which said section (or article or chapter) reads as follows:…." The new section, article or chapter shall then be set out in full.
(Code 1972, § 1-6; Code 1994, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the mayor and council, which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
(Code 1972, § 1-7; Code 1994, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty.
(a)
In this section the phrase "violation of this Code" or "violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance" means any of the following:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code, or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section the phrase "violation of this Code" or "violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty unless it is specifically provided that the failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
Unless a higher penalty is otherwise specified, whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in this Code or any ordinance the doing of any act is required and the failure to do such act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided, and unless otherwise provided by state law, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and imprisonment in the city or county jail and work and labor on the streets or public works of the city, whether within or without the corporate limits, not exceeding 180 days, or both a fine and sentence of imprisonment and labor; and all sentences may be in the alternative and fines may be imposed with the alternative of sentence to imprisonment and labor if the fines are not paid. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(d)
Violations of this Code may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief.
(e)
The infliction of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the city's Charter or this Code.
(Code 1972, § 1-8; Code 1994, § 1-8; Ord. of 9-28-1972)
State Law reference— Maximum sentences and fines which may be imposed for violation of municipal ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).
Sec. 1-9. - Right of entry.
Whenever any officer or employee is required or authorized by any state law, any section of this Code or any ordinance or resolution or rule or order issued thereunder to enter any premises or vehicle for the purpose of making an inspection of the premises or vehicle or of anything contained in the premises or vehicle for the purpose of carrying out his duties, such officer or employee shall have the right to enter any such premises or vehicle at any reasonable time in pursuance of such duties, provided that such entry and inspection shall be made in a lawful manner.
(Code 1972, § 1-8; Code 1994, § 1-9; Ord. of 9-28-1972)
Sec. 1-10. - Provisions considered as continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this and the following chapters and sections, so far as they are the same as those of ordinances or resolutions existing at the time of the adoption of this Code, shall be considered as a continuation thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-11. - Prior offenses, penalties and rights not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty of forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city repealed in this chapter, and all general ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing and not a new enactment of the same ordinance. This chapter shall not be deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue or as affecting the liability of any person or as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or section thereof in force at the time of the adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-12. - Rates, charges, and fees established.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided for, all rates, charges, or fees necessary for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this Code shall be as currently established or as hereafter adopted by motion, resolution or ordinance of the city council, from time to time. Any rates, charges, or fees established by the city pursuant to the regulations or requirements established in this Code may be changed from time to time by the mayor and council, and such changes shall both be considered an amendment to this Code.
(b)
Whenever any provision of this Code provides that a rate, charge, or fee shall be established by the city council, from time to time, and the amount of such rate, charge, or fee is not expressed in this Code in any dollar amount, then the amount of such rate, charge, or fee shall be the most recent and latest amount established, set or fixed by the mayor and council by ordinance, resolution or motion.
Sec. 1-13. - Miscellaneous ordinances, resolutions and actions not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract, established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness or any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(3)
Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of the mayor and council to any person.
(4)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening or vacating any street or public way in the city.
(5)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code.
(6)
Ordinances prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations, prescribing through streets, bus stops, taxi stands, parking prohibitions, parking limitations, one-way traffic, limitations on load of vehicles or loading zones, consistent with this Code.
(7)
Any specific rezoning ordinance or any amendment thereto.
(8)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city.
(11)
Any ordinance extending the boundaries of the city.
(12)
Any ordinance or resolution fixing the salary of any city officer or employee, unless superseded.
(13)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and/or prescribing employment, benefits, and/or personnel policies and procedures.
(14)
Any right of franchise granted by the city to any person, firm, or corporation.
(15)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(16)
Any ordinance or resolution which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(17)
Any ordinance or resolution describing or altering the boundaries of the city or annexing property to the city.
(18)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(19)
Any ordinance or resolution of agreement with another political subdivision.
(20)
Any other ordinance or resolution, or part thereof, which is not of a general and permanent nature; or which is referred to elsewhere in this Code as continuing in effect.
(b)
Nor shall the repeal of any such ordinance or resolution be construed to revive any ordinance, resolution or part thereof that has been repealed or superseded by a subsequent ordinance or resolution which is repealed or superseded by this chapter. All such ordinances, resolutions and actions are recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Code 1994, § 1-10; Ord. of 6-8-1972, § 3)
Sec. 1-14. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared at least on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-15. - Default time limit.
Whenever this Code provides for the performance of any official act or decision by any person or entity, but fails specifically to provide a time limit for performance of the official act or the rendering of the decision, the act shall be performed or the decision rendered within 30 days of the event rendering the performance of the act necessary or possible. If the final day for performance of the act or rendering of the decision falls on a weekend or a legal holiday on which the government offices of the city are closed, then the final day shall be extended to the next weekday on which the government offices of the city are open.
(Ord. No. 00-05, § 1, 9-11-2000)
