Chapter 24 - OFFENSES[1]

Sec. 24-1. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the unincorporated areas of the county to engage in any conduct described in the following subsections:
(1)
To act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any person is placed in fear of the safety of his life, limb, or health;
(2)
To act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being damaged or destroyed;
(3)
To cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health, or property of another;
(4)
To assemble or congregate with another for the purpose of or with the intent to engage in gaming;
(5)
To be in or about any place, along or with another with the purpose of or intent to engage in any fraudulent scheme, trick or device to obtain any money or valuable thing; or to aid or abet any person or persons in doing so;
(6)
To be in or about any place where gaming or the illegal sale or possession of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs (controlled substances) is practiced, allowed or tolerated, for the purpose of or intent to engage in gaming or the purchase, use, possession or consumption of such illegal drugs, narcotics or alcoholic beverages;
(7)
To direct fighting words toward another, that is, words which by their very nature tend to incite a breach of the peace;
(8)
To interfere, by acts of physical obstruction, with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation;
(9)
To congregate with another in or on any public way or grounds so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic, and to fail to clear that public way or grounds after being ordered to do so by a county law officer or other lawful authority;
(10)
To disrupt, by actions which tend to incite a breach of peace, the activities of any house of worship, hospital, home for the elderly or any gathering, or procession;
(11)
To throw bottles, paper, cans, glass, sticks, stones, missiles, or any other debris on public property; or
(12)
To be and appear in an intoxicated condition in any public place or within the curtilage of any private residence not their own other than by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant, which condition is made manifest by boisterousness, by indecent condition or act, or by vulgar, profane, or loud unbecoming language.
(Ord. of 12-11-1995, ยง A)
Sec. 24-2. - Jurisdiction.
The magistrate court of the county shall have jurisdiction to try the offense described in section 24-1.
(Ord. of 12-11-1995, ยง C)
Sec. 24-3. - Prosecution by law enforcement.
State-accredited law enforcement officers or any other legally designated agents of the county may prosecute these chapter violations.
(Ord. of 12-11-1995, ยง D)
Sec. 24-4. - Law enforcement officials notified of scheduled court dates.
Law enforcement officials will be notified 30 days prior to scheduled court dates and the location of the court proceeding.
(Ord. of 12-11-1995, ยง E)
