Chapter 18 - HEALTH REGULATIONS[1]

Sec. 18-1. - Code enforcement of rules and regulations of the county board of health.
modified
There are currently in existence certain rules and regulations adopted by the county board of health with the purpose of preserving the public health, safety, and welfare of citizens of the county. This chapter specifically incorporates by reference the provision of the following rules and regulations which are in force at the time of the adoption of this chapter and as amended:
(1)
Rules and regulations pertaining to rabies control (adopted by the county board of health and being the county board of health rule II as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the county board of health pertaining to rabies control;
(2)
Rules and regulations for on-site sewage management systems (adopted by the department of human resources (ch. 290-5-26-.01-.20) and the county board of health and being the county board of health rule III as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the county board of health pertaining to on-site sewage management systems;
(3)
Rules and regulations pertaining to on-site water supplies (adopted by the county board of health and being the county board of health rule IV as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the county board of health pertaining to on-site water supplies;
(4)
Rules and regulations pertaining to food service (adopted by the department of human resources (ch. 290-5-14) and the county board of health and being the county board of health rule V as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the county board of health pertaining to food service;
(5)
Rules and regulations pertaining to public swimming pools, spas, and recreational water parks (adopted by the department of human resources (ch. 290-5-57) and the county board of health and being the county board of health rule VI as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the county board of health pertaining to public swimming pools, spas, and recreational water parks;
(6)
Rules and regulations pertaining to tourist accommodations (adopted by the department of human resources (ch. 290-5-18) and the county board of health and being the county board of health rule VI as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the county board of health pertaining to tourist accommodations;
(7)
Rules and regulations pertaining to body art (adopted by the county board of health and being the county board of health rule VIII as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the county board of health pertaining to body art.
(Ord. of 10-9-1989, ยง I)
Sec. 18-2. - Implementation and enforcement.
modified
The duty of implementation and enforcement of these regulations rests with the county board of commissioners, and by virtue of this chapter is hereby expressly delegated to the county board of health who is hereby charged with promulgation of sufficient procedures for ensuring compliance with these rules and regulations by the citizens of the county. The county board of health is directed to implement procedures which will ensure that the citizens of the county will receive all procedural rights to which they are entitled under the laws of the state.
(Ord. of 10-9-1989, ยง II)
Sec. 18-3. - Penalty.
modified
Any violation of the rules and regulations hereby referenced shall be a violation of this chapter and shall be a misdemeanor offense. Any violator shall be subject to the general penalties described in section 1-14. Any failure of payment of inspection fees listed within the fee schedule adopted by the county board of health and approved by the county board of commissioners within 60 days of first notice, may result in suspension of permit.
(Ord. of 10-9-1989, ยง III)
Sec. 18-4. - Magistrate's court jurisdiction.
modified
The magistrate's court of the county shall have jurisdiction over violators of this chapter and all procedures for enforcement of such chapter shall be as provided in article 4, ch. 10 of title 15, Official Code of Georgia. Complaints of violation of any provision of this chapter shall be brought before the magistrate's court by a designated representative of the county board of health and shall be prosecuted through that court.
(Ord. of 10-9-1989, ยง IV)
