Chapter 18 - ANIMALS
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Animal regulations, § 1.13(2).
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 46.
State Constitution reference—Animal control by municipalities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III.
State Law reference— Livestock running at large or straying, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-1 et seq.; permitting dogs in heat to roam or run free, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-6; Dangerous Dog Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; Georgia Animal Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.; cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4; control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.; notification of bites by animals, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-4; liability of owner or keeper of vicious or dangerous animal for injuries caused by animal, O.C.G.A. § 51-2-7.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 18-1. - City designated as bird sanctuary; prohibited acts enumerated.
(a)
The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is designated as a bird sanctuary.
(b)
It is unlawful for any person to kill, shoot, trap, snare, poison or otherwise maim or injure any bird within the city, or to attempt to do any of these things or otherwise do any act which would destroy or diminish bird life in the city, including the destruction of nests, feeding places, housing facilities or other places of habitation for birds.
(Code 1995, § 6.04.010)
Cross reference— Offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 62.
Sec. 18-2. - Livestock restricted in city.
(a)
It is unlawful for any person to keep any hogs, cattle, sheep, goats, horses, mules, poultry or any other such animals for commercial purposes.
(b)
It is unlawful for any person to keep any hogs, cattle, sheep, goats, horses, mules, poultry or any other such animal in a shed, pen, stall or other such enclosure within 400 feet of any residence or within 500 feet of any public street in the city.
(Code 1995, § 6.04.020)
Sec. 18-3. - Impoundment; notice; redemption prohibited in certain instances.
(a)
The following animals shall be subject to impoundment by the city, its agents and employees:
(1)
All dogs upon which a valid tag indicating inoculation against rabies is not appropriately attached as provided in section 18-43.
(2)
Any dog which, in the opinion of the animal control officer, creates a public nuisance by loud noise, offensive odors, destruction of property or landscape, vicious or intimidating behavior, and defecation on property other than that belonging to the owner of such dog.
(3)
Any female dogs found at large in violation of section 18-44.
(4)
Any dog whose ownership is unknown.
(5)
Any dog running at large.
(6)
All animals determined to be a public nuisance under this chapter.
(b)
Notice of the impoundment shall be given immediately by mail or telephone call to the owner of the impounded dog, if such owner may be ascertained.
(c)
The notice of impoundment shall contain a general description of the animal impounded, including color, sex and breed, if readily ascertainable.
(d)
Any dog or other animal impounded for being a public nuisance may not be redeemed unless such redemption is authorized by any court having jurisdiction.
(e)
When, in the judgment of the city or its agents, an animal should be destroyed for humane reasons, such animal may not be redeemed.
(Code 1995, § 6.04.030)
Sec. 18-4. - Disposal; redemption; costs and expenses.
(a)
If, following impoundment, a dog or other animal is not claimed or redeemed by its owner within seven days of impoundment for dogs wearing a collar and tag or three days of impoundment for dogs wearing no tag, as provided for thereafter, the city may dispose of such dog by any of the following methods:
(1)
The dog may be placed in an adoptive home.
(2)
The dog or other animal may be sold.
(3)
The dog or other animal may be destroyed by such a humane method as the city may deem appropriate.
(b)
The owner of the impounded dog or other animal may claim the dog or other animal and it may be redeemed by its owner upon payment to the city the costs and expenses of impounding and keeping the dog or other animal, such costs and expenses to be determined from time to time by the mayor and city council.
(Code 1995, § 6.04.040)
Sec. 18-5. - Abandonment of any domestic animal.
It shall be unlawful to abandon any domestic animal.
(Ord. of 12-5-2005, § I)
Sec. 18-6. - Cruelty to animals.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, either by act or omission, to:
(1)
Overdraw, overload, torture, torment, or deprive any animal of necessary sustenance or to beat, mutilate, intentionally poison, or kill any animal or cause same to be done, or to carry or confine any animal in or upon a vehicle in an inhumane manner, or to otherwise treat any animal in a cruel or inhumane manner;
(2)
Keep or confine any animal where the water, shelter, ventilation, and food are not sufficient and wholesome for the preservation of an animal of its size, species, and breed;
(3)
Keep any animal in unsanitary conditions or in such a place or condition as to become a nuisance because of odor or contagion of disease;
(4)
Promote any fight between animals or to allow or permit any fight in or upon any premises in that person's possession or under that person's control; or
(5)
Abandon any animal on any public street, road, alley, or property, or to abandon any animal on private property when not in the care of another person.
(b)
This section shall not apply to conduct which is otherwise permitted under the laws of this state or of the United States, including, but not limited to, raising animals for agricultural or food purposes, hunting wild animals in compliance with the laws of the State of Georgia, killing or injuring animals for humane purposes or in the furtherance of medical or scientific research, defending, or protecting one's person or property from injury or damage, pest control practices, or the authorized practice of veterinary medicine, which authorized practice shall include, but shall not be limited to, ear cropping, tail docking, and claw removal.
(Ord. of 12-5-2005, § I)
Secs. 18-7—18-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DOGS

Sec. 18-41. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Owner of the animal means a person who owns, harbors or keeps or knowingly permits an animal to be harbored or kept or has an animal in his care, or who permits an animal to remain on or about his premises.
Premises means a parcel of land and the structures thereon.
Registered dog means an animal licensed by the city as provided in this article.
Running at large means any dog that is not:
(1)
Under the control of its owner or other responsible person by means of a leash, cord, rope, strap, chain or lead held by such owner or person and securely fastened to the collar or harness attached to the animal;
(2)
Securely enclosed by fence or by a radio controlled underground or above ground fence, confined, or restrained on premises where it may lawfully be so as to be unable to enter upon the public way or to molest persons lawfully using the public way.
Vaccination means protection against rabies by inoculation with an antirabies vaccine, given in an amount sufficient to provide immunity from rabies for a minimum of one year.
(Code 1995, § 6.08.010; Ord. of 12-5-2005, §§ II, III)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-42. - Rabies inoculation.
All dogs over 90 days old within the city shall be inoculated annually so as to provide immunity from rabies for a period of at least one year. All inoculations shall be administered by a licensed veterinarian.
(Code 1995, § 6.08.020)
Sec. 18-43. - Rabies tags required.
A valid rabies vaccination tag shall be securely attached to a collar or harness. The owner shall see that the collar or harness is attached and secured to the dog at all times.
(Code 1995, § 6.08.030)
Sec. 18-44. - Female dog in heat.
Every female dog in heat shall be kept confined in a building or secure enclosure, or in a veterinary hospital or board kennel, in such manner that the female dog cannot come in contact with another animal, except for breeding purposes.
(Code 1995, § 6.08.040)
Sec. 18-45. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of subsections 18-41(1) and (2) shall be entitled to one warning. Thereafter any violation of the above sections subject the violator to the penalties imposed by section 1-12 of this Code.
(Ord. of 12-5-2005, § I)
