Chapter 14 - AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Special areas of public regulation, § 1.13(35).
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 26.
State Law reference— Standard Amusement Device Code, O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-20, 8-2-25; Sunday motion picture shows and athletic events, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-550 et seq.; replays on coin-operated devices, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35; bingo, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-50 et seq.; Amusement Ride Safety Act, O.C.G.A. § 34-12-1 et seq.; Carnival Ride Safety Act, O.C.G.A. § 34-13-1 et seq.; operators of billiard rooms, O.C.G.A. § 43-8-1 et seq.; public dancehalls, O.C.G.A. § 43-21-50 et seq.; application of dancehall law within municipal limits, O.C.G.A. § 43-21-58.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 14-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Arcade means a location where more than three noncash redemption machines as described in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(c) or 16-12-35(d) are operated.
Bona fide coin-operated amusement machine includes coin-operated amusement machines and means:
(1)
Every machine of any kind or character used by the public to provide amusement or entertainment the operation of which requires the payment of or the insertion of a coin, bill, other money, token, ticket or similar object and the result of which the operation depends in whole or in part upon the skill of the player, whether or not it affords an award to a successful player pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(b)—(g), and which can be legally shipped interstate according to federal law. Examples of bona fide coin-operated amusement machines include, but are expressly not limited to, the following:
a.
Pinball machines;
b.
Console machines;
c.
Video games;
d.
Crane machines;
e.
Claw machines;
f.
Pusher machines;
g.
Bowling machines;
h.
Novelty arcade games;
i.
Foosball or table soccer machines;
j.
Miniature racetrack, football or golf machines;
k.
Target or shooting gallery machines;
l.
Basketball machines;
m.
Shuffleboard games;
n.
Kiddie ride games;
o.
Skeeball machines;
p.
Air hockey machines;
q.
Roll down machines;
r.
Trivia machines;
s.
Laser games;
t.
Simulator games;
u.
Virtual reality machines;
v.
Matchup or lineup games which require the player to use skill stops to complete the game;
w.
Maze games;
x.
Racing games;
y.
Coin-operated pool tables or coin-operated billiard tables as defined in O.C.G.A. § 43-8-1(3); and
z.
Any other similar amusement machine, which can be legally operated in the state.
(2)
Every machine of any kind or character used by the public to provide music the operation of which requires the payment of or the insertion of a coin, bill, other money, token, ticket or similar object such as jukeboxes or other similar types of music machines.
License means a license issued by the city to operate an arcade.
Location means a separate building.
Registrant means any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, organization or other entity who, as the owner, lessee or beneficiary has under his or its control any location, establishment, place or premises in or at which bona fide coin-operated amusement machines are placed or kept for use or play, or on exhibition for the purpose of use or play by the general public.
(Ord. of 11-6-2000(2), § 5.20.010)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-32. - Penalties for violation.
(a)
Violation of this article shall be punishable as a misdemeanor local ordinance violation and shall include one or more of the following penalties:
(1)
A monetary fine up to a maximum of $1,000.00.
(2)
Maximum imprisonment of 60 days.
(3)
Suspension or revocation of the registrant's arcade license and any other county licenses held by the registrant, including, but not limited to, licenses for the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(4)
Revocation of machine registration and prohibition of machine operation at any location which does not require an arcade license.
(b)
In addition to subsection (a) of this section, the city or its designee may notify the appropriate state agencies of any violations pertaining to the improper use of bona fide coin-operated amusement machines. The agencies to be notified may include, but not be limited to, the state revenue department, the state bureau of investigation, and the board of directors of the Georgia Lottery Corporation, and violators may be prosecuted under O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35, and any other applicable provision of state or federal law.
(Ord. of 11-6-2000(2), § 5.20.140)
Sec. 14-33. - Registration required.
No registrant shall make available for use within the city limits any bona fide coin-operated amusement machine unless:
(1)
A copy of the owner's state master license is prominently displayed at the location where any such machine is available for use, and the required sticker is securely attached to the machine pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-17-1 et seq.;
(2)
The bona fide coin-operated amusement machine is registered with the city council; and
(3)
If required, the bona fide coin-operated amusement machine is located and used in an arcade which has been duly licensed under division 2 of this article.
(Ord. of 11-6-2000(2), § 5.20.020)
Sec. 14-34. - No registration or license fees.
No registration fee shall be required to register a bona fide coin-operated amusement machine. No license fee shall be required to license an arcade.
(Ord. of 11-6-2000(2), § 5.20.030)
Sec. 14-35. - Machine registration form.
The machine registration shall be filed in writing on a form to be provided by the city and shall specify:
(1)
The name and address of the registrant, and if a firm, corporation, partnership, or association, the principal officers thereof and their addresses;
(2)
Registrants shall list the location and address of the premises where the licensed machine or machines are to be operated, together with the character of the business as carried on at such place;
(3)
Registrants shall list the number of machines to be maintained on the premises;
(4)
The name and address of the owner of the machine or machines, if other than the registrant;
(5)
Specific identifying information on the type of each machine, its function and operation, and its state license number; and
(6)
Other identifying information about the registrant's business including, but not limited to, federal employer identification and state sales tax numbers, and other pertinent information.
(Ord. of 11-6-2000(2), § 5.20.040)
Sec. 14-36. - Operating regulation.
All registrants under this article shall be subject to the following regulations:
(1)
Gambling prohibited. Gambling devices or any gambling on the premises is prohibited. Only noncash redemption is permitted as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(a.1)—(g). Nothing in this article shall be construed to authorize, permit or license any gambling device of any nature whatsoever or any gambling contrary to state law.
(2)
Machines to be kept in plain view. All such machines shall at all times be kept and placed in plain view of and open and accessible to any person or persons who may frequent any place of business where such devices are kept or used for play by the public.
(3)
Inspection. The city police shall inspect or cause the inspection of any place in which any such machines are operated or set up for operation, and shall investigate and test such machines as needed.
(4)
Attendant required. It shall be unlawful for any registrant to open his business to the public unless an employee of the registrant is present. The attendant shall be of sufficient mental and physical capacity so as to be able to provide aid to patrons if needed or desired.
(5)
Refunds and adjustments. Refunds and adjustments to all customers shall be the responsibility of the registrant of the location of the machine in question; however, such refunds or adjustments shall not include refunds for any unused games or credits.
(6)
Gross income requirements. No registrant shall derive more than 50 percent of such registrant's annual income from the business location in which the amusement machine or machines are situated from amusement machines that provide for noncash redemption as described in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(c) or (d). For the purpose of this section, annual income is the sum of the total gross receipts generated by the registrant's business at the business location where the machines are located in a calendar year. Upon request by the local government, the registrant shall provide the necessary financial documents from the registrant in order to verify the amount of annual income and the amount of such income generated from the bona fide coin-operated amusement machines as described in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(c) or (d).
(7)
Sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages. No registrant who holds an arcade license shall allow the sale, consumption or use of alcoholic beverages on his premises.
(Ord. of 11-6-2000(2), § 5.20.060)
Secs. 14-37—14-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ARCADE LICENSE

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 26.
Sec. 14-61. - Required.
Any registrant who proposes to locate more than three noncash redemption machines in any place of business, any business premises, or any other location shall be required to apply for and receive a valid arcade license prior to placing such machines into operation. An application for an arcade license shall be made in writing on forms prescribed by the city.
(Ord. of 11-6-2000(2), § 5.20.070)
Sec. 14-62. - Plat required; distance requirements.
(a)
Every application for a license to operate an arcade in the city shall be accompanied by a plat prepared by a registered surveyor showing the location of the proposed arcade and the distances between the main entrance of the proposed arcade and all adjoining lands, as hereafter provided.
(b)
No license for the operation of an arcade shall be issued for any location within 350 yards:
(1)
Of the property line of a private residential dwelling.
(2)
Of the property line of any public library or branch of any public library.
(3)
From the property line of any church, shrine, chapel of a mortuary or other place used exclusively for religious purposes.
(4)
Of the property line of any school or college campus. The schools and colleges referred to in this subsection shall include only such public, private or church-supported schools which teach the subjects commonly taught in the public schools and colleges of this state, and shall not include private schools or colleges wherein a specialized subject such as business, music, art, vocational occupations and other special subjects are taught.
(5)
Any premises holding a license for the consumption of alcoholic beverages.
(c)
The distance requirements set out in subsection (b) of this section shall apply in any and all directions from the main entrance door of the proposed location, as measured in a straight line. The plat shall accompany and be made a part of the application for such license.
(Ord. of 11-6-2000(2), § 5.20.080)
Sec. 14-63. - Considerations for license approval.
(a)
In determining whether or not an arcade license applied for under this division shall be granted, renewed, transferred or issued to a new location, in addition to all the provisions of this section, the following shall be considered to be in the public interest and welfare:
(1)
Reputation, character. The registrant's reputation, character, trade and business associations or past business ventures, mental and physical capacity to conduct this business.
(2)
Previous violations of license laws. If the registrant is a previous holder of an arcade license in the city or in any other jurisdiction and has violated any law, regulation or ordinance relating to such business.
(3)
Manner of conducting prior arcade business. If the registrant is a previous holder of an arcade license, the manner in which he conducted the business thereunder, especially as to the necessity for unusual police observation and inspection in order to prevent the violation of any law, regulation or ordinance relating to such business.
(4)
Location. The location for which the license is sought, as to traffic congestion, general character of the neighborhood, and the effect such an establishment would have on the adjacent and surrounding property values.
(5)
Number of licenses in general area. The number of licenses already granted for arcades in the general area of the place for which the license is sought.
(6)
Previous revocation of license. If the registrant has had any license issued under the police powers of any governing authority previously suspended or revoked, or has had an arcade license suspended or revoked.
(7)
Payment of taxes and other charges. Whether or not the registrant or business is delinquent in the payment of any local taxes or other fees or charges.
(8)
Prior incidents. Evidence that a substantial number of incidents requiring police intervention have occurred within the immediate area during the 12 months immediately preceding the date of application.
(9)
Previous denial or revocation. The denial of an application, or the revocation of a license, occurring within the preceding 12 months, which was based on the qualifications of the proposed location.
(b)
All licenses granted under this division are privilege licenses and shall expire on December 31 of each year. Registrants who desire to renew their licenses shall file an application therefor with the permit office of the city for such renewal, upon forms approved by the city, on or before December 1 of each year. Any licenses that have been placed on probation, suspension or have been revoked by the city during the year shall be submitted on a separate list for review and further consideration.
(c)
Upon renewal of a license to operate an arcade, verified records of sales from amusement games as they relate to the total annual income of the business shall be furnished. Verifications must be submitted by both the license holder and the management of the establishment. The city may cause an audit of the books of a business holding an arcade license to be made at any time. Failure of a registrant who holds a license to operate an arcade to cooperate in the execution of the audit shall be a violation of this division.
(Ord. of 11-6-2000(2), § 5.20.090)
Sec. 14-64. - Eligibility for license.
The following individuals and organizations are not eligible for an arcade license:
(1)
A person or persons or a corporation, partnership or other form of business organization in which any of the officers, directors or partners have been convicted of a felony in any jurisdiction. A conviction, for purposes of this subsection, includes a guilty plea or plea of nolo contendere.
(2)
A person or persons or a corporation, partnership or other form of business organization in which any of the officers, directors or partners have been convicted in any jurisdiction of a nonfelonious crime of moral turpitude, lottery, gambling or illegal possession or sale of narcotics or alcoholic beverages within the five years preceding the filing of the application. A conviction, for purposes of this subsection, includes a guilty plea or plea of nolo contendere.
(3)
A person whose license to operate an arcade has been revoked for cause in any state or territory of the United States within the ten years preceding the filing of the application.
(4)
A person who has knowingly falsified information or made any material misrepresentation on the application for a license under this division or any application under chapter 10, article II, division 2, pertaining to alcoholic beverage licenses, submitted within the ten years preceding the filing of the application.
(5)
Should any such registrant or partner, officer or director of any registrant entity, after a license had been granted, be convicted of or plead guilty or nolo contendere to a crime involving moral turpitude, or to the violation of any laws of the state regulating gambling or the lottery laws, such license shall be subject after hearing to immediate suspension or revocation.
(Ord. of 11-6-2000(2), § 5.020.100)
Sec. 14-65. - Application for license.
All registrants for a license to operate an arcade shall give notice of their intention to make such application by advertisement in the form prescribed by the city. Advertising, as referred to in this section, means there shall be a sign posted 30 days prior to the hearing of the application in a prominent position on the property (where it can be read from the road); also, all new registrants shall be required to advertise three times in the legal organ before applications are heard by the city council. Advertising in the newspaper shall be during the 30-day period prior to the hearing of the application by the city council. Before the application is presented to the city council, the registrant shall furnish proof that the advertisement has been completed as required in this section.
(Ord. of 11-6-2000(2), § 5.20.110)
Sec. 14-66. - License not transferable.
No license to operate an arcade may be sold, transferred or assigned by a registrant, or by operation of law, to any other person or persons, corporation, partnership or other business entity, or to any other location or any expansion of an existing location. Any such sale, transfer or assignment or attempted sale, transfer or assignment shall be deemed to constitute a voluntary surrender of such license, and such license shall thereafter be null and void, provided and excepting, however, that if the registrant is a partnership and one or more of the partners should die, or one or more of the surviving partners may acquire, by purchase or otherwise, the interest of the deceased partner or partners without effecting a surrender or termination of such license, and in such case the license, upon notification to the permit office, shall be placed in the name of the surviving partner. A license to operate an arcade issued to a corporation shall be deemed terminated and void when either any outstanding stock of the corporation is sold, transferred or assigned after the issuance of a license, or any stock authorized but not issued at the time of the granting of a license is thereafter issued and sold, transferred or assigned.
(Ord. of 11-6-2000(2), § 5.20.120)
Sec. 14-67. - Right of suspension.
The city council shall have the right to temporarily suspend any license issued under this division whenever a person, firm, corporation or other business organization doing business under this division shall deviate from the normal operation for which the license was obtained or fails in performance to meet the required regulations and codes set forth by the city council, or county health department; or violates any law, ordinance or regulation of the United States, the state, or the city; or when it shall be proven before the city council or its designated hearing officer that there is a violation of nuisance law; or when the health, interests and safety of the public demand the suspension of such license. The hearing officer shall report the suspension of such license to the next regular or called meeting of the city council; then the license shall be suspended, placed on probation or permanently revoked, or otherwise it shall be restored and remain in full force.
(Ord. of 11-6-2000(2), § 5.20.130)
