Chapter 22 - FIRE PREVENTION

Sec. 22-1. - Adoption of Gwinnett County Fire Code.
The City Council adopts and incorporates by reference the Fire Code within Gwinnett County Code of Ordinances, Chapter 46, Article II, as may be amended from time to time, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life or property from fire and explosion; the same is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this chapter, and from the date on which this chapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the City.
(Code 2005, § 10-101)
Sec. 22-2. - Modifications of terms.
The aforementioned County Code provisions incorporated by reference in section 22-1 shall be considered amended in any manner necessary to change the wording to express the intent of adoption and incorporation. "City of Lawrenceville, Georgia" shall replace references to "Gwinnett County." "Mayor and Council of the City of Lawrenceville, Georgia" shall replace "Board of Commissioners" where appropriate.
(Code 2005, § 10-102)
Sec. 22-3. - Amendments to the Gwinnett County Fire Preventive Ordinance.
(a)
The following specific amendments to the Gwinnett County Fire Preventive Ordinance are adopted for application within the City of Lawrenceville:
(1)
Section 7, Waivers is deleted and in lieu thereof the following provision is substituted:
Administrative Variances of O.C.G.A. Title 30, Chapter 3. The Fire Marshal, or his assistant, is authorized to grant exemptions from the provisions of the Official Code of Georgia, Title 30, Chapter 3, with regard to the access and use of facilities by handicapped persons. The decision of the Fire Marshal on said exemptions may be appealed to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(2)
Gwinnett County Code § 46-36, Appeals, is deleted and in lieu thereof the following provision is substituted:
Appeals and Administrative Variances. Any appeal or request for a variance from the provisions of this chapter shall be submitted in writing to the Fire Marshal's Office with the explanation and reasons for the variance. In response thereto, the Fire Marshal's Office shall furnish a statement as to the purpose of the requirement with their recommendations on the request. Both statements shall then be submitted to the Zoning Board of Appeals for final disposition.
(3)
Gwinnett County Code § 46-28, Enforcement of article, is deleted and in lieu thereof the following provision is substituted:
The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by authorized officers of the Gwinnett County Department of Fire and Emergency Services, authorized officers of the Gwinnett County Department of Police Services, or authorized officers of the City of Lawrenceville Police Department.
(b)
All violations shall be returned to the Municipal Court of the City where the violation falls within the jurisdictional limits of said Court.
(Code 2005, § 10-103)
