ARTICLE XIII. - NO USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS WITHIN OR UPON COUNTY-OWNED OR OPERATED PROPERTY

Sec. 34-601. - Findings and purpose.
(a)
The Board of Commissioners of Lee County hereby finds that:
(1)
Numerous studies have found that tobacco smoke is a major source and a contributor to indoor air pollution.
(2)
Numerous reliable studies, including those published by the Surgeon General of the United States, have shown that the inhalation of smoke injected into the atmosphere by the use of tobacco products in all forms, including cigarette smoking and vaping by others is a cause of and contributing factor to disease, including, without limitation, lung cancer in healthy non-smokers.
(3)
The board further finds that the use of other tobacco products, including chewing tobacco, creates health hazards.
(4)
It is the obligation of employers, businesses, and governmental entities to use their best efforts in furnishing a safe environment for their employees and customers.
(b)
The purpose of this article is to protect the health of non-smokers within and upon county-owned and county-operated property.
( Ord. of 11-12-2019 )
Sec. 34-602. - Use of tobacco products.
(a)
For the purpose of this article, the term "use of tobacco products" includes smoking, chewing tobacco, and vaping.
(b)
No person shall smoke or carry a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or match, or use any spark, flame, or fire-producing device, for the purpose of smoking within or upon any property owned or operated by Lee County.
(c)
No person shall smoke or use any artificial device intended to establish or replicate in an artificial manner cigar, cigarette, or pipe smoking, (hereinafter "artificial device") such activity being commonly referred to as "vaping" within or upon any property owned or operated by Lee County.
(d)
No personal shall use or chew chewing tobacco within or upon any property owned or operated by the Lee County.
( Ord. of 11-12-2019 )
Sec. 34-603. - Signs.
There shall be conspicuously posted, in every building owned or operated by Lee County and upon the grounds of every building owned or operated by Lee County, signs or placards notifying all persons that the use of tobacco products is prohibited at such location. Such signs shall contain letters not less than two inches in height indicating "No Use of Tobacco Products" within or upon the premises.
( Ord. of 11-12-2019 )
Sec. 34-604. - Violation.
No person shall use tobacco products within or upon any property owned or operated by Lee County where such placards or signs are located; nor shall any unauthorized person remove any such placard or sign required to be erected by or under the authority of this article. Any violation of this article shall, upon conviction thereof, subject the violator to the penalties established in chapter 1, section 1-12 of the Lee County Code; provided, however, that if the violation is a first offense, then the violator shall be subject to a written warning.
( Ord. of 11-12-2019 )
