ARTICLE VI. - COUNTY LAW LIBRARY[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1998 Ga. Laws, page 4135, which authorizes the magistrate court to collect an additional charge to maintain the county law library. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

Sec. 1. - Charge in magistrate court.
The Magistrate Court of Lee County shall be authorized to charge a sum not to exceed $5.00, in addition to all other legal costs, in each action or case, either civil or criminal, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, all hearings on applications for and the issuance of arrest and search warrants, issuance of warrants, and related proceedings as provided in Article 4 of Chapter 6 of Title 17 of the O.C.G.A., relating to bonds for good behavior and bonds to keep the peace; the holding of courts of inquiry; trials of charges of violations of county ordinances and penal ordinances of state authorities; trials of civil claims, including garnishment and attachment; the issuance of summonses, trials of issues, and issuance of writs and judgments in dispossessory proceedings and distress warrant proceedings as provided in Articles 3 and 4 of Chapter 7 of Title 44 of the O.C.G.A.; punishment of contempt; all other proceedings of a civil or criminal nature; and for such other matters as are committed to their jurisdiction by other general law.
(Act. No. 583, § 1, 6-2-10)
Sec. 2. - Use of funds.
The funds collected by the Magistrate Court of Lee County pursuant to section (1) of this article shall be paid into the general county treasury of Lee County and shall be used for the lawful purposes of maintaining the Lee County Law Library, including the purchase of books, reports, texts, periodicals, supplies, desks, and equipment for the maintenance, upkeep, and operation of the law library, including the services of a librarian. Such funds shall not be comingled with the funds held by the trustees of the Lee County Law Library Fund. Such funds shall be used in conjunction with the funds expended by the board of trustees of the Lee County Law Library Fund based upon consultation between the Lee County Board of Commissioners and the trustees of the Lee County Law Library Fund. In the event that the board of commissioners determines in its sole discretion that it has excess funds on hand from such collections, then such excess funds may be used by the board of commissioners for the purchase of fixtures or furnishings for the courthouse.
(Act. No. 583, § 1, 6-2-10)
