ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 34-1. - Environmental health regulations.
There are currently in existence certain rules and regulations adopted by the Lee County Board of Health with the purpose of preserving the public health, safety, and welfare of citizens of Lee County, Georgia. This section specifically incorporates by reference the provision of the following rules and regulations which are in force at the time of the adoption of this section:
(1)
Rules and regulations pertaining to rabies control (adopted by the department of human resources and the Lee County Board of Health and being chapter 290-5-2 and the "Rabies Control Ordinance" as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Lee County Board of Health pertaining to rabies control;
(2)
Rules and regulations pertaining to food service (adopted by the department of human resources and the Lee County Board of Health and being chapter 290-5-14 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Lee County Board of Health pertaining to food service;
(3)
Rules and regulations pertaining to tourist accommodations (adopted by the department of human resources and the Lee County Board of Health and being chapter 290-5-18 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Lee County Board of Health pertaining to tourist accommodations;
(4)
Rules and regulations for land disposal of domestic septage (adopted by the department of human resources and the Lee County Board of Health and being chapter 290-5-25 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Lee County Board of Health pertaining to land disposal of domestic sewage;
(5)
Rules and regulations for on-site sewage management systems (adopted by the department of human resources and the Lee County Board of Health and being chapter 290-5-26 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Lee County Board of Health pertaining to on-site sewage management systems;
(6)
Rules and regulations pertaining to drinking water supply (adopted by the department of human resources and the Lee County Board of Health and being chapter 290-5-55 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Lee County Board of Health pertaining to drinking water supply;
(7)
Rules and regulations pertaining to public swimming pools, spas, and recreational water parks (adopted by the department of human resources and the Lee County Board of Health and being chapter 290-5-57 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Lee County Board of Health pertaining to public swimming pools, spas, and recreational water parks;
(8)
Rules and regulations pertaining to body art (adopted by the department of human resources and/or the Backer County Board of Health and being rules and regulations for body art studios and artists as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Lee County Board of Health pertaining to body art; and
A copy of all these rules and regulations are on file with the city.
(Ord. of 9-22-2009)
Editor's note— Ord. of Sept. 22, 2009 § I, did not specifically amend the Code; hence, inclusion herein as § 34-1 was at the discretion of the editor. See also the Code Comparative Table.
Cross reference— Animals, ch. 14; Art. XI. Sanitary Sewage Requirements, ch. 38.
Secs. 34-2—34-30. - Reserved.
