Chapter 62 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor saved from repeal, § 1-7(9); any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code saved from repeal, § 1-7(14); any ordinance setting the rate of ad valorem tax saved from repeal, § 1-7(16); administration, ch. 2; finance, § 2-231 et seq.; businesses, ch. 22; occupation taxes and regulatory fees, § 22-31 et seq.
State Law reference— Limitation on taxing power of municipalities and counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ VIII; taxation power of municipal and county governments, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ I.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 62-1. - Judicial in rem tax foreclosure for delinquent real property taxes.
(a)
The county and the county tax commissioner shall be authorized, from and after the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives, to utilize the procedures provided for judicial in rem tax foreclosure as contained in O.C.G.A. § 48-4-75 through O.C.G.A. § 48-4-81, said state statutes being incorporated into this section by specific reference thereto.
(b)
Such procedures may be used for the collection of any and all ad valorem taxes assessed against real property within the county which remain unpaid for a period of 12 months following the date upon which the taxes initially become delinquent.
(c)
Any proceedings filed in accord with this section shall be designed solely to enforce the lien for ad valorem taxes against the property subject to such taxation, and such proceedings shall not constitute an action for personal liability for such taxes against the owner or owners of the subject property.
(d)
For the purposes of proceedings filed in superior court pursuant to this section, the county tax collector shall be defined as the county tax commissioner.
(e)
Prior to any proceeding being filed in the superior court pursuant to this section, the tax commissioner shall cause the county attorney to check the title to the property which is subject to the ad valorem tax levy and report to the tax commissioner the name of the owner or owners of the subject property and any other interested parties as defined by state law. The county attorney shall also provide to the tax commissioner a legal description of the subject property.
(f)
Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the county or the county tax commissioner from proceeding to collect delinquent ad valorem taxes in another manner or pursuant to another county ordinance or state statute as the methods for collection of such ad valorem taxes provided in this section are not exclusive, but are merely cumulative of the methods by which the county or the county tax commissioner may collect such taxes pursuant to state law.
(g)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-4-76(a), the judicial in rem tax foreclosure procedure authorized by this section may also be utilized by all municipalities located within the county regarding the collection of such municipalities' respective taxes. Upon approval of the ordinance from which this section derives, the county clerk shall notify the governing body of each municipality in the county of the approval of said ordinance and the effective date thereof.
(Ord. of 9-28-1998)
Secs. 62-2—62-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FREEPORT EXEMPTION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Freeport exemption, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-48.2.

Sec. 62-31. - Implemented.
(a)
Pursuant to an election held on March 8, 1988, the electors of the county approved the exemption of the following types of tangible personal property:
(1)
Inventory of goods in the process of manufacture or production, which shall include all partly finished goods and raw materials held for direct use or consumption in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing or production business in the state. The exemption provided for in this subsection shall apply only to tangible personal property substantially modified, altered or changed in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing, processing or production operations in this state.
(2)
Inventory of finished goods manufactured or produced within the state in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing or production business when held by the original manufacturer or producer of such finished goods. The exemption provided for in this subsection shall be for a period not exceeding 12 months from the date such property is produced or manufactured.
(3)
Inventory of finished goods which, on January 1, are stored in a warehouse, dock or wharf, whether public or private, and are designated for shipment to a final destination outside the state and inventory of finished goods shipped into the state from outside this state and stored for transshipment to a final destination outside this state.
(b)
The board of commissioners exempts all three types of tangible personal property described in subsection (a) of this section from ad valorem taxation, including all such taxes levied for education purposes and for state purposes, at the rate of 100 percent of the value of the property.
(Ord. of 10-4-1988, § 1)
Secs. 62-32—62-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - JOINT COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL SALES AND USE TAX[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Joint county and municipal sales and use tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-8-80 et seq.

Sec. 62-61. - Levied.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-8-82, a joint county and municipal sales and use tax is levied at the rate of one percent.
Editor's note— Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-8-89, the board of commissioners adopted a resolution on July 28, 1994, for the distribution of local sales and use taxes whereby the county receives 70.94 percent, Leesburg receives 17.50 percent, and Smithville receives 11.56 percent.
Secs. 62-62—62-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - SPECIAL COUNTY ONE PERCENT SALES AND USE TAX[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Special county one percent sales and use tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-8-110 et seq.

Sec. 62-91. - Imposed.
Pursuant to the authority found in O.C.G.A. § 48-8-110 et seq., there is imposed a special county one percent sales and use tax to become effective upon approval by the voters of the county as provided by law and in no event to become effective prior to the expiration of the existing special county one percent sales and use tax.
(Res. of 8-31-1993, § 1; Res. of 12-3-2001, § 1)
Editor's note— Imposition of the special county one percent sales and use tax was approved by county voters in a referendum held March 19, 2002.
Sec. 62-92. - Purposes.
The purposes for which the proceeds of the tax levied by this article are to be used are capital outlay projects and the retirement of previously existing general obligation debt of Lee County, Georgia, including the construction and renovation of public safety facilities (fire stations) or related capital equipment used in the operation of such public safety facilities, the renovation of the Lee County Courthouse, the renovation of the Lee County Elementary School, the renovation of Redbone Fire Station for use as a library, the construction of recreational facilities, a capital outlay project consisting of the establishment of an industrial park, retirement of previously existing general obligation debt issued in connection with certain capital outlay projects of Lee County, including capital outlay projects to construct a new County Jail and to construct a new wastewater treatment plant, the construction of water and sewer treatment facilities in the City of Leesburg and the City of Smithville, the renovation of historic facilities in the City of Smithville, capital outlay projects in connection with the operation of public safety facilities in the City of Smithville, and for road, street, and bridge purposes.
(Res. of 8-31-1993, § 2; Res. of 12-3-2001, § 8)
Sec. 62-93. - Time limitation.
The maximum period of time for which the SPLOST IV shall be imposed shall be five years from the date of its inception, or until the tax is otherwise terminated in accord with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-8-112(b).
(Res. of 8-31-1993, § 3; Res. of 12-3-2001, § 5)
Secs. 62-94—62-125. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - GROSS PREMIUMS TAX ON INSURERS

Sec. 62-126. - Levied.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2, there is levied an annual tax upon each insurer doing insurance business within the unincorporated area of the county, in an amount equal to 2½ percent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year on all insurance, other than life insurance, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(2), (3), (4) and (5). "Gross direct premiums" shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2(a).
Secs. 62-127—62-160. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS BUSINESS LICENSE TAX

Sec. 62-161. - Levied.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, there is levied an annual business license tax upon all depository financial institutions located within the county at a rate of 0.25 percent of the gross receipts of the depository financial institutions. "Gross receipts" shall mean gross receipts as defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93. "Depository financial institutions" shall mean state and national banks, state building and loan associations, and federal savings and loan associations.
Sec. 62-162. - Filing of return.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(c), each depository financial institution subject to the tax levied by this article shall file a return of its gross receipts with the board of commissioners on March 1 of the year following the year in which such gross receipts are measured. The return shall be in the manner and in the form prescribed by the commissioner of the department of revenue based on the allocation method set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(d). The board of commissioners shall assess and collect the tax levied pursuant to this article based upon the information provided in the return.
Sec. 62-163. - Minimum business license tax.
The minimum annual amount of business license tax due from any depository financial institution pursuant to section 62-161 shall be $1,000.00.
Sec. 62-164. - Due date of taxes.
Taxes levied pursuant to this article shall be due no later than 30 days after filing of the return prescribed by section 62-162 unless extended by the commissioner.
Secs. 62-165—62-180. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - BUSINESS DEALINGS OCCUPATION TAX

Sec. 62-181. - Occupation tax required; occupation tax required for business dealings in the county.
For the year 1998 and succeeding years thereafter, each person engaged in any business, trade, profession, or occupation in the unincorporated areas of the county, whether with a location in the unincorporated areas of said county or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for said business, trade, profession, or occupation; which tax and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the county. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the county, such business tax registration shall be shown to the county clerk, the county sheriff, or their respective designees.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 1)
Sec. 62-182. - Construction of terms; definitions.
(a)
Wherever the term "the county" or "Georgia" is used herein, such term shall be construed to mean the unincorporated areas of the county, Georgia.
(b)
As used in this article, the term:
(1)
"Administrative fee" means a component of an occupation tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
(2)
"Dominant line" means the type of business, within a multiple-line business, that the greatest amount of income is derived from.
(3)
"Location of office" shall include any structure or vehicle where business, profession or occupation is conducted, but shall not include a temporary or construction work site which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession or occupation which has a location or office.
(4)
"Occupation tax" means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations, or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession, or business for revenue raising purposes.
(5)
"Person" shall be held to include sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, nonprofit corporations, or any other form of business organization, but specifically excludes charitable nonprofit organizations which utilize 50 percent of their proceeds for charitable purposes.
(6)
"Practitioner of profession or occupation" is one who by state law requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation.
(7)
"Practitioners of professions and occupations" shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
(8)
"Regulatory fees" means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees, or by another name, which are required by the county as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession, or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the county. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee. Development impact fees as defined by paragraph 8 of O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2 or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 2)
Sec. 62-183. - Administrative and regulatory fee structure; occupation tax structure.
(a)
A nonprorated, nonrefundable administrative fee of ten dollars shall be required on all business and occupation tax accounts for the initial start-up, renewal, or re-opening of those accounts.
(b)
A regulatory fee in the amount of $25.00 is hereby imposed as authorized under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9. Such regulatory fee not include an administrative fee. Such regulatory fee shall apply to each business listed as follows:
(1)
Building and construction contractors, and subcontractors;
(2)
Carnivals;
(3)
Taxicab and limousine operators;
(4)
Tattoo artists;
(5)
Stables;
(6)
Shooting galleries and firearm ranges;
(7)
Scrap metal processors;
(8)
Pawnbrokers;
(9)
Food service establishments;
(10)
Dealers in precious metals;
(11)
Firearms dealers;
(12)
Peddlers;
(13)
Parking lots;
(14)
Nursing and personal care homes;
(15)
Modeling agencies;
(16)
Massage parlors;
(17)
Landfills;
(18)
Auto and motorcycle racing;
(19)
Boarding houses;
(20)
Businesses which provide appearance bonds;
(21)
Boxing and wrestling promoters;
(22)
Hotels and motels;
(23)
Hypnotists;
(24)
Handwriting analysts;
(25)
Health clubs, gyms, and spas;
(26)
Fortunetellers;
(27)
Garbage collectors;
(28)
Escort services;
(29)
Burglar and fire alarm installers; and
(30)
Locksmiths.
(c)
The inspection department of the county shall continue to impose permit fees for construction and development in compliance with ordinances and regulations currently in existence for the unincorporated areas of the county. It is the express intent of the board of commissioners of the county that this article shall not affect such existing ordinances in any manner whatsoever.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 3)
Sec. 62-184. - Occupation tax levied; restrictions.
(a)
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the unincorporated areas of the county and upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7 based upon the number of employees of the business or practitioner.
(b)
The tax rate determined by the number of employees for each business, trade, profession, or occupation is as follows:
EXPAND
Employees Tax liability
1—9 $100.00
10—19  200.00
20—29  300.00
30—39  400.00
40—49  500.00
50 or more  600.00
  (c)
No business or practitioner shall be required to pay more than one occupation tax for each of its locations.
(d)
No occupation tax shall be required from those real estate brokers, real estate agents, or real estate companies whose offices are located outside the unincorporated areas of the county and who sell property inside the unincorporated areas of the county.
(e)
Only those employees who work in the unincorporated areas of the county shall be counted for purposes of determination of the amount of applicable occupation taxes hereunder.
(f)
In the case of a business subject to occupation tax for a calendar year, which business was not conducted for any period of time in the unincorporated areas of the county during the preceding year, the owner, proprietor, manager, or executive officer of the business liable for occupation tax shall estimate the number of employees from the commencing date to the end of the calendar year, and such occupation tax shall be paid according to said estimate.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 4)
Sec. 62-185. - Paying occupation tax of business with no location in the state.
Registration and assessment of an occupation tax is hereby imposed on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the state if the business' largest dollar volume of business in the state is in the county, and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the jurisdiction of the unincorporated areas of the county for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the jurisdiction of the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 5)
Sec. 62-186. - Each line of business to be identified on business registration.
The business registration of each business operated in the county shall identify the dominant line of business that the business conducts.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 6)
Sec. 62-187. - Professionals as classified in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c), paragraphs 1 through 18.
Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1) through (18) shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
The occupation tax based on number of employees as set forth in section 62-184 of this article.
(2)
A fee of $400.00 per practitioner whose is licensed to provide the service, such tax to be paid at the practitioner's office or location; provided, however, that a practitioner paying according to this paragraph shall not be required to provide information to the local government relating to the gross receipts of the business of practitioner nor as to the number of employees of the practitioner. The per-practitioner fee applies to each person in the business who qualifies as a practitioner under the state's regulatory guidelines and framework.
(3)
Such election shall be made on or before February 1, 1998. Such election shall be changed for subsequent calendar years only by written request filed by the professional on or before February 1 of the year in which the election is to be changed.
(4)
Examples of businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations which are subject to the section include, but are expressly not limited to, the following:
a.
Lawyers;
b.
Physicians licensed under chapter 34 of title 43;
c.
Osteopaths licensed under chapter 34 of title 43;
d.
Chiropractors;
e.
Podiatrists;
f.
Dentists;
g.
Optomotrists;
h.
Psychologists;
i.
Veterinarians;
j.
Landscape architects;
k.
Land surveyors;
l.
Practitioners of physiotherapy;
m.
Public accountants;
n.
Embalmers;
o.
Funeral directors;
p.
Civil, mechanical, hydraulic, or electrical engineers;
q.
Architects;
r.
Marriage and family therapists;
s.
Social workers and professional counselors;
t.
Dealers of motor vehicles, as defined in paragraph 1 of O.C.G.A. § 10-1-622; and
u.
Any other business, profession or occupation for which state licensure or registration is required by state law, unless the state law regulating such business, profession or occupation specifically allows for regulation by local governments.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 7)
Sec. 62-188. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for a government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, instrumentalities of the United States, the state, or a municipality or county of the state shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 8)
Sec. 62-189. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The occupation tax levied herein is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade, or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5 to 48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinance.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 9)
Sec. 62-190. - Business license issued; violation for failure to pay and obtain license.
(a)
Upon payment of the occupation tax, administrative fee, and regulatory fee, or any such combination thereof as required in this article, the applicant, person, business, trade, profession, or occupation shall receive a business license which shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the county. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the county, such business license shall be shown to any police officer or enforcement officer of said county upon request.
(b)
It shall be a violation of this article for any person to operate or conduct a business, trade, profession, or occupation in the county, whether with a location in the unincorporated areas of the county or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, or to exercise, conduct, or operate any business subject to a regulatory fee, without having first filed a return for payment of the applicable occupation tax, administrative fee, and regulatory fee (or such combination as applicable to said person) paid the applicable occupation tax, regulatory fee, and administrative fee (or such combination thereof as applicable to said person), and obtained and displayed a business license. Where a person is subject to paying an occupation tax, administrative fee, and regulatory fee under this article, said person shall obtain one business license which shall reflect payment of all such charges.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 10)
Sec. 62-191. - When tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such occupation tax, administrative fee, and regulatory fee shall be payable for the calendar year 1998 and succeeding calendar years thereafter unless otherwise specifically provided. Said registration and occupation tax shall be payable on January 1 of each year and shall, if not paid by January 15 of each year, be subject to penalties for delinquencies prescribed in this article. On any new profession, trade, or business begun in the unincorporated area of the county in 1998, or in succeeding years thereafter, the administrative fee, regulatory fee, and occupation tax, as applicable, shall be delinquent if not obtained immediately upon beginning business, and a penalty of $50.00 shall be imposed. The tax registration herein provided shall be issued by the revenue collection officer, and if any person, firm, or corporation whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after said registration, occupation tax, regulatory fee, or administrative fee becomes delinquent, transacts or offers to transact, in the unincorporated areas of the county, any of the kind of profession, trade, or business subject to this article without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall, upon conviction by the magistrate court of the county, be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.00, or imprisonment not to exceed ten days, either or both, in the discretion of the judge of said court.
(b)
In addition to the above remedies, the sheriff of the county may proceed to collect in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 11)
Sec. 62-192. - Exemption on grounds that business is operated for charitable purpose.
No business on which a business registration or occupation tax is levied by this article shall be exempt from said registration or tax on the ground that such business is operated for a charitable purpose unless 75 percent or more of the entire proceeds from said business are devoted to such purpose.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 12)
Sec. 62-193. - Evidence of state registration required if applicable; state registration to be displayed.
(a)
Each person who is licensed by the secretary of state pursuant to O.C.G.A. tit. 43 shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the county registration may be issued.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 13)
Sec. 62-194. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency, or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a county business registration, show evidence that such requirements have been met.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 14)
Sec. 62-195. - Establishment of revenue collection agency; revenue collection agent; subpoena and arrest powers.
Within and as a part of the county business license and inspection department, there is hereby established a "revenue collection agency" which shall have the responsibility for the administration of this article, including, but not limited to, preparing and taking applications, collecting fees, inspection and regulation of applicants, reviewing and approving or denying applications, and the issuing of business registrations under this article. The head of the county business license and inspection department shall also serve as head of the revenue collection agency and shall serve as the revenue collection agent. The revenue collection agent and his duly designated officers and inspectors, or his successors in office, shall be classified as deputy marshals business inspectors with full subpoena and arrest powers in conjunction with any violation pertaining to this article.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 15)
Sec. 62-196. - Businesses not covered by this article.
(a)
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this article but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electric service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. tit. 46, ch. 3.
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8, et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355. (Businesses that purchase carload lots of guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed, or cottonseed meal and hulls.)
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(11)
Any state or local authority or non-profit organization.
(b)
The county shall not be authorized to require the payment of a fee in any amount by a business or practitioner for the cost of ascertaining whether such a business or practitioner has paid occupation tax to another local government.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 16)
Sec. 62-197. - Occupation tax inapplicable where prohibited by law or provided for pursuant to other existing law.
An occupation tax shall not apply to the gross receipts of any part of a business where such levy is prohibited or exempted by the laws of the state or of the United States.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 17)
Sec. 62-198. - Occupation tax limitations.
(a)
The county shall not require the payment of more than one occupation tax for each location of a person.
(1)
If a person with no location or office in the county provides to the county proof of payment of a local business or occupation tax in another state which purports to tax the person's gross receipts in this state, then the person shall be exempt from the occupation tax levied by this article.
(2)
A person who has locations or offices elsewhere in the state who is subject to occupation tax by more than one local government in the state shall be subject to occupation tax by the county, unless the person provides documentation to the county of current payment of an occupation tax, measured by the gross receipts of the person, to the other state local governments.
(b)
If a person commences business in the county on or after July 1 of any year, the county shall be authorized to levy the customary rate on the gross receipts of the business or practitioner from the date of commencement of the business. The administrative fee authorized by this article shall not be reduced for any such business commencing on or after July 1 of any year.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 18)
Sec. 62-199. - Businesses at more than one location.
Wherever a business or occupation is conducted at more than one location or place within the county, each such location shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of the occupation tax imposed by this article.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 19)
Sec. 62-200. - Liability of officers and agents; registration required; failure to obtain.
All persons subject to the occupation tax levy pursuant to this article shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for said business as described in this article, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a registration. Every person commencing business in the county after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration herein provided for before commencing the same.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 20)
Sec. 62-201. - When registration and tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such registration shall be for the calendar year in which the registration was obtained unless otherwise specifically provided. There is hereby imposed a penalty upon each business which fails to apply for and obtain an appropriate business registration and pay all taxes and fees as provided herein before January 15 of each year and on January 15 of each year hereafter. Each person commencing business in the unincorporated areas of the county after January 1 of each year shall obtain the registration required before commencing such business. Any person transacting or offering to transact in any unincorporated areas of the county any business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having obtained said registration shall be subject to the penalties provided in section 62-202 of this article. Said penalties shall be in addition to all other penalties, civil and criminal herein provided; and may be collected by the remedies herein provided for collection of the occupation tax, and shall have the same lien and priority as the occupation tax to which the penalty is applied.
(b)
The registration herein provided for shall be issued by the revenue collection officer, and if any person, firm, or corporation whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after said occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the unincorporated areas of the county, any of the kind of business, trade, profession, or occupation without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall be subject to the penalties provided thereof.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 21)
Sec. 62-202. - Due date; court penalty and interest.
A penalty is imposed on each business and practitioner of an occupation which fails to apply for and obtain appropriate registration and to pay any and all regulatory and administrative fees and occupation taxes required by this chapter. Said penalty shall be in the amount of ten percent of the regulatory and administrative fee and occupation tax determined to be due and owing under the provisions of this article. Such delinquency shall also bear interest at the rate of one and one half percent for each month or partial month of such delinquency. Penalties provided herein shall be in addition to any other penalties, civil or criminal, which may be applicable. Such penalties should become effective when such regulatory and administrative fees and occupation taxes remain due and unpaid for 15 days from the due date of the tax or fee.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 22)
Sec. 62-203. - Criminal penalty for violation of this article.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall, upon conviction before the magistrate court of the county, be fined in an amount not exceeding $500.00 or imprisoned for a period not exceeding ten days, either or both, in the discretion of the judge of the county magistrate court.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 23)
Sec. 62-204. - Inspection of records.
The revenue collection agency of the county, through its officers, agents, employees, or representatives, may inspect the books or records of any business pertaining to employees of the business or person for which the returns are made. The revenue collection agent shall have the right to inspect the books or records for the business for which the return was made in the county, and upon demand of the revenue collection agent, such books or records shall be submitted for inspection by the revenue collection agent, or his designee, within 30 days. Failure to submit such books or records within said 30-day period shall be grounds for revocation of the tax registration currently existing to do business in the county. Adequate records shall be kept in the county, for examination by the revenue collection agent at that officer's discretion. If, after examination of the books and records, it is determined that a deficiency occurs as a result of under-reporting, a penalty of $150.00 shall be assessed for the period delinquent. The right of inspection herein shall be limited to those records which reflect the number of employees of the person, business, trade, occupation, or profession of the business.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 24)
Sec. 62-205. - Confidentiality.
Information provided by a person to the county for the purpose of determining the applicability and the amount of the occupation tax or the levy or collection of occupational tax levied pursuant to this article is confidential and exempt from disclosure. Such information may be provided by the governing authority of another local government for occupation tax purposes or pursuant to court order or for the purpose of collecting occupation tax or prosecution for failure or refusal to pay an occupation tax.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 25)
Sec. 62-206. - Revocation.
Failure of any person to pay an applicable administrative fee, regulatory fee, or occupation tax, or any part thereof, before it becomes delinquent, or upon the failure to permit inspection of books as required, shall result in any business tax certificates or regulatory fee certificates granted by the county under this article permitting such person to do business in the unincorporated areas of the county for the current year being automatically revoked without any further action required of the county. No new occupation tax certificate or regulatory fee certificate shall be granted by the county for the operation of a business for which any part of the occupation tax or fees herein required are unpaid, nor shall such certificates be issued to a person who has failed to submit adequate records for inspection as required by section 204 hereof.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 26)
Sec. 62-207. - Filing of occupation tax returns.
Any persons, their managers, agents, or employees who do business in the unincorporated areas of the county, after the registration for said business has been revoked as provided above, are hereby required to make occupation tax returns in a form to make such returns within the time and manner herein provided, who refuse to amend such returns so as to set forth the truth, or who shall make false returns; and any persons, their managers, agents, or employees who refuse to permit an inspection of books and may charge when the officers, agents, employees, or representatives of the county request such inspection, during normal business hours, for the purpose of determining the accuracy of the returns herein provided for, shall be subject to penalties provided herein. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government as in the case of delinquent occupation tax. These penalties shall consist of either ten percent of the amount due or a fine of $50.00, whichever is less, as determined by the revenue collection agency.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 27)
Sec. 62-208. - Execution; liens.
(a)
The revenue collection agent, or his designee, upon any tax or installment of any tax become a delinquent and remaining unpaid, shall issue an execution for the amount of said tax against the person liable for said tax, including interest at the rate of one and one-half percent per month accruing thereon. The lien shall cover the property in the unincorporated areas of the county of the person, partnership, or corporation liable for said tax, all as provided by ordinances of said county and the laws of the state. The lien for said occupation tax shall become fixed on and date from the time that such tax or installment thereof becomes delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the sheriff of said county upon the property of the defendant located in said jurisdiction, and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of said execution, with interest and costs added thereto. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be as provided by ordinances of said county and the laws of the state, and the defendants at execution shall have the rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality of the tax or otherwise as provided by the applicable laws of the state in regard to tax executions.
(b)
When a nulla bona entry has been entered by the proper authority upon execution issued by the county against any person defaulting on an occupation tax, the person against whom the entry was made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatsoever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If at any time after the entry of the nulla bona has been made, the person against whom the execution pays the tax in full, together with all interest penalties and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges for services and goods due the person as though the person had never defaulted in the payment of the taxes.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 28)
Sec. 62-209. - Public hearings required.
(a)
In any year when revenue from occupation taxes is greater than revenue from occupation taxes for the preceding year for the county, the county shall hold one or more public hearings as a part of the process of determining how to use the additional revenue derived from such occupation taxes. This hearing shall be held pursuant to the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 48-13-28.
(b)
The board of commissioners of the county shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any future ordinance or resolution regarding the occupation tax as required in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-6(c).
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 29)
Sec. 62-210. - Applications of provisions to prior ordinance.
This article does not repeal or affect the enforcement of any part of any ordinance heretofore passed where taxes levied under such prior ordinance have not been paid in full. So much and such parts of ordinances heretofore and hereinafter passed as provided for the issuing and enforcing of execution for any tax or assessment required by such ordinances, or that imposed fines or penalties for the nonpayment of such tax, or for failure to pay regulatory fees provided for in said ordinance or ordinances, or failure to comply with any other provisions hereof, shall continue and remain in force until such tax, regulatory fee, or assessment shall be fully paid.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 30)
Sec. 62-211. - Amendment; repeal of provisions.
This article shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no such amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the board of commissioners of the county to assess and collect any of the taxes or other charges prescribed. Said amendment may increase or lower the amounts and tax rates of any occupation and may change the classification thereof. Payment of any occupation tax provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the levy or collection by the board of commissioners of the county of additional occupation taxes upon the same person, property, or business.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 31)
Sec. 62-212. - Option to establish exemption or reduction in occupation tax.
The board of commissioners of the county may by subsequent ordinance or resolution provide for an exemption or reduction in occupation taxes or a credit against occupation taxes owed to one or more types of businesses or practitioners of occupations or professions as part of a plan for economic development or attracting, encouraging or maintaining selected types of businesses or practitioners of selected occupations or professions. Such exemptions or reductions in occupation taxes shall not be arbitrary or capricious, and the reasons therefor shall be set forth in the minutes of the governing body. Such exemptions, reductions or credits may include, but shall not be limited to, those exemptions, reductions or credits more particularly set out in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-10(f)(2).
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 32)
Sec. 62-213. - Conflicts between specific and general provisions.
Where there is an apparent conflict in this article between specific and general provisions, it is the intention hereof that the specific shall control.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 33)
Sec. 62-214. - No limitation of authority of the county board of commissioners.
Nothing in this article shall be construed to limit the authority of the county board of commissioners to regulate the exercise of business in any unincorporated areas of the county and, where authorized by federal, state, or local law or ordinance, to deny persons seeking a business registration or license, or both; nor shall this article in any way limit the authority of the county board of commissioners to establish ordinances or regulations setting forth conditions for the registration or licensure of businesses, trades, occupations, or professions. Nothing herein is intended, nor shall it be construed, to limit the police powers of the county with respect to business practices as the same may be established by federal, state, or local law, ordinances, or regulations.
(Ord. of 1-8-1998, § 34)
Secs. 62-215—62-230. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. - SCHOOL TAX

Sec. 62-231. - Collection of county school taxes by tax commissioner.
The tax commissioner of the county shall continue to collect unpaid county school taxes and all other county school taxes levied pursuant to article VIII, section VI, paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, including, but not limited to, ad valorem taxes for the purpose of paying bonded indebtedness incurred by or for the benefit of the county school system. Upon collection of such ad valorem taxes, the tax commissioner shall withhold a commission for the collection thereof equal to two and one-half percent of the gross amount of such ad valorem taxes collected. Such commission shall be remitted to the governing authority of the county in full each calendar month.
(Ord. of 5-13-1999(3), § 1)
Sec. 62-232. - Payment of taxes to county board of education.
The tax commissioner shall pay over to the county board of education once each calendar month all ad valorem taxes collected by such tax commissioner for the benefit of the schools, subject only to the requirement that the tax commissioner pay the commission provided for in section 62-231 above to the governing authority of the county each calendar month.
(Ord. of 5-13-1999(3), § 2)
Secs. 62-233—62-299. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IX. - HOTEL-MOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX

Sec. 62-300. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases shall, for the purposes of this article, and except where the context clearly indicated a different meaning, be defined as follows:
County: Lee County and, variously, the unincorporated territory of the county, wherein Lee County is empowered to impose this tax pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.
Tax collector: The Lee County Manager, or his or her designee.
Due date: The twentieth day after the close of the monthly period for which the tax is to be computed.
Folio: Primary documentation produced by a hotel that demonstrates interaction between the operator and the occupant and which, at a minimum, reflects the name and address given by the occupant, the date(s) of occupancy, the amount of rent charged for each date, together with the amounts of applicable excise tax(es), and the method(s) of payment.
Guest room: A room occupied, or intended, arranged, or designed for occupancy, by one or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use.
Hotel: Any structure or any portion of a structure, including any lodging house, rooming house, dormitory, bed and breakfast inn, motel, motor hotel, auto court, tourist cabin, lodge, inn, or apartment community containing guest rooms and which is occupied, or is intended or designed for occupancy, by paying guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor, or otherwise. It does not include any hospital, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, jail, prison, or other buildings in which human beings are housed and detained under legal restraint.
Monthly period: The calendar months of any year.
Occupancy: The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of any guest room or apartment in a hotel or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Occupant: Any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right to use or possess any guest room in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use, or other agreement, or otherwise.
Operator: Any person operating a hotel in the county, including, but not limited to, the owner of proprietor of such premises, lessee, sublessee, lender in possession, licensee, or any other person operating such hotel.
Permanent resident: Any occupant as of a given date who has or shall have occupied or has or shall have the right of occupancy of any guest room in a hotel for more than ten continuous days next preceding such date. No person shall become a "permanent resident" until such person shall have occupied a guest room in a hotel for more than ten continuous days.
Person: Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, cooperative, estate, trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, the plural as well as the singular number; excepting the United States, the State of Georgia, and any instrumentality of either thereof upon which the county is without power to impose the tax.
Rent: The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Tax: The tax on occupants imposed by this article as provided for by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50, et. seq.
(Ord. of 2-7-2005; Ord. of 5-28-2013)
Sec. 62-301. - Tax rate.
There shall be paid for every occupancy of a guest room in a hotel in the county a tax at the rate of seven percent of the amount of rent unless an exemption is provided under section 62-303.
(Ord. of 2-7-2005)
Sec. 62-302. - Collection of tax by operator.
Every operator renting guest rooms in this county shall collect a tax of seven percent on the amount of rent from the occupant unless an exemption is provided under section 62-303. The operator shall provide a receipt to each occupant, which receipt shall reflect both the amount of rent and the amounts of this and other tax(es) applicable. This tax shall be due from the occupant and shall be collected by the operator at the same time that the rent is collected.
(Ord. of 2-7-2005)
Sec. 62-303. - Exemptions.
(a)
No tax shall be collected from a lodger after becoming a permanent resident, or from a person who certifies in writing that he is staying in such accommodations as a result of his residence having been destroyed by fire or other casualty, or from the United States and the State of Georgia, or any instrumentality of either thereof, or from any official or employee of the state, its units of local government or any other instrumentality of the state, when traveling on official business and presenting written substantiation thereof, or from a foreign diplomat exempted by treaty or consular convention, when presenting substantiation issued by the United States Department of State. Lodging provided without charge in money or otherwise is exempted from this tax.
(b)
Notwithstanding the availability of any other means of identifying the person as a state or local government official or employee, whenever a person pays for rooms, lodgings, or accommodations with a state or local government credit or debit card, such rooms, lodgings, or accommodations shall be deemed to have been furnished for use by a Georgia State or local government official or employee traveling on official business for purposes of the exemption provided in subsection (a) of this section.
(Ord. of 2-7-2005)
Sec. 62-304. - Registration of operator; form and contents; execution; certificate of authority.
Every person engaging or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel in this county shall immediately register with the tax collector on a form provided by said official. Persons engaged in such business must so register not later than 30 days after the date that this article becomes effective. Such registration shall set forth the name under which such person transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of his place(s) of business, and other information which would facilitate the administration of the tax as prescribed by the tax collector. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person. In case of ownership by an association or partnership, the registration shall be signed by a member or partner. In case of ownership by a corporation, the registration shall be signed by an officer. The tax collector shall, after such registration, issue without charge a certificate of authority to each operator to collect the tax from the occupant. A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of an operator. Each certificate of authority shall state the name and location of the business to which it is applicable.
(Ord. of 2-7-2005)
Sec. 62-305. - Determination generally; returns; payments.
(a)
Due date of taxes. All amounts of such taxes shall be due and payable to the tax collector monthly on or before the twentieth (20th) day of every month next succeeding each respective monthly period. The tax imposed by this chapter shall become delinquent for each month after the twentieth (20th) day of each succeeding month during which the tax remains unpaid.
(b)
Penalty and interest for failure to pay tax by due date. When a person fails to make any return or to pay the full amount of the tax required by this chapter, there shall be imposed, in addition to other penalties provided by law, a penalty to be added to the tax in the amount of five percent or $5.00, whichever is greater, if the failure is for not more than 30 days, and an additional five percent or $5.00, whichever is greater, for each additional 30 days or fraction of 30 days during which the failure continues. The penalty for any single violation shall not exceed 25 percent or $25.00 in the aggregate, whichever is greater. If the failure is due to providential cause shown to the satisfaction of the tax collector, and if an affidavit form is attached to the return and if remittance is made within ten days of the due date, the return may be accepted exclusive of such penalties and interest. In case of a false or fraudulent return of a failure to file a return where wilful intent exists to defraud the county of any tax due under this chapter, a penalty of 50 percent of the tax due shall be assessed.
(c)
Return; time of filing; persons required to file; contents. On or before the twentieth (20th) day of the month following each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period shall be filed with the tax collector showing the gross rent, taxable rent, exempt rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the period, and such other information as may be required by the tax collector.
(d)
Collection fee allowed operators. Operators collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting, and paying the amount due, if the amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be three percent of the amount due, but only if the amount due was not delinquent at the time of payment.
(e)
Penalties and interest included as revenue. All civil penalties and interest added to any tax imposed under this chapter and collected by the county shall be included as revenue derived from such tax for purposes of expenditure requirements imposed upon the county as provided or required by state law.
(Ord. of 2-7-2005)
Sec. 62-306. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Recomputation of tax; authority to make; basis of recomputation. If the tax collector is not satisfied with the return or returns of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the county by any person, the tax collector may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within the possession of the tax collector or that may come into the possession of the tax collector. One or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one or more monthly periods.
(b)
Penalty and interest for failure to pay tax. The penalty and interest for failure to pay tax based upon a recomputation as authorized pursuant to this Code section shall be the same as that provided in section 62-305 hereof.
(c)
Notice of determination; service of notice. The tax collector shall give to the operator written notice of the tax collector's determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail, such service shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the county. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by the addressee.
(d)
Time within which notice of deficiency determination to be mailed. Except in the case of failure to make a return, every notice of a deficiency determination shall be mailed within three years after the twentieth (20th) day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period should last expire.
(Ord. of 2-7-2005)
Sec. 62-307. - Determination if no return made.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts. If any person fails to make a return and pay the tax as provided in this chapter, or makes a grossly incorrect return, or makes a return that is false or fraudulent, the tax collector shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the person or, as the case may be, of the amount of total rentals in the county which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period or periods in respect to which the person failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the tax collector. Written notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in section 62-306.
(b)
Penalty and interest for failing to pay tax. The penalty and interest for failure to pay tax based upon a recomputation as authorized pursuant to this Code section shall be the same as that provided in section 62-305 hereof.
(Ord. of 2-7-2005)
Sec. 62-308. - Collection of tax by county.
(a)
Action for delinquent tax; time for. At any time within three years after any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected becomes due and payable and at any time within three years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, the tax collector may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the county to collect the amount delinquent, together with penalty, interest, court fees, filing fees, attorney's fees, and other legal fees incident thereto.
(b)
Delinquent taxes to be liens. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and in addition to any and all other remedies that the county may have with respect to the collection of delinquent taxes under this chapter, such taxes shall be a lien upon the real and personal property of the person obligated to pay such tax, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as are other liens for taxes owed to the county.
(c)
Duty of successors or assignees of operator to withhold tax from purchase money. If any operator liable for any amount under this article sells out his business or quits the business, he shall make a final return and payment of taxes owed under this chapter within 15 days after the date of selling or quitting the business. Such seller's successors or assigns, if any, shall withhold a sufficient amount of the purchase money to cover the amount of the taxes, interest, and penalties due under this chapter and unpaid until the seller produces either a receipt from the county showing that the taxes, interest, and penalties due under this chapter have been paid, or a certificate from the county stating that no tax, interest, or penalty is due hereunder. If the purchaser of a business fails to withhold the purchase as required by this section, he shall be personally liable for the payment of any taxes, interest, and penalties accruing under this chapter and unpaid by the former owner. The personal liability of the purchaser in such a case shall not exceed the amount of the total purchase money, but the property being transferred shall in all cases continue to be subject to the full amount of the tax lien arising from the delinquency of the former owner. Paid executions may be transferred and enforced as otherwise provided by law.
(d)
Credit for tax, penalty, or interest paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected. Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty, or interest has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the county, it may be offset by the tax collector. If the operator or person determines that he has overpaid or paid more than once, which fact has not been determined by the tax collector, such person shall have three years from the date of payment to file a claim in writing stating the specific ground upon which the claim is founded. The claim shall be audited. If the claim is approved by the tax collector, the excess amount paid the county may be credited on any amounts then due and payable from the person by whom it was paid.
(Ord. of 2-7-2005)
Sec. 62-309. - Administration of article; record keeping.
(a)
Authority of tax collector. The tax collector shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the collection of the tax.
(b)
Records required from operators; form. Every operator renting a guest room in the county shall preserve, for a minimum of three years, all folios, receipts, certificates of exemption, and such other documents or books of account as the tax collector may prescribe, and in such form as the tax collector may require. Said records shall at all times be available for examination within the county.
(c)
Examination of records; audits. The tax collector or any person authorized by him in writing may examine, at all reasonable hours, the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment, and other facilities of any operator renting guest rooms, and any operator liable for the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid. Any examination by the county of the records of a person for the purposes of this chapter shall be based primarily upon the most recent sales tax audit report on the hotel as may be furnished pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-2-16. Information secured by the county and its employees incident to any such examination shall be confidential and privileged to the same extent as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-2-15.
(d)
Authority to require reports; contents. In administration of the provisions of this article, the tax collector may require the filing of reports by any person or class of persons having in their possession or custody information relating to the rental of guest rooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the tax collector when required by said official and shall set forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the date(s) of occupancy, the basis for exemption, or such other information as the tax collector may prescribe.
(e)
Correctness of assessments. Any assessment of any person pursuant to this chapter by the county shall be deemed prima facie correct pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-53.5.
(Ord. of 2-7-2005)
Sec. 62-310. - Violations.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect, or refuse to collect the tax provided in this chapter, either by himself or herself, or through his or her agents or employees. In addition to the penalty of being liable for or paying the tax himself or herself, any person who violates subsection (a) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100.00 or imprisoned for not more than three months, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person required by this chapter to make, render, sign, or verify any return to make a false or fraudulent return with intent to evade the tax levied by this chapter. If any person violates subsection (b) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100.00 nor more than $300.00 or imprisoned for not less than 30 days nor more than three months, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person subject to this chapter to fail or refuse to furnish any return required to be made by this chapter or to fail or refuse to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the county under this chapter. Any person who violates subsection (c) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person subject to this chapter to fail to fail to keep records or fail to open records to inspection as require by law. Any person who violates subsection (d) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(e)
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any other provision of this chapter for which punishment is not otherwise provided. Any person who violates subsection (e) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. of 2-7-2005)
