Chapter 16 - ENVIRONMENT[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 16-1—16-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - NOISE[2]

Sec. 16-19. - Loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise declared unlawful; exceptions.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise that unreasonably or unnecessarily annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others in the city. The provisions of this section shall not apply to or be enforced against the following:
(1)
Any vehicle of the city while engaged in necessary public business.
(2)
Excavations or repairs of streets by or on behalf of the city, county or state at night when public welfare and convenience renders it impossible to perform such work during the day.
(3)
The reasonable use of amplifiers or loudspeakers in the course of public addresses that are noncommercial in character.
(Code 2003, § 30-31)
Sec. 16-20. - Certain acts constituting violations.
The following acts, among others, shall constitute a violation of this article, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
(1)
Horns or signaling devices.
a.
The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public place in the city except as a danger warning;
b.
The creation of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound by means of any such signaling device and the sounding of any such device for an unreasonable period of time;
c.
The use of any signaling device, except a police whistle or one operated by hand or electricity;
d.
The use of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine exhaust; and
e.
The use of any such signaling device when traffic is held up for any reason.
(2)
Radios, phonographs, other machines or devices that produce or reproduce sound. The playing, using or operating, or permitting to be played, used or operated, of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants, or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the person who is in the room, vehicle or chamber in which such machine or device is operated and who is a voluntary listener thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or device between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(3)
Loudspeakers, amplifiers, or other devices for production or reproduction of sound for advertising. The playing, using or operating, or permitting to be played, used or operated, of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public to any building or structure without a special permit from the city clerk or city council. Announcements over loudspeakers can only be made by the announcer, in person, and without the aid of any mechanical device.
(4)
Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or singing. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity.
(5)
Animals and birds. The keeping of any animal or bird that will disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity by making long, continual or frequent noise.
(6)
Steam whistle. The blowing of any train whistle or steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or danger or upon request of proper city authorities.
(7)
Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat or motor vehicle except through a muffler or other device that will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
(8)
Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such a manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
(9)
Loading, unloading, or opening boxes. The creation of a loud and excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers.
(10)
Construction or repairing of buildings. The erection, including excavation, demolition, alteration or repair of any building, other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except on urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety, and then only with a permit from the county building inspection department, which permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days or less while the emergency continues and which permit may be renewed by the city council for periods of three days or less while the emergency continues. If the city council determines that the public health and safety will not be impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or the excavation of streets and highways from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., and further determines that loss or inconvenience would result to any party in interest, the council may grant permission for such work to be done from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., upon application made at the time the permit for the work is applied for or during the progress of the work.
(11)
Schools, courts, churches, or hospitals. The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or court while they are in session or adjacent to any hospital, and which unreasonably interferes with the work of such institution, or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital, provided that conspicuous signs are displayed about such institutions indicating the presence of such institutions.
(12)
Hawkers, peddlers and vendors. The shouting and crying of hawkers, peddlers and vendors which disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
(13)
Noises to attract attention. The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show, or sale by creation of noise.
(14)
Transportation of metal rails, pillars or columns. The transportation of rails, pillars or columns of iron, steel or other material over and along streets and other public places upon carts, drays, cars, trucks or in any other manner so loaded as to cause loud noises or as to disturb the peace and quiet of such streets or other public places.
(15)
Piledrivers, hammers, and other such appliances. The operation from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. of any piledriver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud or unusual noise without a special permit from the city council.
(16)
Blowers. The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan or any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from such blower or fan is muffled and such engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to deaden such noise.
(17)
Sound trucks. The use of mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or other moving or standing vehicles for advertising or other commercial purposes; the use of sound trucks for noncommercial purposes during such hours or in such places or with such volume as would constitute such use a public nuisance.
(Code 2003, § 30-32)
Secs. 16-21—16-43. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - NUISANCES[3]
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 16-44. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Nuisance means anything within the city that causes hurt, inconvenience or damage to another, and the fact that the act done may otherwise be lawful shall not keep it from being a nuisance. The inconvenience complained of shall not be fanciful or such as would affect only one of fastidious taste, but it shall be such as would affect an ordinary, reasonable person.
(Code 2003, § 30-61; Ord. of 4-5-1982, § 1(9-101))
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1.
Sec. 16-45. - Certain conditions deemed nuisances.
(a)
Nuisances nonexclusive but supplemental. The various nuisances described and enumerated in this section shall not be deemed to be exclusive but shall be in addition to all other nuisances described and prohibited in this article.
(b)
Declaration of nuisances. The following are declared to be nuisances:
(1)
Things interfering with peace or comfort. Sounds, animals or things that interfere with the peace or comfort or disturb the quiet of the community.
(2)
Obnoxious and offensive odors. The emission of obnoxious and offensive odors; the tainting of the air rendering it offensive or unwholesome so as to affect the health or comfort of reasonable persons residing in the neighborhood thereof.
(3)
Discharging of offensive matter. The placing, throwing or discharging from any house or premises, and flow from or out of any house or premises, of any filthy, foul or offensive matter or liquid of any kind, into any street, alley or public place, or upon any adjacent lot or ground.
(4)
Water pollution. The obstruction or pollution of any watercourse or source of water supply in the city.
(5)
Emission of dense smoke. The emission of dense smoke from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner or other agency in the city so as to cause disturbance or discomfort to the public. For the purpose of testing and grading the density of smoke, the Ringelmann Smoke Chart, as published and used by the United States Geological Survey, shall be the standard for such grading, and smoke shall be defined and declared to be dense when it is of a degree of density of number three on the chart, or greater, for more than six minutes in any one hour, whether such period of time is consecutive or not.
(6)
Vacant lots. Any vacant lot whereon debris is permitted to accumulate and remain in such a manner as to create a fire hazard or other hazard to the public health, safety and welfare.
(7)
Nonconforming structures and machines. Any building, business, thing, machine or machinery, erected, repaired, conducted, maintained, operated or used contrary to or in violation of any of the fire and safety regulations of this Code, state law or city ordinance.
(8)
Animal enclosures. Any enclosure in which any animals are kept, dog kennels or runs and other animal or fowl pens wherein manure, dung, filth or litter is allowed to accumulate.
(9)
Dead animals. The carcass of any dead animal of any kind on any premises within the city.
(10)
Depositing trash, garbage, and refuse, on private or public property. The depositing and leaving on private or public property of trash, garbage, refuse, scrap building materials, paper, cardboard containers, brick, cement rubbish, tree residue, cans, containers, or any other rubbish or trash that is a menace to public health and safety in the city or which unreasonably annoys others.
(11)
Unoccupied buildings. Unoccupied buildings that are not properly whitewashed or cleansed.
(12)
Unsafe vehicles, machinery, and other personal property. Unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped, junked, and other automobiles not in good and safe operating condition, and of any other vehicles, machinery, implements, and/or equipment and personal property of any kind that is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured for a period of 30 days or more (except in licensed junkyards). The absence of a license plate for the current year and/or the absence of a current motor vehicle registration shall be prima facie evidence that such vehicle is junked.
(13)
Gutters or spouts. Any gutter or spout that conveys filth into any street, lane or alley of the city.
(Code 2003, § 30-62; Ord. of 4-5-1982, § 1(9-103))
Sec. 16-46. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit the existence of any nuisance on any property within the city, and any such existing nuisance may be abated as provided in this article.
(Code 2003, § 30-63; Ord. of 4-5-1982, § 1(9-102))
Sec. 16-47. - Issuance of summons for abatement.
Whenever any nuisance exists within the city, or whenever any condition shall exist on any property within the city that is required or subject to be demolished, removed or abated under any of the ordinances of the city, and the owner or other person responsible therefor refuses or fails after reasonable notice to demolish, remove or abate such nuisance or condition, the police chief, or the officer having responsibility for the enforcement of such notice to abate, may issue a summons and cause such summons to be served upon such owner or other person responsible for such condition, describing the condition complained of and specifying the ordinances or parts thereof claimed to be violated thereby, and requiring such person to appear before the municipal judge at a time, date and place specified therein, to show cause why such condition should not be demolished, removed or abated.
(Code 2003, § 30-64; Ord. of 4-5-1982, § 1(9-104))
Sec. 16-48. - Order for abatement.
(a)
If the municipal judge at the hearing required by section 16-47 shall determine that a condition does exist as alleged that constitutes a nuisance or a condition which under this article or the ordinances of the city is required or subject to be demolished, removed or abated, the judge shall issue his order and judgment so finding and shall order the property owner or other person responsible therefor to demolish, remove or abate the condition within a period of time to be fixed by the judge. The order shall provide how the condition is to be abated, including, but not limited to, rehabilitation or demolition of any buildings or structures located on the property in question. The order shall further provide that if the property owner or other person responsible therefor shall fail to comply with the order within the time specified, the city shall be authorized to proceed without further notice to demolish, remove or abate such condition and to take whatever action is deemed necessary to demolish, remove or abate such condition, and the expense thereof shall be charged against the owner of the property in question and shall be a lien against the property upon which the condition existed, ranking equally with the lien for city taxes.
(b)
Execution shall issue for such costs as in the case of city taxes, and the procedure for the enforcement of the execution shall thereafter be the same as in the case of city taxes.
(Code 2003, § 30-65; Ord. of 4-5-1982, § 1(9-106), (9-108))
State Law reference— Authorization and procedure for abatement of nuisances in cities, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
Sec. 16-49. - Nuisances constituting imminent danger.
Whenever any condition shall exist which constitutes an immediate and grave hazard to public health and safety requiring immediate action, the condition may be abated or otherwise remedied summarily and without following the procedures set forth in sections 16-47 and 16-48.
(Code 2003, § 30-67; Ord. of 4-5-1982, § 1(9-105, 9-110))
Sec. 16-50. - Service on nonresidents and others.
Whenever it shall be necessary for the city to proceed under sections 16-47 and 16-48 and the owner of the property or other person responsible therefor resides outside the city limits, or cannot be found after diligent search, service of the notice required by section 16-48 shall be made by posting a copy of the notice on the property involved, and by publishing the notice in a newspaper having general circulation in the city once a week for four consecutive weeks, the last notice to be not longer than ten days nor less than one day prior to the hearing. Where the address of the person to be served is known, or where there is a last known address, a copy of the notice shall also be mailed to the person at such address by certified mail. In all cases where personal service cannot be made upon such person within the city limits, the case shall proceed as quasi in rem, and the execution shall issue in rem.
(Code 2003, § 30-68; Ord. of 4-5-1982, § 1(9-111))
Sec. 16-51. - Other powers preserved.
Nothing in this article shall in any way affect the power and authority of the municipal judge to punish for any violations which the conditions may constitute, nor shall it affect the power and authority of the judge to punish by contempt the failure to comply with his order.
(Code 2003, § 30-69; Ord. of 4-5-1982, § 1(9-109))
Secs. 16-52—16-75. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES[4]

Sec. 16-76. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Code enforcement officer means the code enforcement officer of the city and/or the chief of police or his duly authorized representative.
Day or days means each and every day except that the first day shall not be counted but the last shall be counted; and if the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the party shall have the privilege or duty of acting to exercise its privilege or discharge its duty on the next business after such Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.
Inoperative means not capable of being moved under its own power without additional work or repairs being completed to the motor vehicle, or without any additional components being added to or placed upon said motor vehicle.
Junked motor vehicle means any motor vehicle which does not have lawfully affixed thereto both an unexpired license plate and a current license decal, or the condition of such motor vehicle is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled.
Motor vehicle means any vehicle which is or is intended to be self-propelled and designed to travel on the ground and shall include, but shall not be limited to, automobiles, buses, motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf carts, campers and trailers, as well as any part thereof.
Private property means any real property within the city which is privately owned and which is not public property as defined in this section.
Public property means any street or highway which shall include the entire width between the boundary lines of every publicly maintained way and dedicated to the purposes of vehicular traffic, and shall also mean any other publicly owned property or facility.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-65))
Sec. 16-77. - Declared nuisance.
No person shall park, store, leave or permit the parking, storing or leaving of any junked motor vehicle of any kind upon any private property within any residential or commercial zoning district or within 500 feet of those zoning districts of the incorporated areas of the city for a period of time in excess of 30 calendar days. The presence of a junked motor vehicle, or parts thereof on private property is hereby declared a public nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions of this division.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-66))
Sec. 16-78. - Exemptions.
Those vehicles which are exempted from the provisions of this division are as follows:
(1)
Any motor vehicles or parts thereof which are located on the premises of licensed automobile dealers;
(2)
Any motor vehicles or parts thereof which are located on the premises of any licensed junkyard operated in compliance with state and local laws relating to licensing, regulating and zoning of such junkyards;
(3)
Any motor vehicle enclosed within a building on private property which is not a hazard to public health and which is not an attractive nuisance to children;
(4)
Any motor vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or designed for operation on drag strips or raceways;
(5)
Any motor vehicles in the process of being restored to an operable condition, provided they:
a.
Are limited to no more than one in number;
b.
Are located in the rear yard and behind the house of the owner of such vehicles;
c.
Are not visible from any road;
d.
Maintain a current tag decal; and
e.
Are enclosed or covered in such a way so as not to be an attractive nuisance to children.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-67))
Sec. 16-79. - Notice of violation.
Whenever it comes to the attention of the code enforcement officer that any nuisance exists in the city, a notice in writing shall be served upon the occupant of the real property where the nuisance exists, upon the owner of the property, and upon the owner of the junked motor vehicle or other property which constitutes such nuisance, notifying them of the existence of the nuisance and directing its removal within 30 days. In the event that such owners cannot be located, or in the event that the address of such owners is unknown, then notice shall be made to the last known address of such owners, or in the event that the identity of such owners cannot be ascertained after due investigation, such notice shall be posted in a prominent location on the premises where the nuisance exists, and upon the junked motor vehicle itself.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-68))
Sec. 16-80. - Responsibility for removal.
Upon such notice, the owner of the junked motor vehicle, and the owner or occupant of the private property upon which the same is located, either, or all of them, shall be responsible for its removal. In the event that such owners fail to remove such vehicle and thereby abate such nuisance within the 30-day time period provided in the notice, the code enforcement officer shall be authorized to institute proceedings against such owner in the municipal court pursuant to the ordinances and rules of said court, and such person shall be notified of the date and time of the hearing scheduled no later than five days prior to the date set for the hearing. Such notice shall be served upon such owner in the same manner as provided for service of notice of ordinance violations in this Code.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-49))
Sec. 16-81. - Hearing.
(a)
At the hearing, the court shall determine the owner of the vehicle and whether or not a nuisance exists and, if so, the court shall order abatement of such nuisance and shall impose such penalties as may be authorized by this division for failure to abate such nuisance.
(b)
In the event that the court determines that a nuisance exists and abatement thereof is ordered, the court shall be authorized to grant the owner a period of time, not to exceed 15 days, to abate such nuisance. The court shall further include in its order provisions authorizing the city to abate such nuisance if such nuisance is not abated by the owner within the time period for such abatement as ordered by the court. Such order shall also include authority for the city to enter upon the premises upon which the nuisance exists and abate the same, and shall further provide that the cost of abatement of the nuisance incurred by the city shall be assessed against the owner of the premises upon which the nuisance existed.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-70))
Sec. 16-82. - Abatement by the city.
In the event that the nuisance is abated by the city pursuant to the authority of the order of the court authorized by this division, the city shall abate the nuisance in the following manner:
(1)
The city shall hire a wrecker service, or such other service as may be required, to remove the nuisance, and direct that the nuisance be removed to a local licensed junkyard or other similar facility.
(2)
The wrecker service hired to remove the nuisance shall notify the owner of the property and the owner of the motor vehicle, within ten days of removal of the property, of the location of the junked motor vehicle and of the cost incurred by the owner in connection with the abatement service. Such cost may include the actual cost of removal of the motor vehicle and storage charges, if applicable, up to and including the date of payment by the owner.
(3)
In the event that the owner does not pay the charges or otherwise recover the motor vehicle within such time as maybe established by the wrecker service or by state law, the wrecker service may be authorized to recover its costs and expenses and dispose of the property in accord with general provisions of state law.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-71))
Sec. 16-83. - Penalty for failure to abate.
Each day which the court finds the nuisance has existed shall constitute a separate offense, and each such offense shall subject the violator, upon conviction therefor, to the punishment set forth under section 1-13.
(Res. of 11-4-2008, § 1(14-72))
Secs. 16-84—16-109. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - VEGETATION

Sec. 16-110. - Planting and removal of trees and shrubs.
It shall be unlawful for any person to plant, remove, injure or cut any tree, bush or shrub in or from any public street, parkway or other public place without first obtaining the approval for such action from the city manager.
(Code 1980, § 17-101(11)(a); Code 2003, § 62-1)
Sec. 16-111. - Advertisements.
It shall be unlawful for any person to attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree or shrub in any public place.
(Code 1980, § 17-101(11)(b); Code 2003, § 62-2)
Sec. 16-112. - Dangerous trees.
Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public place in the city in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or travel shall be trimmed by the owner of the premises on which such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease. Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which such tree grows or stands. The city manager may cause to be trimmed or removed any and all such trees or shrubs so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or passage shall be removed.
(Code 1980, § 17-101(11)(c); Code 2003, § 62-3)
Sec. 16-113. - Poles and wires.
Any person or company which maintains poles and wires in the streets, alleys, or other public places of the city shall keep such wires and poles free and away from any nearby trees or shrubs in such places, and keep all such trees or shrubs properly trimmed, so that no injury shall befall either the poles and wires or the shrubs and trees by their contact.
Sec. 16-114. - Certain weeds, grasses and plants declared a nuisance; exemptions.
(a)
Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or other weeds of a like kind found growing in any lot or tract of land in the city, and any weeds, grasses or plants other than trees, brushes, flowers or other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 12 inches anywhere in the city are declared to be a nuisance, subject to abatement as provided in this division.
(b)
Garden flowers, vegetables, cultivated agricultural crops, ornamental shrubbery and trees shall not be considered weeds, grass or vegetation within the meaning of this section.
(c)
The provisions of this division shall apply only to property located within subdivisions of record in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county, and to the original city lots. They shall not apply to undeveloped areas of unsubdivided land within the city.
(Code 2003, § 30-91)
Sec. 16-115. - Notice to abate.
(a)
For a violation of this division, the owner of the property shall be given notice to remove such excess growth within seven days from the receipt of the notice. Such notice may be served personally, or may be served by registered or certified mail, or by attaching a copy of the notice to the principal entrance of the dwelling, and shall contain a description of the location of the property upon which such condition exists.
(b)
Where notice is given by registered or certified mail, the depositing of such notice in the United States mail by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner of the property at the address shown on the latest ad valorem tax return of such owner for such property, shall constitute sufficient service of such notice, where the return receipt shall be duly returned signed by the addressee or someone residing on the premises, or where the return receipt or other notification from the federal postal service indicates that the notice was refused, or that there was a refusal to sign the return receipt or that delivery of the notice at such address could not be made.
(Code 2003, § 30-93)
Sec. 16-116. - Abatement by city; notice of abatement.
(a)
Upon the failure to comply within the required time by the owner of the property when properly notified pursuant to the provisions of section 16-115, the city is authorized to have the contractor enter upon the property, and the contractor is authorized to enter such property, and cut and remove the weeds, grass and vegetation. The city shall issue a lot cleaning order to the contractor, who shall promptly perform the work and submit his bill to the city. The city shall inspect the work and, if satisfactory, shall approve the bill for payment and forward it to the finance director/tax collector for payment.
(b)
The finance director/tax collector shall promptly send to the owner of the property a statement of account demanding payment thereof on or before a date named in such demand, which shall not be earlier than 15 days nor later than 45 days after payment to the contractor.
(c)
If payment under subsection (b) of this section shall not have been made on or before the date named, the finance director/tax collector shall issue a notice directed to the owner of the property and signed by the municipal judge, notifying such owner to show cause before the judge at a time and place and on a date named therein why execution should not issue against the property for its approval amount.
(d)
If it shall appear at such hearing that the property was in violation of this division, that the notice required of section 16-115 was given, that the work was performed and the cost thereof paid by the city, and that the city has not been reimbursed, execution shall issue for such amount, signed by and executed by the police chief in the same manner as tax executions are executed.
(e)
If the owner of the property is unknown, or cannot be located, the provisions of subsections (b) and (c) of this section shall not apply, but in lieu thereof a notice shall be published once a week for four weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, which notice shall be addressed "To Whom It May Concern," shall describe with reasonable particularity the property involved, a statement of the amount due for the removal of the weeds, grass or other vegetation, and shall notify all persons interested to show cause before the municipal judge at a time and place and on a date named in the notice why execution should not issue in rem against the property for such amount. In such event, subsection (a) of this section will apply, but the execution shall issue against the property in rem.
(Code 2003, § 30-94)
Sec. 16-117. - Remedies.
The remedies provided in this division are cumulative of all other remedies the city has for the accomplishment of the objectives set forth in this division. Nothing in this division shall be construed as relieving any person from the obligation to comply with this Code, all ordinances, laws or regulations of the city, or to permit the maintenance by any person of a nuisance, and any nuisance shall be subject to be abated in the manner provided by law.
(Code 2003, § 30-95)
Sec. 16-118. - Award of contracts for clearing of lots by city.
Prior to the commencement of each fiscal year, the city shall obtain bids from contractors or other qualified persons for clearing lots of weeds, grass and other vegetation not in excess of two inches in diameter, and for clearing lots of weeds, grass and other vegetation in excess of two inches but not in excess of four inches in diameter, and the city manager shall award a contract to the lowest and best bidder, such contract to remain in effect during the ensuing fiscal year.
(Code 2003, § 30-96)
Secs. 16-119—16-149. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - MOSQUITO CONTROL

Sec. 16-150. - Nuisance declared.
A violation of any provision of this division is a nuisance.
(Code 2003, § 30-121)
Sec. 16-151. - Keeping water in which mosquitoes may breed.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to have, keep, maintain, cause or permit within the city any collection of standing or flowing water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed, unless such collection of water is so treated as to effectually prevent such breeding.
(b)
The collections of water prohibited by subsection (a) of this section shall be those contained in ditches, pools, ponds, excavations, holes, depressions, open cesspools, privy vaults, fountains, cisterns, tanks, shallow wells, barrels, troughs (except horse troughs in frequent use), urns, cans, boxes, bottles, tubs, buckets, defective house roof gutters, tanks of flush closets, or other similar water containers.
(Code 2003, § 30-122)
Sec. 16-152. - Treatment of collections of water.
The method of treatment of any collections of water, as specified in section 16-151, directed toward the prevention of breeding of mosquitoes, shall be approved by the county health officer and may be one or more of the following:
(1)
Screening with wire netting of at least 16 meshes to the inch each way, or with any other material that will effectually prevent the ingress or egress of mosquitoes.
(2)
Complete emptying every seven days of unscreened containers together with their thorough drying and cleaning.
(3)
Using a larvicide approved and applied under the direction of the county health officer.
(4)
Covering completely the surface of the water with kerosene, petroleum or paraffin oil once every seven days.
(5)
Cleaning and keeping sufficiently free of vegetable growth and other obstructions, and stocking with mosquito-destroying fish.
(6)
Filling and draining to the satisfaction of the county health officer, his agent or accredited representative.
(7)
Proper disposal by removal or destruction of tin cans, tin boxes, broken or empty bottles and similar articles likely to hold water.
(Code 2003, § 30-123)
Sec. 16-153. - Mosquito larvae as evidence of breeding.
The natural presence of mosquito larvae in standing or running water shall be evidence that mosquitoes are breeding there, and failure to prevent such breeding within three days after notice by the county health officer, his authorized agent or representative shall be deemed a violation of this division.
(Code 2003, § 30-124)
Sec. 16-154. - Failure to remedy conditions after notice.
Should the person responsible for conditions giving rise to the breeding of mosquitoes fail or refuse to take necessary measures to prevent such breeding, within three days after due notice has been given to him, the county health officer or his authorized agent is authorized to do so, and all necessary costs incurred by him for this purpose shall be a charge against the property owner or other person offending, as the case may be.
(Code 2003, § 30-125)
Sec. 16-155. - Right of entry of health officer.
For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this division, the county health officer, or his duly accredited agent under his authority, may at all reasonable times lawfully enter upon any land within the city.
(Code 2003, § 30-126)
Secs. 16-156—16-178. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES[5]

Sec. 16-179. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned motor vehicle means a motor vehicle or trailer:
(1)
Which has been left by the owner or some person acting for the owner with an automobile dealer, repairman, or wrecker service for repair or for some other reason and has not been called for by such owner or other person within a period of 30 days after the time agreed upon; or within 30 days after such vehicle is turned over to such dealer, repairman, or wrecker service when no time is agreed upon; or within 30 days after the completion of necessary repairs;
(2)
Which is left unattended on a public street, road, or highway or other public property for a period of at least five days and when it reasonably appears to a law enforcement officer that the individual who left such motor vehicle unattended does not intend to return and remove such motor vehicle;
(3)
Which has been lawfully towed onto the property of another at the request of a law enforcement officer and left there for a period of not less than 30 days without anyone's having made claim thereto;
(4)
Which has been lawfully towed onto the property of another at the request of a property owner on whose property the vehicle was abandoned and left there for a period of not less than 30 days without the owner's having made claim thereto; or
(5)
Which has been left unattended on private property for a period of not less than 30 days without anyone's having made claim thereto.
Motor vehicle and vehicle mean motor vehicle or trailer.
Owner means the owner, lessor, lessee, security interest holders, and all lienholders as shown on the records of the state department of revenue.
(Code 2003, § 30-151)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1.
Sec. 16-180. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person either as owner, occupant, lessee, agent, tenant, or otherwise to store or deposit, or cause or permit to be stored or deposited, any abandoned motor vehicle upon any public or private property within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 2003, § 30-152)
Sec. 16-181. - Removal—Required.
Any abandoned or discarded motor vehicle shall be removed upon ten days' written notice to the owner or occupant of any premises upon which the motor vehicle is stored or deposited, or to the owner thereof if the identity of such owner of the motor vehicle can be ascertained through license plates or otherwise. If such motor vehicle is not removed after ten days' written notice, the police department shall remove such motor vehicle or cause the removal and sale at the cost of the owner or occupant of the premises, or the owner of such motor vehicle, if such owner can be ascertained. Sale shall be made to the highest of two bids obtained from dealers in such property.
(Code 2003, § 30-153)
Sec. 16-182. - Same—Notice to owner and state.
(a)
Any person who removes a motor vehicle from public or private property at the request of someone other than the owner or who stores any motor vehicle which has been left unattended shall seek the identity of the owner of such vehicle and shall, within 15 days of the day such vehicle became an abandoned motor vehicle, give notice in writing to the state department of revenue and the state bureau of investigation, stating the manufacturer's vehicle identification number, the license number, the fact that such vehicle is an abandoned motor vehicle, and the present location of such vehicle, and requesting the name and address of all owners, lessors, lessees, security interest holders, and lienholders of such vehicle. If a person removing or storing the vehicle has knowledge of facts which reasonably indicate that the vehicle is registered or titled in a certain other state, he shall check the motor vehicle records of that other state in an attempt to ascertain the identity of the owner of the vehicle.
(b)
Upon ascertaining the owner of such motor vehicle, the person removing or storing such vehicle shall, within three days, by certified or registered mail, notify the owner, lessors, lessees, security interest holders, and lienholders of the location of such vehicle and of the fact that such vehicle is deemed abandoned and shall be disposed of if not redeemed.
(c)
If the identity of the owner of such motor vehicle cannot be ascertained, the person removing or storing such vehicle shall place an advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation in the county where such vehicle was obtained or, if there is no newspaper in the county, shall post such advertisement at the county courthouse in such place where other public notices are posted. Such advertisement shall run in the newspaper once a week for two consecutive weeks or shall remain posted at the courthouse for two consecutive weeks. The advertisement shall contain a complete description of the motor vehicle, its license and manufacturer's vehicle identification numbers, the location where such vehicle was initially left unattended by the owner, the present location of such vehicle, and the fact that such vehicle is deemed abandoned and shall be disposed of if not redeemed.
(Code 2003, § 30-154)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-2.
Secs. 16-183—16-202. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - SOIL EROSION, SEDIMENTATION AND POLLUTION CONTROL[6]

Sec. 16-203. - Title.
This article will be known as the "Lee County Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control Ordinance."
(Ord. of 10-4-2016, § I)
Sec. 16-204. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Best management practices (BMPs) includes sound conservation and engineering practices to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia, published by the commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land disturbing activity was permitted.
Board means the board of natural resources.
Buffer means the area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of state waters in its natural state of vegetation, which facilitates the protection of water quality and aquatic habitat.
Certified personnel means a person who has successfully completed the appropriate certification course approved by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
Coastal marshlands shall have the same meaning as in O.C.G.A. § 12-5-282.
Commission means the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission (GSWCC).
CPESC means certified professional in erosion and sediment control with current certification by EnviroCert, Inc., which is also referred to as CPESC or CPESC, Inc.
Cut means a portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to the excavated surface. Also known as excavation.
Department means the state department of natural resources (DNR).
Design professional means:
(1)
A professional licensed by the state in the field of engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, forestry, geology, or land surveying; or
(2)
A person that is a certified professional in erosion and sediment control (CPESC) with a current certification by EnviroCert, Inc.
Design professionals shall practice in a manner that complies with applicable state law governing professional licensure.
Director means the director of the environmental protection division or an authorized representative.
District means the Lower Chattahoochee Soil and Water Conservation District.
Division means the environmental protection division (EPD) of the department of natural resources.
Drainage structure means a device composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for stormwater management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
Erosion means the process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
Erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan means a plan required by the Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq., that includes, as a minimum, protections at least as stringent as the state general permit, best management practices, and requirements in section 16-206(c).
Fill means a portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground surface or an excavation.
Final stabilization means all soil disturbing activities at the site have been completed, and that for unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures and areas located outside the waste disposal limits of a landfill cell that has been certified by EPD for waste disposal, 100 percent of the soil surface is uniformly covered in permanent vegetation with a density of 70 percent or greater, or landscaped according to the plan (uniformly covered with landscaping materials in planned landscape areas), or equivalent permanent stabilization measures as defined in the manual, excluding a crop of annual vegetation and seeding of target crop perennials appropriate for the region. Final stabilization applies to each phase of construction.
Finished grade means the final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Grading means altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Ground elevation means the original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Land disturbing activity means any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land but not including agricultural practices as described in section 16-205(5).
Larger common plan of development or sale means a contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct construction activities are occurring under one plan of development or sale. For the purposes of this definition, the term "plan" means an announcement; piece of documentation such as a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request, or computer design; or physical demarcation such as boundary signs, lot stakes, or surveyor markings, indicating that construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
Local issuing authority means the governing authority of any county or municipality which is certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a).
Metropolitan River Protection Act (MRPA) means a state law referenced as O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq., which addresses environmental and developmental matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
Natural ground surface means the ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation or filling.
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTU) means numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed or suspended particles are present.
NOI means a notice of intent form provided by EPD for coverage under the state general permit.
NOT means a notice of termination form provided by EPD to terminate coverage under the State General Permit.
Operator means the party that has operational control of construction project plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications; or day-to-day operational control of those activities that are necessary to ensure compliance with an erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan for the site or other permit conditions, such as a person authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out activities required by the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan or to comply with other permit conditions.
Outfall means the location where stormwater in a discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, leaves a facility or site or, if there is a receiving water on site, becomes a point source discharging into that receiving water.
Permit means the authorization necessary to conduct a land-disturbing activity under the provisions of this article.
Person means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of the state, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Phase or phased means sub-parts or segments of construction projects where the sub-part or segment is constructed and stabilized prior to completing construction activities on the entire construction site.
Project means the entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
Properly designed means designed in accordance with the design requirements and specifications contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia ("manual"), published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land disturbing activity was permitted and amendments to the manual as approved by the commission up until the date of NOI submittal.
Roadway drainage structure means a device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled roadway consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Sediment means solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by wind, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sedimentation means the process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
Soil and water conservation district approved plan means an erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan approved in writing by the Lower Chattahoochee Soil and Water Conservation District.
Stabilization means the process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
State general permit means the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) general permit or permits for stormwater runoff from construction activities as is now in effect or as may be amended or reissued in the future pursuant to the state's authority to implement the same through federal delegation under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq., and O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f).
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface water or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
Structural erosion, sedimentation and pollution control practices means practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures and sediment traps, etc. Such practices can be found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Trout streams means all streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the wildlife resources division of the state department of natural resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq., in the rules and regulations for Water Quality Control, Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. ch. 391-3-6 at www.epd.georgia.gov. Streams designated as primary trout waters are defined as water supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout. Streams designated as secondary trout waters are those in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction, but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year. First order trout waters are streams into which no other streams flow except springs.
Vegetative erosion and sedimentation control measures means measures for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by covering the soil with:
(1)
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover;
(2)
Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or
(3)
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
Such measures can be found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Watercourse means any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Wetlands means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
(Ord. of 10-4-2016, § II)
Sec. 16-205. - Exemptions.
This article shall apply to any land disturbing activity undertaken by any person on any land except for the following
(1)
Surface mining, as the same is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-4-72, The Georgia Surface Mining Act of 1968;
(2)
Granite quarrying and land clearing for such quarrying;
(3)
Such minor land disturbing activities as home gardens and individual home landscaping, repairs, maintenance work, fences, and other related activities which result in minor soil erosion;
(4)
The construction of single-family residences, when such construction disturbs less than one acre and is not a part of a larger common plan of development or sale with a planned disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre and not otherwise exempted under this subsection; provided, however, that construction of any such residence shall conform to the minimum requirements as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 and this subsection. For single-family residence construction covered by the provisions of this subsection, there shall be a buffer zone between the residence and any state waters classified as trout streams pursuant to the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq. In any such buffer zone, no land disturbing activity shall be constructed between the residence and the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action from the banks of the trout waters. For primary trout waters, the buffer zone shall be at least 50 horizontal feet, and no variance to a smaller buffer shall be granted. For secondary trout waters, the buffer zone shall be at least 50 horizontal feet, but the director may grant variances to no less than 25 feet. Regardless of whether a trout stream is primary or secondary, for first order trout waters, which are streams into which no other streams flow except for springs, the buffer shall be at least 25 horizontal feet, and no variance to a smaller buffer shall be granted. The minimum requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6(b) and the buffer zones provided by this subsection shall be enforced by the local issuing authority;
(5)
Agricultural operations as defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3, "Definitions," to include raising, harvesting or storing of products of the field or orchard; feeding, breeding or managing livestock or poultry; producing or storing feed for use in the production of livestock, including but not limited to cattle, calves, swine, hogs, goats, sheep, and rabbits or for use in the production of poultry, including but not limited to chickens, hens and turkeys; producing plants, trees, fowl, or animals; the production of aquaculture, horticultural, dairy, livestock, poultry, eggs and apiarian products; farm buildings and farm ponds;
(6)
Forestry land management practices, including harvesting; provided, however, that when such exempt forestry practices cause or result in land-disturbing or other activities otherwise prohibited in a buffer, as established in section 16-206(c)(15) and (16), no other land disturbing activities, except for normal forest management practices, shall be allowed on the entire property upon which the forestry practices were conducted for a period of three years after completion of such forestry practices;
(7)
Any project carried out under the technical supervision of the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) of the United States Department of Agriculture;
(8)
Any project involving less than one acre of disturbed area; provided, however, that this exemption shall not apply to any land disturbing activity within a larger common plan of development or sale with a planned disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre or within 200 feet of the bank of any state waters, and for purposes of this subsection, the term "state waters" excludes channels and drainageways which have water in them only during and immediately after rainfall events and intermittent streams which do not have water in them year-round; provided, however, that any person responsible for a project which involves less than one acre, which involves land disturbing activity, and which is within 200 feet of any such excluded channel or drainageway, must prevent sediment from moving beyond the boundaries of the property on which such project is located and provided, further, that nothing contained herein shall prevent the local issuing authority from regulating any such project which is not specifically exempted by subsection (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (9) or (10) of this section;
(9)
Construction or maintenance projects, or both, undertaken or financed in whole or in part, or both, by the department of transportation, the state highway authority, or the state road and tollway authority; or any road construction or maintenance project, or both, undertaken by any county or municipality; provided, however, that construction or maintenance projects of the department of transportation or the state road and tollway authority which disturb one or more contiguous acres of land shall be subject to provisions of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7.1; except where the department of transportation, the state highway authority, or the state road and tollway authority is a secondary permittee for a project located within a larger common plan of development or sale under the state general permit, in which case a copy of a notice of intent under the state general permit shall be submitted to the local issuing authority, the local issuing authority shall enforce compliance with the minimum requirements set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 as if a permit had been issued, and violations shall be subject to the same penalties as violations by permit holders;
(10)
Any land disturbing activities conducted by any electric membership corporation or municipal electrical system or any public utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the public service commission, any utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, any cable television system as defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1, or any agency or instrumentality of the United States engaged in the generation, transmission, or distribution of power; except where an electric membership corporation or municipal electrical system or any public utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the public service commission, any utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, any cable television system as defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1, or any agency or instrumentality of the United states engaged in the generation, transmission, or distribution of power is a secondary permittee for a project located within a larger common plan of development or sale under the state general permit, in which case the local issuing authority shall enforce compliance with the minimum requirements set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 as if a permit had been issued, and violations shall be subject to the same penalties as violations by permit holders; and
(11)
Any public water system reservoir.
(Ord. of 10-4-2016, § III)
Sec. 16-206. - Minimum requirements for erosion, sedimentation and pollution control using best management practices.
(a)
General provisions. Excessive soil erosion and resulting sedimentation can take place during land disturbing activities if requirements of this article and the NPDES general permit are not met. Therefore, plans for those land disturbing activities which are not exempted by this article shall contain provisions for application of soil erosion, sedimentation and pollution control measures and practices. The provisions shall be incorporated into the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plans. Soil erosion, sedimentation and pollution control measures and practices shall conform to the minimum requirements of subsections (b) and (c) of this section. The application of measures and practices shall apply to all features of the site, including street and utility installations, drainage facilities and other temporary and permanent improvements. Measures shall be installed to prevent or control erosion, sedimentation and pollution during all stages of any land disturbing activity in accordance with requirements of this article and the NPDES general permit.
(b)
Best management practices (BMPs).
(1)
Best management practices as set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of this section shall be required for all land disturbing activities. Proper design, installation, and maintenance of best management practices shall constitute a complete defense to any action by the director or to any other allegation of noncompliance with subsection (b)(2) of this section or any substantially similar terms contained in a permit for the discharge of stormwater issued pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f), the Georgia Water Quality Control Act. As used in this subsection, the terms "proper design" and "properly designed" mean designed in accordance with the hydraulic design specifications contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia specified in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6(b).
(2)
A discharge of stormwater runoff from disturbed areas where best management practices have not been properly designed, installed, and maintained shall constitute a separate violation of any land disturbing permit issued by a local issuing authority or of any state general permit issued by the division pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f), the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, for each day on which such discharge results in the turbidity of receiving waters being increased by more than 25 nephelometric turbidity units for waters supporting warm water fisheries or by more than ten nephelometric turbidity units for waters classified as trout waters. The turbidity of the receiving waters shall be measured in accordance with guidelines to be issued by the director. This subsection shall not apply to any land disturbance associated with the construction of single-family homes which are not part of a larger common plan of development or sale unless the planned disturbance for such construction is equal to or greater than five acres.
(3)
Failure to properly design, install, or maintain best management practices shall constitute a violation of any land disturbing permit issued by a local issuing authority or of any state general permit issued by the division pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f), the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, for each day on which such failure occurs.
(4)
The director may require, in accordance with regulations adopted by the board, reasonable and prudent monitoring of the turbidity level of receiving waters into which discharges from land disturbing activities occur.
(5)
The local issuing authority may set more stringent buffer requirements than stated in subsections (c)(15), (16) and (17) of this section, in light of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6(c).
(c)
Minimum requirements. The rules and regulations, ordinances, or resolutions adopted pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq. for the purpose of governing land disturbing activities shall require, as a minimum, protections at least as stringent as the state general permit; and best management practices, including sound conservation and engineering practices to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia, published by the state soil and water conservation commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land disturbing activity was permitted, as well as the following:
(1)
Stripping of vegetation, regrading and other development activities shall be conducted in a manner so as to minimize erosion;
(2)
Cut-fill operations must be kept to a minimum;
(3)
Development plans must conform to topography and soil type so as to create the lowest practicable erosion potential;
(4)
Whenever feasible, natural vegetation shall be retained, protected and supplemented;
(5)
The disturbed area and the duration of exposure to erosive elements shall be kept to a practicable minimum;
(6)
Disturbed soil shall be stabilized as quickly as practicable;
(7)
Temporary vegetation or mulching shall be employed to protect exposed critical areas during development;
(8)
Permanent vegetation and structural erosion control practices shall be installed as soon as practicable;
(9)
To the extent necessary, sediment in runoff water must be trapped by the use of debris basins, sediment basins, silt traps, or similar measures until the disturbed area is stabilized. As used in this subsection, a disturbed area is stabilized when it is brought to a condition of continuous compliance with the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq.;
(10)
Adequate provisions must be provided to minimize damage from surface water to the cut face of excavations or the sloping of fills;
(11)
Cuts and fills may not endanger adjoining property;
(12)
Fills may not encroach upon natural watercourses or constructed channels in a manner so as to adversely affect other property owners;
(13)
Grading equipment must cross flowing streams by means of bridges or culverts except when such methods are not feasible, provided, in any case, that such crossings are kept to a minimum;
(14)
Land disturbing activity plans for erosion, sedimentation and pollution control shall include provisions for treatment or control of any source of sediments and adequate sedimentation control facilities to retain sediments on-site or preclude sedimentation of adjacent waters beyond the levels specified in subsection (b)(2) of this section;
(15)
Except as provided in subsections (c)(16) and (17) of this section, there is established a 25-foot buffer along the banks of all state waters, as measured horizontally from the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, except where the director determines to allow a variance that is at least as protective of natural resources and the environment, where otherwise allowed by the director pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8, where a drainage structure or a roadway drainage structure must be constructed, provided that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated in the project plans and specifications, and are implemented; or where bulkheads and sea walls are installed to prevent shoreline erosion on Lake Oconee and Lake Sinclair; or along any ephemeral stream. As used in this subsection, the term "ephemeral stream" means a stream that under normal circumstances has water flowing only during and for a short duration after precipitation events; that has the channel located above the ground-water table year-round; for which groundwater is not a source of water; and for which runoff from precipitation is the primary source of water flow. Unless exempted as along an ephemeral stream, the buffers of at least 25 feet established pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq., the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, shall remain in force unless a variance is granted by the director as provided in this subsection. The following requirements shall apply to any such buffer:
a.
No land disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed state of vegetation until all land disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the streambed; provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the streambed; and
b.
The buffer shall not apply to the following land-disturbing activities, provided that they occur at an angle, as measured from the point of crossing, within 25 degrees of perpendicular to the stream; cause a width of disturbance of not more than 50 feet within the buffer; and adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and are implemented:
1.
Stream crossings for water lines; or
2.
Stream crossings for sewer lines; and
(16)
There is established a 50-foot buffer as measured horizontally from the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, along the banks of any state waters classified as "trout streams" pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq., the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, except where a roadway drainage structure must be constructed ; provided, however, that small springs and streams classified as trout streams which discharge an average annual flow of 25 gallons per minute or less shall have a 25-foot buffer or they may be piped, at the discretion of the landowner, pursuant to the terms of a rule providing for a general variance promulgated by the board, so long as any such pipe stops short of the downstream landowner's property and the landowner complies with the buffer requirement for any adjacent trout streams. The director may grant a variance from such buffer to allow land disturbing activity, provided that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated in the project plans and specifications and are implemented. The following requirements shall apply to such buffer:
a.
No land disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed, state of vegetation until all land disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the streambed: provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the streambed; and
b.
The buffer shall not apply to the following land disturbing activities, provided that they occur at an angle, as measured from the point of crossing, within 25 degrees of perpendicular to the stream; cause a width of disturbance of not more than 50 feet within the buffer; and adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and are implemented:
1.
Stream crossings for water lines; or
2.
Stream crossings for sewer lines; and
(17)
There is established a 25-foot buffer along coastal marshlands, as measured horizontally from the coastal marshland-upland interface, as determined in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 12-5-280 et seq., the Coastal Marshlands Protection Act of 1970, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, except where the director determines to allow a variance that is at least as protective of natural resources and the environment, where otherwise allowed by the director pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8, where an alteration within the buffer area has been authorized pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-286, for maintenance of any currently serviceable structure, landscaping, or hardscaping, including bridges, roads, parking lots, golf courses, golf cart paths, retaining walls, bulkheads, and patios; provided, however, that if such maintenance requires any land disturbing activity, adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented, where a drainage structure or roadway drainage structure is constructed or maintained; provided, however, that if such maintenance requires any land disturbing activity, adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented, on the landward side of any currently serviceable shoreline stabilization structure, or for the maintenance of any manmade stormwater detention basin, golf course pond, or impoundment that is located entirely within the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation; provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented. For the purposes of this subsection, maintenance shall be defined as actions necessary or appropriate for retaining or restoring a currently serviceable improvement to the specified operable condition to achieve its maximum useful life. Maintenance includes emergency reconstruction of recently damaged parts of a currently serviceable structure so long as it occurs within a reasonable period of time after damage occurs. Maintenance does not include any modification that changes the character, scope or size of the original design and serviceable shall be defined as usable in its current state or with minor maintenance but not so degraded as to essentially require reconstruction.
a.
No land disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed, state of vegetation until all land-disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat; provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat.
b.
The buffer shall not apply to crossings for utility lines that cause a width of disturbance of not more than 50 feet within the buffer; provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented.
c.
The buffer shall not apply to any land disturbing activity conducted pursuant to and in compliance with a valid and effective land disturbing permit issued subsequent to April 22, 2014, and prior to December 31, 2015; provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented or any lot for which the preliminary plat has been approved prior to December 31, 2015 if roadways, bridges, or water and sewer lines have been extended to such lot prior to the effective date of this Act and if the requirement to maintain a 25-foot buffer would consume at least 18 percent of the high ground of the platted lot otherwise available for development; provided, however, that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and such measures are fully implemented.
d.
Activities where the area within the buffer is not more than 500 square feet or that have a minor buffer impact as defined in Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. R 391-3-7-.01(r), provided that the total area of buffer impacts is less than 5,000 square feet are deemed to have an approved buffer variance by rule. Bank stabilization structures are not eligible for coverage under the variance by rule and notification shall be made to the division at least 14 days prior to the commencement of land disturbing activities.
(d)
Additional requirements. Nothing contained in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq. shall prevent any local issuing authority from adopting rules and regulations, ordinances, or resolutions which contain stream buffer requirements that exceed the minimum requirements in subsections (b) and (c) of this section.
(e)
Presumption of violation. The fact that land disturbing activity for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof of nor create a presumption of a violation of the standards provided for in this article or the terms of the permit.
(Ord. of 10-4-2016, § IV)
Sec. 16-207. - Application/permit process.
(a)
Generally. The property owner, developer and designated planners and engineers shall design and review before submittal the general development plans. The local issuing authority shall review the tract to be developed and the area surrounding it. They shall consult the zoning ordinance, stormwater management ordinance, subdivision ordinance, flood damage prevention ordinance, this article, and any other ordinances, rules, regulations or permits, which regulate the development of land within the jurisdictional boundaries of the local issuing authority. However, the owner and/or operator are the only parties who may obtain a permit.
(b)
Application requirements.
(1)
No person shall conduct any land disturbing activity within the jurisdictional boundaries of the county as established by intergovernmental agreement between Lee County and the cities of Leesburg and Smithville without first obtaining a permit from the county development services department to perform such activity and providing a copy of notice of intent submitted to EPD, if applicable.
(2)
The application for a permit shall be submitted to the director of planning and engineering of the county and must include the applicant's erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan with supporting data, as necessary. Said plans shall include, as a minimum, the data specified in subsection (c) of this section. Erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plans, together with supporting data, must demonstrate affirmatively that the land disturbing activity proposed will be carried out in such a manner that the provisions of section 16-206(b) and (c) will be met. Applications for a permit will not be accepted unless accompanied by five copies of the applicant's erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plans together with two copies of stormwater calculations. All applications shall contain a certification stating that the plan preparer or the designee thereof visited the site prior to creation of the plan in accordance with EPD Rule 391-3-7-.10 (Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. R 391-3-7-.10).
(3)
In addition to the local permitting fee of $450.00 payable to the county, fees will also be assessed pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-23(a)(5), provided that such fees shall not exceed $80.00 per acre of land disturbing activity, and these fees shall be calculated and paid by the primary permittee as defined in the state general permit for each acre of land disturbing activity included in the planned development or each phase of development. All applicable fees shall be paid prior to issuance of the land disturbance permit. In a jurisdiction that is certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a), half of such fees levied shall be submitted to the division; except that any and all fees due from an entity which is required to give notice pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-17(9) or (10) shall be submitted in full to the division, regardless of the existence of a local issuing authority in the jurisdiction.
(4)
Immediately upon receipt of an application and plan for a permit, the local issuing authority shall refer the application and plan to the district for its review and approval or disapproval concerning the adequacy of the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan. The district shall approve or disapprove a plan within 35 days of receipt. Failure of the district to act within 35 days shall be considered an approval of the pending plan. The results of the district review shall be forwarded to the local issuing authority. No permit will be issued unless the plan has been approved by the district, and any variances required by section 16-206(c)(15), (16) and (17) have been obtained, all fees have been paid, and bonding, if required as per subsection (b)(6) of this section, have been obtained. Such review will not be required if the local issuing authority and the district have entered into an agreement which allows the local issuing authority to conduct such review and approval of the plan without referring the application and plan to the district. The local issuing authority with the plan review authority shall approve or disapprove a revised plan submittal within 35 days of receipt. Failure of the local issuing authority with the plan review authority to act within 35 days shall be considered an approval of the revised plan submittal.
(5)
If a permit applicant has had two or more violations of previous permits, this section or other violations within the Lee County Land Development Code (Appendix C to this Code), or the Erosion and Sedimentation Act, as amended, on any single site or cumulative sites in the county within three years prior to the date of filing the application under consideration, the local issuing authority may deny the permit application.
(6)
The local issuing authority may require the permit applicant to post a bond in the form of government security, cash, irrevocable letter of credit, or any combination thereof up to, but not exceeding, $3,000.00 per acre or fraction thereof of the proposed land disturbing activity, prior to issuing the permit. If the applicant does not comply with this section or with the conditions of the permit after issuance, the local issuing authority may call the bond or any part thereof to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to stabilize the site of the land disturbing activity and bring it into compliance. These provisions shall not apply unless there is in effect an ordinance or statute specifically providing for hearing and judicial review of any determination or order of the local issuing authority with respect to alleged permit violations.
(7)
The planning and engineering department shall be authorized to issue a land development permit to approved applicants only after the following items for a complete application have been submitted:
a.
The $80.00 per disturbed acre fee has been paid with $40.00 paid to the district and $40.00 to the local issuing authority (i.e., Lee County).
b.
Approval from NRCS of the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan.
c.
The issuing authority (i.e., the county planning and engineering department) is provided with a copy of the NOI filed with the division for coverage under the general permit.
d.
All other applicable fees have been paid in full.
e.
All other requirements for issuance of a land development permit have been satisfied.
f.
Written proof that the applicant for the permit is the owner or the contractor of the owner with respect to the proposed project for which such permit is sought.
(c)
Plan requirements.
(1)
Plans must be prepared to meet the minimum requirements as contained in section 16-206(b) and (c), or through the use of more stringent, alternate design criteria which conform to sound conservation and engineering practices. The Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia is hereby incorporated by reference into this article. The plan for the land disturbing activity shall consider the interrelationship of the soil types, geological and hydrological characteristics, topography, watershed, vegetation, proposed permanent structures including roadways, constructed waterways, sediment control and stormwater management facilities, local ordinances and state laws. Maps, drawings and supportive computations shall bear the signature and seal of the certified design professional. Persons involved in land development design, review, permitting, construction, monitoring, or inspections or any land disturbing activity shall meet the education and training certification requirements, dependent on his level of involvement with the process, as developed by the commission and in consultation with the division and the stakeholder advisory board created pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-20.
(2)
Data required for site plan shall include all the information required from the appropriate erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan review checklist established by the commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land disturbing activity was permitted.
(d)
Permits.
(1)
Permits shall be issued or denied as soon as practicable but in any event not later than 45 days after receipt by the local issuing authority of a completed application, providing variances and bonding are obtained, where necessary and all applicable fees have been paid prior to permit issuance. The permit shall include conditions under which the activity may be undertaken.
(2)
No permit shall be issued by the local issuing authority unless the erosion, sedimentation and pollution control plan has been approved by the district and the local issuing authority has affirmatively determined that the plan is in compliance with this article, any variances required by section 16-206(c)(15), (16) and (17) are obtained, bonding requirements, if necessary, as per subsection (b)(6) of this section are met and all ordinances and rules and regulations in effect within the jurisdictional boundaries of the local issuing authority are met. If the permit is denied, the reason for denial shall be furnished to the applicant.
(3)
Any land disturbing activities by a local issuing authority shall be subject to the same requirements of this article, and any other ordinances relating to land development, as are applied to private persons and the division shall enforce such requirements upon the local issuing authority.
(4)
If the tract is to be developed in phases, then a separate permit shall be required for each phase.
(5)
The permit may be suspended, revoked, or modified by the local issuing authority, as to all or any portion of the land affected by the plan, upon finding that the holder or his successor in the title is not in compliance with the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan or that the holder or his successor in title is in violation of this article. A holder of a permit shall notify any successor in title to him as to all or any portion of the land affected by the approved plan of the conditions contained in the permit.
(6)
The local issuing authority may reject a permit application if the applicant has had two or more violations of previous permits or the Erosion and Sedimentation Act permit requirements within three years prior to the date of the application, in light of O.C.G.A. 12-7-7(f)(1).
(Ord. of 10-4-2016, § V)
Sec. 16-208. - Inspection and enforcement.
(a)
The planning and engineering director or his designee will periodically inspect the sites of land disturbing activities for which permits have been issued to determine if the activities are being conducted in accordance with the plan and if the measures required in the plan are effective in controlling erosion and sedimentation. Also, the local issuing authority shall regulate primary, secondary and tertiary permittees as such terms are defined in the state general permit. Primary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of best management practices where the primary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. Secondary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of best management practices where the secondary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. Tertiary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance where the tertiary permittee is conducting land disturbing activities. If, through inspection, it is deemed that a person engaged in land disturbing activities as defined herein has failed to comply with the approved plan, with permit conditions, or with the provisions of this article, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in the land disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he shall be deemed in violation of this article.
(b)
The local issuing authority must amend its ordinances to the extent appropriate within 12 months of any amendments to the Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq.
(c)
The planning and engineering director shall have the power to conduct such investigations as it may reasonably deem necessary to carry out duties as prescribed in this article, and for this purpose to enter at reasonable times upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigation and inspecting the sites of land disturbing activities.
(d)
No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized representative or agent of the local issuing authority, the commission, the district, or division who requests entry for the purposes of inspection, and who presents appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such representative while in the process of carrying out his official duties.
(e)
The district or the commission, or both, shall semiannually review the actions of counties and municipalities which have been certified as Local Issuing authorities pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a). The district or the commission, or both, may provide technical assistance to any county or municipality for the purpose of improving the effectiveness of the county's or municipality's erosion, sedimentation and pollution control program. The district or the commission shall notify the division and request investigation by the division if any deficient or ineffective local program is found.
(f) The division may periodically review the actions of counties and municipalities which have been certified as local issuing authorities pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a). Such review may include, but not be limited to, review of the administration and enforcement of a governing authority's ordinance and review of conformance with an agreement, if any, between the district and the governing authority. If such review indicates that the governing authority of any county or municipality certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. 12-7-8(a) has not administered or enforced its ordinances or has not conducted the program in accordance with any agreement entered into pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7(e), the division shall notify the governing authority of the county or municipality in writing. The governing authority of any county or municipality so notified shall have 90 days within which to take the necessary corrective action to retain certification as a local issuing authority. If the county or municipality does not take necessary corrective action within 90 days after notification by the division, the division shall revoke the certification of the county or municipality as a local issuing authority.
(Ord. of 10-4-2016, § VI)
Sec. 16-209. - Penalties and incentives.
(a)
Failure to obtain a permit for land disturbing activity. If any person commences any land disturbing activity requiring a land disturbing permit as prescribed in this article without first obtaining said permit, the person shall be subject to revocation of his business license, work permit or other authorization for the conduct of a business and associated work activities within the jurisdictional boundaries of the local issuing authority.
(b)
Stop work orders.
(1)
For the first and second violations of the provisions of this article, the director or the local issuing authority shall issue a written warning to the violator. The violator shall have five days to correct the violation. If the violation is not corrected within five days, the director or the local issuing authority shall issue a stop work order requiring that land disturbing activities be stopped until necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred; provided, however, that, if the violation presents an imminent threat to public health or waters of the state or if the land disturbing activities are conducted without obtaining the necessary permit, the director or the local issuing authority shall issue an immediate stop work order in lieu of a warning.
(2)
For a third and each subsequent violation, the director or the local issuing authority shall issue an immediate stop work order.
(3)
All stop work orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred.
(4)
When a violation in the form of taking action without a permit, failure to maintain a stream buffer, or significant amounts of sediment, as determined by the local issuing authority or by the director or his designee, have been or are being discharged into state waters and where best management practices have not been properly designed, installed, and maintained, a stop work order shall be issued by the local issuing authority or by the director or his designee. All such stop work orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred. Such stop work orders shall apply to all land disturbing activity on the site with the exception of the installation and maintenance of temporary or permanent erosion and sediment controls.
(c)
Bond forfeiture. If, through inspection, it is determined that a person engaged in land disturbing activities has failed to comply with the approved plan, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance with the plan and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in the land disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he shall be deemed in violation of this article and, in addition to other penalties, shall be deemed to have forfeited his performance bond, if required to post one under the provisions of section 16-207(b)(6). The local issuing authority may call the bond or any part thereof to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to stabilize the site of the land-disturbing activity and bring it into compliance.
(d)
Monetary penalties. Any person who violates any provisions of this article, or any permit condition or limitation established pursuant to this article, or who negligently or intentionally fails or refuses to comply with any final or emergency order of the director issued as provided in this article shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $2,500.00 per day. For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this article, notwithstanding any provisions in any city charter to the contrary, municipal courts shall be authorized to impose penalty not to exceed $2,500.00 for each violation. Notwithstanding any limitation of law as to penalties which can be assessed for violations of county ordinances, any magistrate court or any other court of competent jurisdiction trying cases brought as violations of this article under county ordinances approved under this article shall be authorized to impose penalties for such violations not to exceed $2,500.00 for each violation. Each day during which violation or failure or refusal to comply continues shall be a separate violation.
(Ord. of 10-4-2016, § VII)
Sec. 16-210. - Education and certification.
(a)
Persons involved in land development design, review, permitting, construction, monitoring, or inspection or any land disturbing activity shall meet the education and training certification requirements, dependent on their level of involvement with the process, as developed by the commission in consultation with the division and the stakeholder advisory board created pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-20.
(b)
For each site on which land disturbing activity occurs, each entity or person acting as either a primary, secondary, or tertiary permittee, as defined in the state general permit, shall have as a minimum one person who is in responsible charge of erosion and sedimentation control activities on behalf of said entity or person and meets the applicable education or training certification requirements developed by the commission present on site whenever land disturbing activities are conducted on that site. A project site shall herein be defined as any land disturbance site or multiple sites within a larger common plan of development or sale permitted by an owner or operator for compliance with the state general permit.
(c)
Persons or entities involved in projects not requiring a state general permit but otherwise requiring certified personnel on site may contract with certified persons to meet the requirements of this article.
(d)
If a state general permittee who has operational control of land disturbing activities for a site has met the certification requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-19(b)(1), then any person or entity involved in land disturbing activity at that site and operating in a subcontractor capacity for such permittee shall meet those educational requirements specified in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-19(b)(4) and shall not be required to meet any educational requirements that exceed those specified in such statute.
(Ord. of 10-4-2016, § VIII)
Sec. 16-211. - Administrative appeal; judicial review.
(a)
Administrative remedies. The suspension, revocation, modification or grant with condition of a permit by the local issuing authority upon finding that the holder is not in compliance with the approved erosion, sediment and pollution control plan; or that the holder is in violation of permit conditions; or that the holder is in violation of any ordinance; shall entitle the person submitting the plan or holding the permit to a hearing before the county board of commissioners within 45 days after receipt by the local issuing authority of written notice of appeal.
(b)
Judicial review. Any person, aggrieved by a decision or order of the local issuing authority, after exhausting his administrative remedies, shall have the right to appeal de novo to the superior court of the county.
(Ord. of 10-4-2016, § IX)
Sec. 16-212. - Liability.
(a)
Neither the approval of a plan under the provisions of this article, nor the compliance with provisions of this article shall relieve any person from the responsibility for damage to any person or property otherwise imposed by law nor impose any liability upon the local issuing authority or district for damage to any person or property.
(b)
The fact that a land disturbing activity for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof of nor create a presumption of a violation of the standards provided for in this article or the terms of the permit.
(c)
No provision of this article shall permit any persons to violate the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975 (O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq.), the Georgia Water Quality Control Act (O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq.) or the rules and regulations promulgated and approved thereunder or pollute any waters of the state as defined thereby.
(Ord. of 10-4-2016, § X)
