ARTICLE XII. - C-4 TRANSITIONAL OFFICE DISTRICT

Sec. 12.01. - Statement of purpose.
The C-4 Transitional Office District established in this article is intended to permit those offices and restricted business uses which will provide opportunities for local employment close to residential areas, thus reducing travel to and from work and which will provide clean, modern office buildings in a landscaped setting or the appropriate re-use of existing residential dwellings; which will provide, adjacent to residential areas, appropriate districts for uses which do not generate large volumes of traffic, traffic congestion and parking problems; and which will promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with the future land use plan. The zones are intended for those corridors in transition where residential uses are adjacent and also are still located along the corridor.
Sec. 12.02. - Permitted uses.
Permitted uses in the C-4 district are as follows:
(a)
All permitted uses are subject to the restrictions set forth in section 12.05 of this article.
(b)
Single-family dwellings, except manufactured homes.
(c)
Family day care, group day care, adult day care and related uses.
(d)
Nursery schools, kindergartens, or day care facilities provided all state licensing requirements are met.
(e)
Temporary emergency construction and repair residences.
(f)
Offices of any type; clinical, research and services not primarily related to goods of merchandise.
(g)
Operations designed to attract and serve customer or client on the premises such as office of attorney, physicians and other professions.
(h)
Other uses similar to the above, subject to the restrictions set forth in section 12.05 of this article.
Sec. 12.03. - Conditional uses.
All conditional uses in the C-4 district are subject to the restrictions set forth in section 12.05 of this article.
(1)
Bed and breakfast inn.
(2)
Banks with drive-in windows.
(3)
Hospitals or nursing homes.
(4)
Personal care homes for groups or families.
(5)
Group homes or halfway houses.
(6)
Places of worship.
Sec. 12.04. - Protective screening.
Protective screening for C-4 districts adjacent to or across the street (with the exception of arterial or collector roads) from residential zoning districts shall be in compliance with section 3.12 of this ordinance.
Sec. 12.05. - Restrictions.
The following restrictions shall apply to all permitted and conditional businesses covered by this article:
(1)
All outdoor business operations shall be subject to the following restrictions:
a.
There shall be no outdoor storage or display of any kind.
b.
No business or activity, indoor or outdoor, shall be conducted in a manner which violates the noise ordinance of the City of Leesburg, nor shall any business activities, indoor or outdoor, cause decibel levels as taken in nearby residential neighborhoods to be such that they violate the restrictions set forth for that neighborhood in the noise ordinance of the City of Leesburg.
(2)
Retail businesses shall have no more than 7,000 square feet of gross floor area.
(3)
No business operations shall be conducted between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. with the exception of normal business opening and closing activities (i.e., cleaning, restocking, etc.). Nor shall any establishment be open to the public during those hours.
(4)
Unless specifically covered by this article, all other sections of this article shall apply to all establishments.
(5)
Manufactured or mobile homes are not to be used as retail, office, etc.
(6)
Buildings constructed under this article shall not have a metal facade fronting any public road.
Sec. 12.06. - Area, height, bulk and placement requirements.
Area, height, bulk and placement requirements in the C-4 district are as follows:
EXPAND
Minimum lot size
Well and septic 1.5 acres
Water and septic 0.75 acres
Water and sewer No requirement
Lot width at setback
Well and septic 150'
Water and septic 100'
Water and sewer 80'
Minimum building setback
Front 35'
Rear 10'
Side 10'
Maximum height 50'
  * Each lot shall have, at a minimum, a 30-foot-wide access to a public road.
This height limitation shall not apply to grain elevators, silos, windmills, elevator legs, cooling towers, water towers, chimneys and smokestacks, or spires on places of worship.
