ARTICLE XIV. - NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES

Sec. 14.01. - Compliance with article required.
Any lawful use of land or buildings existing at the date of adoption of this ordinance or amendments thereto and located in a district in which it would not be permitted as a use under the regulations of this ordinance including amendments thereto is hereby declared to be a "nonconforming use" and not in violation of this ordinance; provided, however, that a nonconforming use shall be subject to, and the owner shall comply with, the following regulations.
Sec. 14.02. - Nonconforming buildings and uses.
A nonconforming use of land or a nonconforming building which existed as of the date of adoption of this ordinance or amendments thereto, may be continued provided that:
(1)
No such use of nonconforming land or buildings shall in any way be expanded or extended; and
(2)
If such use of nonconforming land or buildings or any portion thereof is discontinued or changed, any future use of such land shall be in conformity with provisions of this ordinance and all amendments thereto.
Sec. 14.03. - Discontinuance or abandonment.
Any nonconforming use of land or building which has become unused, vacant or remains unoccupied due to abandonment or discontinuance of use for a period of 180 days shall thereafter conform to the provisions of this ordinance and all amendments thereto.
Sec. 14.04. - Alterations.
Any nonconforming building or nonconforming use which has been damaged by fire, explosion, act of God, or by public enemy may be restored to the same nonconformity or nonconforming use as existed before such damage, provided that the building or use shall not be expanded. Due to critical public health and safety considerations, this section 14.04 shall not apply to mobile homes which, of so damaged or destroyed, shall not be replaced or restored but shall instead be replaced by either a manufactured home, or, a use and structure complying with the zoning district regulations.
Sec. 14.05. - Change of tenancy or ownership.
There may be a change in tenancy, ownership, or management of an existing nonconforming use of land provided the nonconformity is not abandoned or discontinued for more than 180 days.
