Chapter 26 - WATER SYSTEM[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Adoption of ordinances, rules and regulations relating to payment for street improvements and construction of water, gas and sewer connections, payment of costs of connections, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-7.

Sec. 26-1. - Water rates.
(a)
The water rate schedules for the city will be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the city council.
(b)
Extraordinary circumstances such as subdivision extensions, multiple dwelling units, and industrial users and fire protection shall be governed by special contract agreements made by the mayor and council.
(Code 1981, § 1)
Sec. 26-2. - Application for water service.
The consumer shall make application for water service, in person, at the city hall, and at the same time shall make a cash security deposit in an amount determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the city council for said water service.
(Code 1981, § 2)
Sec. 26-3. - Charges for initial water service.
Each consumer subscribing to use the water service of the city shall pay a connection fee in an amount determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the city council times the number of connections desired for water service.
(Code 1981, § 3)
Sec. 26-4. - Minimum charges.
The minimum charges as provided in the rate schedule shall be made for such connection subscribed for. Water furnished for a given lot shall be used on that lot only and, except for fire protection, the city shall not under any condition furnish water free of charge to anyone.
(Code 1981, § 4)
Sec. 26-5. - City's responsibility and liability.
The city shall run a service line from its distribution line to the property line where the distribution line exists or is to be constructed and runs immediately adjacent and parallel to the property to be served. No service charge other than the connection fee referred to in section 26-3 shall be made for a five-eighths-inch by three-fourths-inch meter. A proportionately greater charge than the connection fee will be made for a meter of larger dimensions.
(1)
The city may make connections to service other properties not adjacent to its lines upon payment of reasonable costs for the extensions of its distribution lines as may be required to render such service.
(2)
The city may install its meter at or near the property line or at the city's option on the consumer's property within three feet of the property line.
(3)
The city reserves the right to refuse service unless the consumer's lines or pipings are installed in such a manner as to prevent cross-connections or flow-back.
(4)
Under normal conditions the consumer will be notified of any anticipated interruptions of service by the city.
(Code 1981, § 5)
Sec. 26-6. - Consumer's responsibility and liability.
Water furnished by the city shall be used for consumption by the consumer, members of his household and employees only. The consumer shall not sell water to any other person or permit any other person to use said water. Water shall not be used for irrigation, fire protection, nor other purposes, except when water is available in sufficient quantity without interfering with the regular domestic consumption in the area served. Disregard for this rule shall be sufficient cause for refusal and/or discontinuance of service.
(1)
Where meter or meter box is placed on the premises of a consumer, a suitable place shall be provided by the consumer therefore unobstructed and accessible at all times to the meter reader.
(2)
The consumer shall furnish and maintain a private cutoff valve on the consumer's side of the meter.
(3)
The consumer's piping and apparatus shall be installed and maintained by the consumer at the consumer's expense, in a safe and efficient manner and in accordance with the sanitary regulations of the state health department.
(4)
In order to be received as a consumer and entitled to receive water from the city's water system, all applicants must offer proof that any private wells located on their property are not physically connected to the lines of the city's water system, and all applicants by becoming consumers of the city covenant and agree that so long as they continue to be consumers of the city they will not permit the connection of any private wells on their property to the city's water system.
(Code 1981, § 6)
Sec. 26-7. - Access to premises and extensions of system.
(a)
Duly authorized agents of the city shall have access at all hours to the land of the consumer for the purpose of installing or removing city property, inspecting piping, reading and testing meters, or for any other purpose in connection with the water service and its facilities.
(b)
Extensions to the system shall be made only when the consumer shall grant or convey or shall cause to be granted or conveyed to the city a permanent easement or right-of-way across any property traversed by the water lines.
(Code 1981, § 7)
Sec. 26-8. - Change of occupancy.
Not less than three days' notice shall be given, in person or in writing, at the city hall to discontinue water service or to change occupancy. The outgoing party shall be responsible for all water consumed up to the time of departure or the time specified for departure, whichever period is longer. The new occupant shall apply for water service within 48 hours after occupying the premises and failure to do so will make him liable for paying the water consumed since the last meter reading.
(Code 1981, § 8)
Sec. 26-9. - Meter reading; billings; collecting.
(a)
Bills to consumers for water service shall be mailed out on such day or days of each month as may be determined desirable by the city. The failure of water users to pay charges duly imposed shall result in the automatic imposition of the following penalties:
(1)
Nonpayment within 28 days from due date will be subject to a penalty of ten percent of the delinquent account.
(2)
Nonpayment within 40 days from the due date will result in the water being shut off from the water user's property.
(3)
Nonpayment for 60 days after original due date will allow the city, in addition to all other rights and remedies, to terminate agreement and, in such event, the water user shall not be entitled to receive nor the city obligated to supply any water under this agreement.
(b)
Water service shall not be reconnected until consumer's delinquent bill, including penalty and disconnection charges, have been paid in full. Should such consumer thereafter desire to be reconnected to the water system, a reconnection charge of $5.00 shall be collected. Bills shall be paid at the city hall and a failure to receive bills or notices shall not prevent such bills from becoming delinquent nor relieve the consumer from payment of same.
(Code 1981, § 9)
Sec. 26-10. - Suspension of service.
When water service is discontinued and all bills paid, the security deposit shall be refunded to the consumer by the city.
(1)
Upon discontinuance of service for nonpayment of bills, the security deposit will be applied by the city toward settlement of the account. Any balance will be refunded to the consumer; however, if the security deposit is insufficient to cover the bill, the city may proceed to collect the balance in the usual way provided by law for collection of debts.
(2)
Service disconnected for nonpayment of bills will be restored only after bills are paid in full, such security deposit as may be required by the mayor and council is made, and a service charge of $5.00 paid for each meter reconnected.
(3)
The city reserves a right to discontinue its service without notice for the following additional reasons:
a.
To prevent fraud or abuse.
b.
Consumer's willful disregard of the city's rules.
c.
Emergency repairs.
d.
Insufficiency of water supply due to circumstances beyond the city's control.
e.
Legal processes.
f.
Direction of public authorities.
g.
Strike, riot, fire, flood, unavoidable accident.
(Code 1981, § 10)
Sec. 26-11. - Complaints; adjustments.
If the consumer believes his bill to be in error, he shall present his claim in person at the city hall before the bill becomes delinquent. Such claim, if made after the bill has become delinquent, shall not be effective in preventing discontinuance of service as heretofore provided. The consumer may pay such bill under protest and said payment shall not prejudice his claim.
(1)
The city will make a special water meter reading at the request of a consumer for a fee of $5.00; provided, however, that if such special reading discloses that the meter was over-read, no charge will be made.
(2)
Water meters will be tested at the request of the consumer upon payment to the city of the actual cost of making the test; provided, however, that if the meter is found to be over register beyond three percent of the correct volume no charge will be made.
(3)
If the seal of a meter is broken by other than the city's representative or if the meter fails to register correctly or is stopped for any cause, the consumer shall pay an amount estimated from the record of his previous bill and/or from other data.
(Code 1981, § 11)
