Chapter 23 - STREETS, CURBS AND SIDEWALKS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, streetlights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4); state, county and municipal road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-1 et seq.; municipal street systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-90 et seq.; regulation of maintenance and use of public roads generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 23-1. - Maintenance and repair of public streets.
All maintenance and repair of public streets, alleys, curbs, sidewalks and other public ways shall be under the supervision of the governing body or its authorized representative who shall have the responsibility of enforcing all provisions of this Code and all ordinances of the city relating to such public ways.
(Code 1981, § 17-1)
Sec. 23-2. - Defacing sidewalks, streets and curbs.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface any public sidewalk, street or curb in the city by painting any signs thereon, whether for commercial advertising purposes or not, or to walk or drive any vehicle upon or injure in any way any newly laid street, sidewalk or curbing pavement while the same is guarded by a warning sign or barricaded or is soft or newly laid.
(Code 1981, § 17-2)
Sec. 23-3. - Deposits onto streets and sidewalks.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit on any street or sidewalk any material which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any glass or other article which may do injury to any person, animal or property.
(Code 1981, § 17-3)
Sec. 23-4. - Obstructing streets, sidewalks.
It shall be unlawful for any person to convert any public street, sidewalk or alley in the city to his use, or place any obstruction in or upon them, or either of them, such as wood, barrels and boxes, merchandise, timber or lumber, except necessarily for building purposes, and such obstruction shall be moved by the police department at the expense of the owner thereof or the person causing said obstruction; provided, however, that this section shall not prohibit the placing of goods, wares, merchandise, produce, boxes, barrels, or other articles on the sidewalks within three feet from the wall of a building owned or leased by the person placing such article.
(Code 1981, § 17-4)
Sec. 23-5. - Obstruction to vision at intersections.
It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in charge of any lot, parcel or piece of land within the city to allow any obstruction to vision in the triangle formed by the lines of two intersecting streets, or a street and any alley, and a line joining points of such lines 25 feet distant from their point of intersection by permitting any vegetation to grow or be maintained between the heights of three feet and ten feet above the grade of the center line of the intersection, or by constructing or maintaining any fence or other structure which constitutes an obstruction to view within the triangle.
(Code 1981, § 17-5)
Sec. 23-6. - Street name signs—Changing without authority.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed any sign designating a street, avenue or other public place by a different name than that by which it is generally and legally known, or to refuse to remove the same from their property when requested to do so by an officer of the city.
(Code 1981, § 17-6)
Sec. 23-7. - Same—Injuring or removing.
It shall be unlawful for any person willfully and maliciously to injure, deface or remove any of the street signs posted at or near the corner of the streets in the city.
(Code 1981, § 17-7)
Sec. 23-8. - Maintenance of property between sidewalks and streets.
All persons who own real estate in the city, whose real estate abuts upon any sidewalk which is paved, shall be required to keep the portion of such sidewalk which lies between the property line and the curb line of the adjoining street, and upon which his real estate abuts, in good and smooth condition and free from growing weeds and other obnoxious and unsightly vegetation which would mar or detract from the beauty and cleanliness of the street upon which their property abuts. Any property owner who shall place or allow grass to grow upon the portion of the sidewalk lying between the property line and the curb line of the street as aforesaid, and upon which his real estate abuts, shall keep such grass properly mowed and free from rubbish of all kinds. If such owners are not in the possession of their property, then this section shall apply to their tenants or those who have possession or control of the same.
(Code 1981, § 17-8)
Sec. 23-9. - Trees and shrubs.
(a)
Planting and removal. It shall be unlawful for any person to plant, remove, injure or cut any tree, bush or shrub in or from any public street, parkway or other public place without first obtaining a permit therefor from the city clerk in the manner specified in this chapter.
(b)
Dangerous trees. Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public place in the city in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or travel, shall be trimmed by the owner of the premises on which such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease. Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which such tree grows or stands. The city through its authorized representative may cause to be trimmed or removed any and all such trees or shrubs so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or passage shall be removed.
(c)
Poles and wires. Any person or company which maintains poles and wires in the streets, alleys, or other public places of the city shall keep such wires and poles free and away from any nearby trees or shrubs in such places, and keep all such trees and shrubs property trimmed, so that no injury shall befall either the poles and wires or the shrubs and trees by their contact.
(Code 1981, § 17-9)
Sec. 23-10. - Encroachments.
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any building or structure which encroaches upon any public street or property, or to erect any poles or wires or maintain any poles or wires over any public place, street, alley or other public way without having first secured a permit from the city clerk in the manner specified in this chapter.
(Code 1981, § 17-10)
Sec. 23-11. - Report of defects, obstruction, deposits and discharges.
It shall be the duty of every city official and employee who becomes aware of any defect or obstruction, or of any unlawful deposit or discharge, in or on any public street, alley, curb, sidewalk or other public way of the city to report the same to the city clerk as soon as possible.
(Code 1981, § 17-11)
Secs. 23-12—23-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STREET CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 23-41. - Street improvements.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or lay any pavement for or on any public street, sidewalk, curb, alley, or other public way, or to repair the same, without having first obtained a permit from the city clerk in the manner specified in this chapter.
(b)
Each applicant for a permit to construct or improve any pavement on any public street, sidewalk, curb, alley, or other public way shall be required to file a bond with surety to be determined by the city council, conditioned to indemnify the city for any loss or damage caused by or resulting from the work undertaken.
(Code 1981, § 17-16)
Sec. 23-42. - Specifications.
All street and sidewalk pavements and all curbing shall be laid in conformity with the specifications established or approved from time to time by the mayor and council.
(Code 1981, § 17-17)
Secs. 23-43—23-72. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EXCAVATIONS

Sec. 23-73. - Definition.
The phrase "public place," as employed in this article, shall be construed to mean a street, alley, sidewalk or other public property owned by the city or under its supervision.
(Code 1981, § 17-22)
Sec. 23-74. - Permit to excavate; required.
(a)
No person shall dig or excavate in any public place within the city or install, repair or replace any property or equipment in such public place, or do any other work in or on any public place, which requires the removal or breaking of the surface or under part of any such public place, unless and until such person shall have first secured, in the manner provided in this chapter, permission to do so.
(b)
If any person shall do any of the acts referred to in this section without first having secured permission to do so in the manner provided in this chapter, he shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(Code 1981, § 17-23)
Sec. 23-75. - Failure to complete or restore.
Upon the failure of any person, whose application to dig or excavate shall have been granted and who shall have begun the work, to complete the same without delay, or upon the completion of such work, to restore the public place to the same or as good a condition as the same was before such work was done, or to comply with any reasonable rules or regulations of the mayor and council from time to time given to such person for the completion and restoration of such public place, such person shall upon conviction, in addition to other penalties, forfeit to the city any deposit of money so made with the city clerk.
(Code 1981, § 17-24)
Sec. 23-76. - Restoration by city.
Upon the failure of any person to make such repairs as herein required in the manner or in the time required, the mayor and council is empowered and authorized to cause such repairs to be made and such public place to be restored to its original condition, and the cost thereof, plus 25 percent thereof, shall be charged to and paid by such person who so failed to make such repairs, and such sum of money shall constitute and be a debt due from such person to the city.
(Code 1981, § 17-25)
Sec. 23-77. - Prompt work.
All digging or excavating to be done, as provided in this chapter, shall be promptly started and completed without delay after permission shall have been granted, and such public place shall be, immediately upon the completion of such work, restored to the same or as good condition as the same was before such work was done thereon. Such work or restoration shall be at all times and in all respects in compliance with the orders and supervision of the mayor and council and from time to time given to such person for such purpose.
(Code 1981, § 17-26)
Sec. 23-78. - Warning devices; posting permit.
Upon the granting of an application for permission to dig or excavate in any public place, and in all other cases provided for in this chapter, it shall be the duty of the applicant, before beginning any such work, to enclose the place where such work is being done or otherwise afford adequate protection to street traffic. He shall post and keep posted at such place a placard showing that the work is being done under a permit granted by the city, with sufficient other information thereon to give ample warning to those using such public place that the same is out of repair or being repaired, and in addition thereto, he shall place sufficient markings at night by a red light, to notify those having the right to use the same that such public place, or part thereof, is closed.
(Code 1981, § 17-27)
Sec. 23-79. - Clearance for fire equipment.
The excavation work shall be performed and conducted so as not to interfere with access to fire stations and fire hydrants. Materials or obstructions shall not be placed within 15 feet of fire plugs. Passageways leading to fire escapes or firefighting equipment shall be kept free of piles of material or other obstructions.
(Code 1981, § 17-28)
Sec. 23-80. - Protection of adjoining property.
The permittee shall at all times and at his own expense preserve and protect from injury any adjoining property by providing proper foundations and taking other measures suitable for such purpose. Where in the protection of such property it is necessary to enter upon private property for the purpose of taking appropriate protective measures, the permittee shall obtain permission from the owner of such private property for such purpose. The permittee shall, at his own expense shore up and protect all buildings, walls fences or other property likely to be damaged during the progress of the excavation work and shall be responsible for all damage to public or private property or highways resulting from his failure to properly protect and carry out said work. Whenever it may be necessary for the permittee to trench through any lawn area, the sod shall be carefully cut and rolled and replaced after ditches have been back filled. All construction and maintenance work shall be done in a manner calculated to leave the lawn area clear of earth and debris and in a condition as nearly as possible to that which existed before such work began. The permittee shall not remove even temporarily any trees or shrubs which exist in parking strip areas or easements across private property without first having notified and obtained the consent of the property owner, or in the case of public property the governing authority or its authorized representative.
(Code 1981, § 17-29)
Sec. 23-81. - Sidewalk excavations.
Any excavation made in any sidewalk or under a sidewalk shall be provided with a substantial and adequate footbridge over said excavation on the line of the sidewalk, which bridge shall be at least three feet wide and securely railed on each side so that pedestrians can pass over safely at all times.
(Code 1981, § 17-30)
Sec. 23-82. - Protective measures.
The permittee shall erect such fence, railing or barriers about the site of the excavation work as shall prevent danger to persons using the street or sidewalk, and such protective barriers shall be maintained until the work shall be completed or the danger removed. At twilight, there shall be placed upon each place of excavation and upon any excavated materials or structures or other obstructions to streets suitable and sufficient lights which shall be kept burning throughout the night during the maintenance of such obstructions.
(Code 1981, § 17-31)
Sec. 23-83. - Care of excavated material.
All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to the trench or in any street shall be piled and maintained in such manner as not to endanger those working in the trench, pedestrians or users of the streets, and so that as little inconvenience as possible is caused to those using streets and adjoining property.
(Code 1981, § 17-32)
Sec. 23-84. - Damage to existing improvements.
All damage done to existing improvements during the progress of the excavation work shall be repaired by the permittee. Materials for such repair shall conform to the requirements of any applicable Code provision or ordinance of the city. If upon being ordered the permittee fails to furnish the necessary labor and materials for such repairs, the city or its authorized representative shall have the authority to cause said necessary labor and materials to be furnished and the cost shall be charged against the permittee, who shall also be liable on his bond therefor.
(Code 1981, § 17-33)
Sec. 23-85. - Cleanup.
As the excavation work progresses all streets and private properties shall be thoroughly cleaned of all rubbish, excess earth, rock and other debris resulting from such work. All cleanup operations at the location of such excavation shall be accomplished at the expense of the permittee and shall be completed to the satisfaction of the city or its authorized representative. From time to time as may be ordered by said city through its authorized representative and in any event immediately after completion of said work, the permittee shall at his own expense clean up and remove all refuse and unused materials of any kind resulting from said work and upon failure to do so within 24 hours after having been so notified said work may be done by the city and the cost thereof charged to the permittee, and the permittee shall also be liable for the cost thereof under the surety bond provided hereunder.
(Code 1981, § 17-34)
Sec. 23-86. - Noise, dust and debris.
The permittee shall take appropriate measures to reduce to the fullest extent practicable noise, dust and unsightly debris and shall conduct and carry out the excavation work in such manner as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the general public and occupants of neighboring property.
(Code 1981, § 17-35)
Sec. 23-87. - Inspections.
The governing authority or its authorized representative shall make such inspections as are reasonably necessary in the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and shall have the authority to promulgate and cause to be enforced such rules and regulations as may be required by the mayor and council of the city.
(Code 1981, § 17-36)
Sec. 23-88. - Decision of mayor and council final.
Any controversy between the person or company acquiring a permit or making a deposit in order to dig or excavate in any public place and the city clerk or the city's authorized representative respecting any of the duties to be performed by any of them, may be submitted to the mayor and council by any of the parties, and when so submitted, the action of the mayor and council thereon shall be binding on all the parties.
(Code 1981, § 17-37)
Secs. 23-89—23-119. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - ISSUANCE OF PERMITS

Sec. 23-120. - Application for permit.
Every person required to procure a permit under the provisions of this chapter or any ordinance or law of this municipality relating to the subject matter of this chapter shall submit a written application for such permit to the city clerk. The written application shall state the following:
(1)
The name and address of the applicant;
(2)
The purpose for which the application is submitted;
(3)
The nature and location of any work proposed to be done and the name of the person or firm, who is to do such work;
(4)
The estimated cost of the proposed work;
(5)
The date of commencement and date of completion of the proposed work, and other data or plans as may reasonably be required by the mayor and council.
(Code 1981, § 17-42)
Sec. 23-121. - Permit fee.
Unless otherwise provided, each application for a permit under this chapter shall be accompanied by a permit fee as established from time to time by the governing body.
(1)
The city clerk shall issue a receipt to the applicant for the amount of the fee tendered with the application for a permit, provided that such receipt shall not be construed as approval of the application.
(2)
Upon the disapproval of any application for which a fee has been submitted under the provisions of this chapter, the city clerk shall refund such fee, provided that the applicant is not otherwise indebted to the city.
(Code 1981, § 17-43)
Sec. 23-122. - Review of application.
Upon receipt of the application for a permit under the provisions of this chapter, the city clerk shall forward such application to the mayor and council, who shall approve or disapprove such application during the council meeting following receipt thereof based on, but not limited to, the following provisions:
(1)
That the work shall be done according to the standard specifications of the city for public work of like character;
(2)
That the operation will not unreasonably interfere with vehicle and pedestrian traffic and the means of egress to and from the property affected and adjacent properties; and
(3)
That the health, welfare and safety of the public will not be unreasonably impaired.
(Code 1981, § 17-44)
Sec. 23-123. - Issuance of permit.
Upon receipt of an approved application from the mayor and council, the city clerk shall issue a permit to the applicant therefor, which permit shall state the nature of the work to be done or activity to be carried out and bear the date of issuance and the signature of the city clerk.
(Code 1981, § 17-45)
Sec. 23-124. - Display of permit.
It shall be the duty of any permittee hereunder to keep the permit issued to him in a conspicuous place at the site of the work or activity to be engaged in. It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit each permit at or about any location not covered by such permit, or to misrepresent the number of the permit or the date of expiration of the permit.
(Code 1981, § 17-46)
Sec. 23-125. - Limitation of issuance.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no permit shall be issued to any applicant therefor who has failed to satisfy any bonding requirement imposed upon persons engaged in the kind of work or activity proposed to be done or carried out by such applicant.
(Code 1981, § 17-47)
