Chapter 21 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.; establishment of municipal courts authorized and jurisdiction thereof, Ga. Const. art. VI, § I, ¶ I.

Sec. 21-1. - Municipal court.
Municipal court shall try violations of municipal ordinances and shall have the power and authority to impose fines and imprisonment upon persons convicted of said offenses Said court shall convene at such times and on such occasions as the governing body of the city may deem proper and expedient.
(Code 1981, § 11-1)
Sec. 21-2. - Qualifications of judge.
In addition to the qualification and eligibility requirements of Charter section 4.11(b), the judge of the municipal court shall be capable of interpreting and applying applicable state law, and the city's Charter and Code of Ordinances in the promulgation of objective and unbiased determinations. The judge of municipal court shall be appointed by the mayor and city council and shall serve on such terms as they may direct.
(Code 1981, § 11-2)
Sec. 21-3. - Procedural rights of defendant; sound construction of law required.
Any person charged with any offense against any of the ordinances of the city shall be informed, by summons in writing served on him, of the nature and cause of the accusation; shall have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his behalf; shall have a speedy trial in the municipal court; shall be confronted with the witnesses against him and have the privilege of cross examination, as in the superior courts of the state. The same rules as to the examination of witnesses and the evidence adduced as obtains in said courts shall prevail in the municipal court as far as practicable and applicable. A sound construction of the city Charter and this Code of Ordinances shall be applicable to cases before the municipal court. No one shall be fined or punished without an opportunity of being heard in defense.
(Code 1981, § 11-4)
Sec. 21-4. - Service of summons.
Any person charged with violating any laws of the city shall receive notice by service of a summons as herein provided. Such summons shall be issued by the judge of the municipal court upon the request of the city clerk or any police officer of the city. The summons shall be directed to the accused and shall distinctly state the offense charged, the time and place, as far as practicable, of the offense charged, and the day, hour and place of trial, requiring the accused to appear before the judge of the municipal court to answer the accusation made. Service of the summons shall be made by a police officer of the city by serving the accused personally or by leaving a copy at his most notorious place of abode, except that in the case of a summons issued for violation of laws or ordinances relating to the parking of motor vehicles, such summons may be directed to an unknown person as owner of an automobile designated in the summons and may be served upon such person by leaving a copy in or attached to such automobile. (Note: Ga. Code Ann., § 24-1105.)
(Code 1981, § 11-6)
Sec. 21-5. - Witness subpoena; issuance; service.
The city clerk shall issue subpoenas for the appearance of all witnesses necessary for the prosecution or for the defense in any case pending before the municipal court upon the direction of the judge of said court. All subpoenas shall be served in the same manner as a summons.
(Code 1981, § 11-7)
Sec. 21-6. - Failure to obey summons or subpoena.
Any person who fails to appear at the time and place set out in any summons or subpoena served upon him shall be subject to a contempt of court proceeding before the municipal judge.
(Code 1981, § 11-8)
Sec. 21-7. - Arrest and bond.
When a police officer has arrested any person for violation of any provision of this Code or any municipal ordinance and a trial cannot be had immediately, the officer may take a cash bond not exceeding the maximum fine for the offense or a bond with a good security for the appearance of such person before the judge of the municipal court. If such person fails or refuses to give a bond the officer may confine him in the city guardhouse or county jail until a trial can be held, provided that the municipal judge, in his discretion, may release such person on his own recognizance without security to appear at the next session of the municipal court to answer said violations.
(Code 1981, § 11-9)
Sec. 21-8. - Forfeiture of bond.
Upon the failure of a person to appear in the municipal court at the time and place fixed by the summons, the bond shall be forfeited by the presiding municipal judge, and execution and enforcement proceedings shall be in accordance with section 4.13(e) of the city Charter.
(Code 1981, § 11-10)
Sec. 21-9. - Execution for fines.
When any fine is imposed by the municipal court, if the sum is not immediately paid, the clerk shall issue an execution instanter to be levied upon the goods, chattels, lands, and tenements of the person so fined. This execution shall bear test in the name of the mayor and shall be signed officially by the clerk and shall be directed to the chief of police.
(Code 1981, § 11-11)
Sec. 21-10. - Record of cases.
A record of all cases heard in the municipal court for the violation of this Code or other municipal ordinances shall be kept in a suitable bound volume by the city clerk. Such record shall contain the name of the defendant, the nature of the offense charged, the final disposition of the case, and the date of final disposition.
(Code 1981, § 11-12)
Sec. 21-11. - Appeals; certiorari.
In accordance with Charter section 4.14, any appeal from a decision of the municipal court shall be taken to the superior court of the county under the laws of the state regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
(Code 1981, § 11-13)
