Chapter 22 - REVENUE AND FINANCE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Taxation power of municipal and county governments, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ I(a), (b)(2); ad valorem taxation of property, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 22-1—22-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TAXATION

Sec. 22-19. - Ad valorem tax.
(a)
Rate of levy. In order to meet the extraordinary and ordinary current expenses of the city, an annual ad valorem tax shall be levied upon all real and certain personal property within the city. The mayor and city council shall, in their discretion, set the millage for said tax for each fiscal year, taking into consideration the proposed budget for that year, together with any other factors which may be appropriate.
(b)
Assessment and fair market value. All property subject to municipal ad valorem taxation shall be assessed at 40 percent of its fair market value. The basis for fair market value shall be 100 percent of the fair market value determined for the property by the county for county ad valorem tax purposes.
(c)
Appeal of assessment. Any taxpayer may appeal from an assessment by the county board of tax assessors to the county board of equalization as to matters of taxability, uniformity of assessment, and value, and the taxpayer or the county board of tax assessors may appeal to the superior court of the county for a decision of the county board of equalization. All such appeals shall be made in the manner provided for in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-1 et seq.
(Code 1981, § 16-1)
Sec. 22-20. - When taxes due and payable.
Ad valorem taxes shall become due and payable on or before December 20 of each year and shall be deemed delinquent if paid after said due date. Tax bills showing the assessed valuations, amount of taxes due, tax due dates, and information as to delinquency dates and penalties shall be sent to all taxpayers a least 30 days prior to the due date, but failure to send a tax bill shall not invalidate any tax. Delinquent taxes shall bear interest at 12 percent per annum from due date.
(Code 1981, § 16-2)
Sec. 22-21. - Failure to pay tax.
The city shall forthwith issue an execution against any person who has defaulted in the payment of any ad valorem tax to be paid. The execution thus issued shall be a lien on all the property of such person, both real and personal, and shall be placed in the hands of the city officer responsible for collection by levy and sale.
Sec. 22-22. - Against whom charged.
Taxes are to be charged against the owner of the property, if known, or against the specific property itself if the owner is not known. Life tenants and those who enjoy the use of the property are chargeable with the tax thereon.
(Code 1981, § 16-4)
Sec. 22-23. - Exempted property.
The following property shall be exempt from ad valorem taxation:
(1)
All public property:
(2)
All places of religious worship and places of burial;
(3)
All buildings used as a college, university, or other seminary of learning.
(Code 1981, § 16-5)
Sec. 22-24. - Municipal tax sales.
(a)
Time, place and manner of sale. The time, place, and manner of the sale of property both real and personal, for taxes due the city shall be the same as that provided by law for sheriffs' sale for state and county taxes.
(b)
Sale by parcels. When not impracticable, all property sold for municipal taxes shall be so offered for sale that the smallest amount that will bring the amount of taxes and costs shall alone be sold.
(c)
Purchase by city. The city clerk shall attend all sales of property for taxes due the city, and in the event no one person bids for the property put up to be sold as much as the tax due thereon, the clerk shall place a bid for such property for the city, and if the bid is accepted, take custody of the deed for the city. No property so purchased by the city shall ever be sold by the city except at a public sale thereof to the highest bidder.
(d)
Redemption of property sold for taxes. Any person whose property is sold in obedience to an execution issued for the collection of municipal taxes shall have such rights of redemption of said property as are set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-3-40 et seq. and any other provisions of law not inconsistent therewith.
(Code 1981, § 16-6)
Sec. 22-25. - Professional occupation tax.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-6(b) there is hereby set and levied upon each person practicing one of the professions enumerated in subsection (1) of this section and who maintains his principal office within the corporate limits of the city, a professional occupation tax. The occupation tax, if any, shall be established by resolution by the city council from time to time. In the event an individual is engaged in the practice of more than one profession, such individual shall be required to pay a professional occupation tax for each of the professions, except that the tax for the second and any succeeding profession shall be assessed at 50 percent of the tax otherwise due.
(1)
Professions subject to tax. The professional occupation tax herein levied shall be levied and assessed upon the occupations and professions allowed under the laws of the state as established by resolution of the city council from time to time and made available for inspection in the office of the city clerk.
(2)
Duty of register profession. Each person upon whom a professional occupation tax is levied by this section shall register said profession with the city clerk and pay said tax on February 1 or within 20 days subsequent to the date that such person commences practice within the city of a profession enumerated in subsection (1) of this section, whichever date should occur later.
(3)
Penalty for failure to make timely payment. Any person subject to the tax imposed by this section who fails to pay the professional occupation tax on or before the due date, as set forth in subsection (2) of this section, shall be subject to a penalty of 20 percent of the professional occupation tax assessed.
(Code 1981, § 16-7)
Sec. 22-26. - Issuance of tax certificate.
Upon the payment of the taxes assessed in this article, it shall be the duty of the city clerk to issue to each person a business or occupational tax certificate.
(Code 1981, § 6-5)
Sec. 22-27. - Certificate to be displayed.
All persons shall exhibit and display the certificate in some conspicuous place in their business establishment. Any transient or non-resident person, firm, or corporation doing business with the city shall carry such certificate either upon his person or on any vehicle or other conveyance which is used in such business, and such person shall exhibit the same to any authorized enforcement officer of the city when requested to do so.
(Code 1981, § 6-6)
Sec. 22-28. - Change of address.
Any person moving from one location to another shall notify the city clerk of such move and the new address in writing, no later than five days after moving. The same business tax certificate will be valid at the new location except those dealing with alcoholic beverages.
(Code 1981, § 6-7)
Sec. 22-29. - Change of ownership.
No business tax certificate may be transferred from one person to another. Additions to or deletions from the ownership of the business, which do not affect the liability and the principal ownership of a business for which the certificate is issued, may be made without cancelling the old business or occupational tax certificates and applying for a new certificate. Whenever any person shall lease, operate, manage or control the business franchise or property of other persons, they shall pay a separate business tax certificate for each business.
(Code 1981, § 6-8)
Sec. 22-30. - Gross direct premiums tax imposed on life insurers.
There is hereby set and levied upon each company authorized to write life insurance and which is doing business within the municipal corporate limits a tax equal to one percent of the annual gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year from policies insuring persons residing within the corporate limits of the municipality. The term "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall have the same meaning as that used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The tax levied by this section is in addition to any license fee imposed by section 14-35.
Sec. 22-31. - Gross premium tax, all other insurers.
In accordance with the authority granted by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2 there is hereby levied an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer, other than an insurer transacting business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(1) in an amount equal to 2½ percent of the gross direct premiums received in the preceding calendar year. Gross direct premiums, as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as defined in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax used in this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by section 14-35.
Sec. 22-32. - Administrative provisions.
(a)
Due date and required report. The gross direct premiums tax referred to in sections 22-30 and 22-31 shall be due and payable on January 1 in each calendar year and delinquent if not received within 45 days of said due date. Payment shall be accompanied by a report, furnished by the city clerk and sent with the tax notice described herein, showing the names and addresses of the agents representing the insurance company in the city, the classes of insurance written and the premiums received for each class. Such report shall be made over affidavit of an officer of such company and filed with the city clerk at the time of paying the license and premium tax. It shall be a violation of this Code for any person, firm, corporation or their agents to knowingly give false or incomplete information on any such report.
(b)
Confidentiality of information. All reports required to be filed under this section shall be confidential and the information contained therein shall be used solely by the officers of the city responsible for the administration of this section.
(Code 1981, § 16-9)
Sec. 22-33. - Public utility franchise tax; rate of levy.
There is hereby set and levied on each electric light and power company a franchise tax of four percent of the annual gross revenue received from residential, commercial, and industrial sales within the city and a three percent franchise tax on recurring local revenues received by such telephone company making use of the streets, alleys, or other public ways or places of the city.
(Code 1981, § 16-10)
Sec. 22-34. - Due date and required report.
The public utility franchise tax noted above shall be paid on the day specified in the franchise agreement between the city and such public utility, and payment of said franchise tax shall be accompanied by a report showing the volume of gross sales by service classification.
(Code 1981, § 16-11)
Secs. 22-35—22-52. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ANNUAL BUDGET

Sec. 22-53. - Fiscal year.
The city shall operate on a fiscal year which shall begin on July 1 and end on June 30.
(Code 1981, § 16-15)
Sec. 22-54. - Procedures for adoption of budget.
The municipal budget shall be introduced, approved, amended and adopted by resolution passed by not less than a majority of the full membership of the city council.
(1)
Introduction and approval. The municipal budget shall be introduced in writing by the mayor and initially approved no later than June 1 of the fiscal year.
(2)
Amendment. The city council may, in its discretion, amend the proposed municipal budget, prior to its adoption by ordinance, by a vote of not less than a majority of the full membership of the city council.
(3)
Adoption. The municipal budget shall be adopted not later than 30 days into the new fiscal year. Upon adoption, the budget shall constitute an appropriation for the purposes stated therein and an authorization of the amount to be raised by taxation for the purposes of the city.
(Code 1981, § 16-16)
Sec. 22-55. - Budget message.
When introduced to the city council for approval the municipal budget shall be accompanied by a budget message which shall explain the budget both in fiscal terms and in terms of the work programs. The budget message shall outline the proposed financial policies of the city for the ensuing fiscal year, describe the important features of the budget, indicate any major changes from the current year in financial policies, expenditures and revenues together with the reason for each change, summarize the city's debt position and include such other material as will provide a complete synopsis of the financial condition of the city.
(Code 1981, § 16-17)
Sec. 22-56. - Form and content of budget.
(a)
The municipal budget shall be prefaced by a clear general summary of its contents and shall show in detail all estimated income, indicating the proposed property tax levy, and all proposed expenditures for the ensuing fiscal year. It shall be so arranged as to show comparative figures for actual and estimated income and expenditures of the current fiscal year and actual income and expenditures of the preceding fiscal year. Separate items shall be included for at least the following:
(1)
Administration, operation and maintenance expenses of each department or office of the city, including a breakdown for salaries and wages for each such unit;
(2)
Interest and debt redemption charges;
(3)
Proposed capital expenditures, detailed by departments and offices when practicable;
(4)
Cash deficits of the preceding year;
(5)
Contingent expenses in an amount not more than three percent of the total amount of administration, operation and maintenance expenses;
(6)
Such reserves as may be deemed advisable by the city council.
(b)
The total of proposed expenditures shall not exceed the total of anticipated revenue.
(Code 1981, § 16-18)
Sec. 22-57. - Capital program.
A five-year capital program may be submitted to the city council at the same time that the budget and budget message are introduced for approval. Such capital program shall include:
(1)
A clear general summary of its contents:
(2)
A list of all capital improvements which are proposed to be undertaken for the five fiscal years next ensuing, with appropriate supporting information as to the necessity for such improvements;
(3)
Cost estimates, method of financing and recommended time schedules for each such improvement; and
(4)
The estimated annual cost of operating and maintaining the facilities to be constructed or acquired.
The above information may be revised and extended each year with regard to capital improvements still pending or in the process of construction or acquisition.
(Code 1981, § 16-19)
Sec. 22-58. - Transfer of appropriations.
The mayor may at any time during the fiscal year transfer part or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance among programs within a department or office, and the city council may by ordinance transfer part or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance from one department or office to another, except that no appropriation for debt service or capital improvements may be reduced or transferred during any fiscal year, and under no circumstances may the expenditures exceed the total of the budget.
(Code 1981, § 16-20)
Sec. 22-59. - Lapse of appropriations.
Every appropriation, except an appropriation for a capital expenditure, shall lapse at the close of the next succeeding year to the extent that it has not been expended or encumbered. An appropriation for a capital expenditure shall continue in force until the purpose for which it was made has been accomplished or abandoned if three years pass without any disbursement from or encumbrance of the appropriation.
(Code 1981, § 16-22)
