Chapter 25 - TRAFFIC[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Jurisdiction of municipal courts over misdemeanor traffic offenses, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-21(a); power of local authorities generally, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 25-1. - Authority of mayor and council to regulate traffic.
The authority to make and enforce all rules and regulations governing traffic and the use of the streets of the city by vehicles and pedestrians, shall be vested in the mayor and council, and the mayor and council shall have full power to designate directions of traffic, time limits, and locations for parking, reservation of parking places, maximum and minimum speeds insofar as same shall not conflict with the laws of the state, to establish through streets, truck routes, and stop crossings, and to install such street signs and indicators and markings as shall be necessary or advisable for the operation and enforcement of such rules and regulations. No such rule or regulation shall be effective unless and until appropriate signs, indicators or markings are installed.
(Code 1981, § 18-1)
Sec. 25-2. - Uniform rules of the road; adoption by reference.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 40-6-372, the provisions of chapter 6 of title 40 of the O.C.G.A., known as the Uniform Rules of the Road, and the definitions set out in O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1, save and except such portions as are hereafter deleted, modified, or amended, are hereby adopted as and for the traffic regulations of the city with like effect as if recited herein.
(Code 1981, § 18-2)
Sec. 25-3. - Permits for parades and processions.
No funeral, procession, or parade containing 50 or more persons or ten or more vehicles, excepting the Armed Forces of the United States, the military forces of this state, and the forces of the police and fire department, shall occupy, march, or proceed along any street except in accordance with a permit issued by the city clerk with the approval of the mayor and council and such other regulations as are set forth in this Code which may apply.
(Code 1981, § 18-3)
Sec. 25-4. - Funeral processions to be identified.
A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by having the headlights of each vehicle turned on. Said funeral, unless under the supervision and control of a law enforcement agency, shall allow sufficient space between each vehicle or combination of vehicles in the procession to enable any other vehicle to enter and occupy such space without danger.
(Code 1981, § 18-4)
Secs. 25-5—25-26. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES

Sec. 25-27. - Authority to place, maintain, etc.—Electric traffic control devices.
As an aid in facilitating the movement of traffic on the streets of the city and in reducing accidents, the police department is hereby authorized and directed to place and maintain electric traffic-control devices and signals at such locations as may be designated from time to time by resolutions of the mayor and council.
(Code 1981, § 18-8)
Sec. 25-28. - Same—Other traffic control devices.
The police department shall place and maintain, other than electrically operated, traffic control devices when and as required under this chapter and other traffic ordinances of the city to make effective the provisions of this chapter and such ordinances, and, with the approval of the mayor and council, may place and maintain such additional traffic control devices as he may deem necessary to regulate traffic under this chapter and other traffic ordinances of the city or under state law, or to guide or warn traffic.
(Code 1981, § 18-9)
Secs. 25-29—25-59. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OPERATION AND PARKING VEHICLES

Sec. 25-60. - Speed restrictions.
(a)
No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
(b)
Where no special hazard exists, the following speeds shall be lawful, but any speed in excess of such a limit shall be prima facie evidence that the speed is not reasonable or prudent and is unlawful:
(1)
Fifteen miles per hour in passing hospitals and in passing schools while schools are in session and in passing churches during the hours of service therein.
(2)
Twenty-five miles per hour within the corporate limits, except as herein otherwise provided.
(3)
Thirty-five miles per hour within the zones designated, and when signs are posted at either end of a speed zone.
(4)
Forty-five miles per hour within the zones designated, and when signs are posted at either end of a speed zone.
(c)
The fact that the speed of a vehicle is lower than the foregoing prima facie limits shall not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching a hill crest, when travelling upon any narrow or winding roadway, or when a special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions, and speed shall be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle, or other conveyance on or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
(Code 1981, § 18-14)
Sec. 25-61. - Parking lines angle, and parallel parking.
On streets where white lines are shown for guidance, parking must conform with such lines. The driver must park his vehicle entirely within the boundaries designated by such lines. No person shall park and leave unattended a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of traffic, and with the curb-side wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the edge of the roadway, except upon those streets which have been marked or signed for angle parking and on such streets vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the edge of the roadway indicated by such marks or signs.
(Code 1981, § 18-15)
Sec. 25-62. - Private parking of tractor trailers on road right-of-way.
(a)
Except in an emergency situation or circumstance, no tractor trailer, whether coupled or separate, shall be parked upon the road right-of-way in any residential area in the city, or along U.S. Highway 280, State Highway 195, and State Highway 118 within the city limits, except as otherwise provided in this article. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a tractor trailer may park upon a road right-of-way in a residential area of the city solely for the purpose of loading and unloading furniture, appliances, and other household goods in connection with the delivery of such items to a residential location or in connection with the moving of such items from a residential dwelling, but in such event, such tractor trailer may not be parked on such road right-of-way for more than eight total hours.
(b)
Except in an emergency situation or circumstance, no tractor trailer, whether coupled or separate, shall be parked on a road right-of-way in the downtown commercial area of the city for more than two hours during any calendar day (24-hour period of time).
(c)
A violation of this section shall, upon conviction, be punished in accordance with section 1-13.
(Ord. of 1-19-1999(03); Ord. of 4-17-2000)
Secs. 25-63—25-82. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - OPERATION OF MOTORIZED CARTS UPON THE STREETS OF THE CITY

Sec. 25-83. - Findings; definitions.
(a)
The governing body of the city finds that the streets located within the boundaries of the city are designed and constructed so as to safely permit their use by operators of motorized carts, except as otherwise provided in this article.
(b)
For purposes of this article, the following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the following meanings:
Motorized cart means every motor vehicle having no less than three wheels and an unladen weight of 1,300 pounds or less and which cannot operate at more than 20 miles per hour. A motorized cart includes a golf cart powered by either gasoline or electricity.
(Ord. of 8-27-2010, § 1)
Sec. 25-84. - Registration; transfer requirements.
(a)
It shall be the duty of every owner of an electric or gasoline powered motorized cart that is to be operated over the streets of the city to register the vehicle with the city and to pay the registration fee as provided in subsection (b) of this section. A numerical decal shall be issued to the owner upon registration, and such decal shall be affixed permanently to the cart in a location visible from outside the cart, such as on a bumper or a window. A record of the cart number, along with the name and address of the owner, shall be maintained by the city clerk's office. Failure to pay the registration fee and to have a current registration decal on a motorized cart shall be a violation of this section.
(b)
The owner of a motorized cart who intends to drive said motorized cart on the streets of the city shall pay a one-time registration fee of $15.00 prior to such motorized cart being driven on the streets of the city. Such registration fee shall be paid to the city clerk prior to the cart being driven upon the streets of the city. The registration fee and the registration decal shall be valid until the cart is sold or the license is destroyed. In the event that the required registration fee is not paid at the time required under this article, the owner shall not be authorized to drive the motorized cart on the streets of the city until such registration fee, plus any fines and penalties, if applicable, are paid in full.
(c)
No motorized cart shall be operated upon the streets of the city unless it is legally registered in accord with this article.
(Ord. of 8-27-2010, § 2)
Sec. 25-85. - Operation regulations.
(a)
Those persons who are 16 years of age and older and who possess a valid driver's license may drive a motorized cart on the streets of the city unless such person has had his license to operate a motor vehicle suspended or revoked by the state which issued said license, in which case such person shall not be permitted such motorized cart on the streets within the city during the time of suspension or revocation.
(b)
All operators shall abide by all traffic regulations applicable to vehicular traffic when using the streets of the city.
(c)
Motorized carts shall not be operated on sidewalks at any time.
(d)
Motorized carts may be operated on the streets of the city only during daylight hours unless such vehicles are equipped with functional headlights and taillights.
(e)
No motorized cart shall be permitted to operate over, along, or across U.S. Highway 280 within the boundaries of the city; provided, however, that motorized carts may cross U.S. Highway 280 and any other state or federal highway at crossings or intersections designated for that purpose by the state department of transportation.
(f)
No motorized cart shall be permitted to operate on any street in the city on which the posted speed limit exceeds 35 miles per hour. However, except as provided above, motorized carts shall be permitted to cross over streets of which the posted speed limit exceeds 35 miles per hour.
(g)
All laws relative to alcohol and its use, including open container laws, which apply to vehicular traffic on the streets of the city shall also apply to the use of motorized carts on the streets of the city.
(h)
All operators and passengers must remain seated at all times during the operation of the motorized cart. No person may sit on the operator's lap during the operation of a motorized cart.
(i)
Any person who violates the provisions of this article shall be subject to prosecution for such violation in the municipal court of the city as a municipal violation. Any such person who pleads guilty, pleads nolo contendere, or is found guilty for violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to punishment in accordance with section 1-13.
(Ord. of 8-27-2010, § 3)
