Chapter 6 - BUILDING CODES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Construction standards generally, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Construction codes; adoption by reference.
(a)
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing standards and procedures affecting the design, erection and construction of buildings and housing, the maintenance and repair of plumbing pipes, fittings, and other apparatus, the installation of electric wiring and other similar apparatus, the installation of gas systems and gas materials, the following codes by reference as if the same were fully set out at length herein save and except such portions as are hereafter deleted, modified, or amended.
(b)
Pursuant to and in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25, all of the codes referenced in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20(9)(B)(i), as modified and amended pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20(9)(B)(ii), are hereby adopted by reference.
(c)
The office of code enforcement for the city shall maintain current and up-to-date copies of such codes on file the code enforcement office located in the county courthouse and such codes shall be available for inspection and review by the public during regular business hours of the office of code enforcement. Such codes are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions of such codes shall be controlling within the city.
(d)
The following shall be applicable to such codes:
(1)
Pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement with the county, said codes shall be enforced by the office of code enforcement and, where applicable, the chief of the city fire department, or his designee.
(2)
Any reference to the term "board of adjustments and appeals" in said codes shall mean the city planning and zoning commission which shall have the same powers, duties and authority given to the board of adjustments and appeals in said incorporated codes.
(3)
In hearing and deciding appeals from the decision of the office of code enforcement or the chief of the fire department made pursuant to their authority under the state minimum codes, the rules of procedure of the adopted codes shall apply; provided, however, that the rules for appointment and terms of office for the appeals board in said adopted codes shall not be applicable to the planning and zoning commission.
(e)
Any person charged with the violation of any provision of any of such codes, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in the general penalty section of chapter 1.
(f)
Wherever the term "inspector" is used in the above minimum construction codes, it shall be deemed to mean the person so designated by the mayor and council to administer and enforce the provisions of any such code.
(g)
Wherever the term "corporate counsel" shall appear in any of the above minimum construction codes, it shall be deemed to mean the attorney of the city.
(h)
Wherever the term "municipality" is used in any of the above minimum construction codes it shall be deemed to mean the city.
(Code 1981, § 5-1)
State Law reference— Construction standards generally, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 et seq.
Sec. 6-2. - Penalties.
Any person or firm who shall violate any of the provisions of the above minimum construction codes, or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made by the governing body of said city, shall upon conviction for each such failure, violation, or noncompliance, be punished as provided for in section 1-13.
(Code 1981, § 5-2)
Secs. 6-3—6-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM

Sec. 6-23. - Uniform numbering system.
A uniform system of numbering properties and buildings as described by a map and material filed in the office of the city clerk is hereby adopted. The map and system description as filed is hereby adopted and made a part of this article.
(1)
All properties, lots and parcels of land within the corporate limits of the city shall hereafter be identified by reference to the uniform numbering system adopted herein.
(2)
Each principal building shall bear the number assigned to it by the administrator of the system as herein provided and where more than one business or family dwelling unit occupies a single structure shall bear, in addition to the basic number assigned to the structure, the supplementary numerals or letters assigned to them.
(3)
Numerals and letters indicating the official property number designation shall be posted at the entrance for which the designated number has been assigned in such a manner as to provide an unobstructed sighting from the street on which the building is located.
(4)
No person, agency or business shall adopt, assign, display or cite any number other than that assigned as provided herein for the purpose of property identification or for the purpose of designating the location of property.
(Ord. of 5-13-1996, § 1)
Sec. 6-24. - Numbering system.
(a)
The numbering system starts with Bailey Avenue and Allen Street with numbers increasing as the distance from the divider street increases.
(b)
Property on streets that do not intersect with the divider streets are to be assigned numbers as if the street did intersect with a divider street.
(c)
Numbers are to be assigned to or reserved for each 50 feet of distance.
(d)
Odd numbers are to be assigned to property on south and west sides of streets and even numbers assigned to property on the east and north sides of the streets.
(Ord. of 5-13-1996, § 3)
Sec. 6-25. - Administration.
(a)
The city shall be responsible for implementing and maintaining the numbering system as adopted by this article including the supplementary documents referred to herein.
(b)
The city or its designee shall assign and maintain a record of all property numbers for the city.
(c)
The city or its designee may make available to public agencies such as those responsible for emergency services, tax officials, and post office such part of the records of property number assignments as may be required to accomplish a public purpose.
(d)
The city shall issue without charge one set of numerals for each property number assigned including any future legally accomplished subdivision such as the establishment of apartments. The maintenance of the numbers is the responsibility of the property owner except that at the discretion of the city, numerals may be replaced if they have been destroyed by an act of God.
(Ord. of 5-13-1996, § 4)
