Chapter 19 - PUBLIC WASTE DISPOSAL[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local, multijurisdictional and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 19-1. - Purpose; definitions.
The purpose of the rules and regulations contained in this chapter is to provide for the protection of the public health by prescribing the manner of storage, collection, transportation and disposal of waste generated within the corporate limits of the city. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Garbage means putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
Hazardous waste means material in a solid or semi-solid state resulting from the manufacture or use of pesticides or drugs (other than normal household use), pathological wastes, chemical wastes, flammable or explosive materials, and similar waste material in a solid or semi-solid state, that the city may consider a likely hazard to the public health or safety, except radioactive waste materials, as provided in state law, including any rules and regulations provided thereunder.
Industrial waste orindustrial solid waste means the solid waste materials from factories, processing plants and manufacturing enterprises, and includes food processing wastes, meat and poultry processing waste, condemned food, ashes and cinders from power plants, agriculture products waste, land clearance waste and similar waste.
Open dump means a disposal site at which solid waste from one or more sources is consolidated and left to decompose, burn or to otherwise create environmental pollution or nuisance.
Premises means land, buildings or other structures, vehicles, water craft, or parts thereof, upon or in which solid waste is stored.
Putrescible waste means waste that is capable of being decomposed by microorganisms. The term "putrescible waste" includes kitchen wastes, manure, offal, hatchery and poultry wastes, and garbage.
Reclamation means a controlled method of sorting and storing solid wastes for future use in accordance with an approved plan.
Rubbish means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and non-combustible waste not subject to rapid decomposition derived from places of residence, commercial areas and institutions and shall include paper, rags, plastic, cartons, boxes, tree and yard trimmings, furniture, appliances, metals, minerals, cans, bottles, glass, crockery, excelsior, bedding, rubber, discarded clothing and similar materials.
Sanitary landfilling means a method of disposing of putrescible waste and/or hazardous waste on land by placing an earth cover thereon.
Scavenge means uncontrolled picking from discarded solid waste materials.
Solid waste means putrescible and non-putrescible waste, except human body waste, and shall include garbage, rubbish, paper cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture, appliances, metals, tin cans, glass, crockery, dunnage, ashes, street refuse, dead animals, waste materials generated in industrial operations, residue incineration, food processing wastes, demolition wastes, construction wastes, and any other wastes in a solid or semi-solid state, not otherwise defined in this article.
Waste means unwanted or discarded material, except human body waste.
(Code 1981, § 15-1)
Sec. 19-2. - Garbage containers.
No person shall dispose of any solid waste for collection or other purposes, except in the proper containers as provided by the governing body or as otherwise provided for in this Code.
(Code 1981, § 15-2)
Sec. 19-3. - Collection by city.
(a)
All solid waste, except as hereinafter provided, generated or accumulated in the areas served by the city shall be collected, transported and disposed of by the city through its designated agents, employees or contract representatives. No other person shall collect, transport or dispose of any solid waste generated or accumulated in the city except as provided for in this chapter.
(b)
Every residential household within the city boundaries shall be furnished with a garbage container for the disposition and collection of solid waste. Each residential household shall pay a monthly fee as determined from time to time by resolution of the city council. No person shall dispose of any solid waste for collection or other purposes, except in the proper garbage containers as provided by the governing body, or as otherwise provided for in this Code.
(c)
Should any person liable for the payment of the monthly fees set out in subsection (b) of this section fail to pay the same within ten days after having been billed therefore, the city clerk shall be authorized to take any or all of the following steps in order to collect such bill:
(1)
Discontinue garbage collection service;
(2)
Discontinue all other utility services provided to the delinquent person at such location;
(3)
Bring a civil action against such person in the magistrate court of the county under the rules of procedure of that court;
(4)
Issue a citation, returnable to the municipal court, for violation of this chapter and, upon conviction thereof, such person may be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(d)
In the event that a residential household subject to the solid waste collection fee imposed in subsection (b) of this section is occupied by a tenant or lessee of the owner thereof, then the person liable for the payment of such garbage collection fee shall be deemed to be the same person liable for the water furnished to the premises by the city, unless the owner and the tenant or lessee notify the city clerk, in writing, that some other person (i.e., a person who is not responsible for the water bill at such premises) is responsible for the payment of such garbage collection fees.
(Code 1981, § 15-3; Ord. of 1-19-1999(04))
Sec. 19-4. - Limitations.
Industrial waste, any and all dead animals, or waste from construction, demolition, landscaping or processing operations will not be collected, transported or disposed of by the city but such waste collection, transportation and disposal shall be by the owners and/or generators of such waste or animals.
(Code 1981, § 15-4)
Sec. 19-5. - Preparation and storage of garbage prior to collection.
(a)
All garbage and rubbish shall be drained of excess liquid before being placed for collection. All garbage and rubbish shall be placed in the container furnished by the city to each household and business. No limbs or plant cuttings shall be placed in a container. Any garbage or rubbish too large to be placed in the container shall be placed in plastic bags and sealed. Containers shall not be abused, and upon the abuse of a container so as to render the same unusable, the user shall be required to replace the same at his expense. No limbs or cuttings shall be collected from the streets or curbs by the city.
(b)
No person shall place any solid waste in any stream, lake, or other body of water. Any unauthorized accumulation of solid waste on any premises is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. Failure to remove any existing accumulation of solid waste within such reasonable time as may be fixed by written notice of the mayor and council shall be deemed a violation of these regulations.
(c)
Solid waste to be collected by the city or its representative shall be put in the container furnished by the city for collection on the curb or beside the roadway in front of the residence or establishment owning the same, or if the property abuts on an alley, at the rear of the property, but not in the gutter nor in the street or alley in such manner as to interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
(Code 1981, § 15-5)
Sec. 19-6. - Scavenging of containers.
No person other than the owner thereof, or an agent or employee of the city, or any employee of a person holding a contract with the city for collection of solid waste shall interfere with any container placed for the purpose of storing solid waste pending collection, or remove or take any of the contents thereof, or remove any such container from the location where same shall have been placed by the owner thereof.
(Code 1981, § 15-6)
Sec. 19-7. - Solid waste classified for disposal.
Only the following classes of solid waste shall be acceptable for collection by the city:
(1)
Acceptable solid waste:
a.
Garbage, as defined in section 19-1;
b.
Ashes, the residue from burning of combustible materials for fuel;
c.
Rubbish, as defined in section 19-1;
(2)
Unacceptable solid waste. The following classes of solid waste shall not be acceptable for collection by the city:
a.
Building waste, large quantities of materials resulting from the construction or demolition of building, such as plaster, mortar, broken masonry, scrap lumber, roofing or similar materials.
b.
Hazardous waste, as defined in section 19-1, and any and all dead animals.
c.
Industrial solid waste, as defined in section 19-1.
(Code 1981, § 15-7)
Sec. 19-8. - Unsanitary pits prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying or in any way controlling lots within the city to dig or maintain at any place on any lot, any pit, well or other place into which shall be conducted and deposited by sewers, pipes, drains or otherwise, feculent matter, waste or foul water from any water closet, privy, kitchen or other place.
(Code 1981, § 15-8)
Sec. 19-9. - Private sewage disposal.
Where a public sanitary sewer is not available within the city, the building, house or property shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system consisting of a septic tank of approved construction which shall comply with the following provisions:
(1)
Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the city clerk. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the municipality, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the city. A permit and the inspection fee as determined from time to time by the county health department shall be paid to the municipality at the time the application is filed.
(2)
A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the governing authority or their duly appointed representative, who shall be allowed to inspect the work at any state of construction. The applicant for the permit shall notify the city clerk when the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of notice by said clerk.
(3)
The type, capacities, location and layout of the private sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the department of natural resources of the state. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than 20,000 square feet. No septic tank shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(4)
Any private sewage disposal system shall be approved by the county health department before being placed in operation.
(Code 1981, § 15-9)
Sec. 19-10. - Penalty.
Any person who shall violate the provisions of this chapter shall upon conviction be punished as provided for in section 1-13.
(Code 1981, § 15-10)
Secs. 19-11—19-38. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LITTER CONTROL

Sec. 19-39. - Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "City of Leslie Litter Control Ordinance."
(Ord. of 12-15-2003, § 1)
Sec. 19-40. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Garbage means putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation of, and cooking of or consumption of food.
Litter means garbage, rubbish, and refuse as defined in this section, stones, bricks, and other debris and all other waste material which, if thrown or deposited as prohibited in this article, tends to create a danger to the public health, safety, and welfare.
Public or private property means the right of way of any road or highway within the city limits, any park, playground, building, refuge or conservation or recreational area, residential or farm properties, timberlands, or forests within the corporate limits of the city.
Public receptacle means a receptacle or container placed by the city for use in depositing litter.
Refuse means all putrescible and non-putrescible solid waste, except body waste, including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, and solid market and industrial waste.
Rubbish means non-putrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and non-combustible waste, such as paper, wrapping, cigarettes, cardboard, cans, food, glass, bedding, crockery, and similar materials.
(Ord. of 12-15-2003, § 2)
Sec. 19-41. - Littering—Public property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, drop, deposit, or leave any litter, refuse, rubbish, or garbage upon any public property, street, sidewalk, public park, or other public place within the city.
(Ord. of 12-15-2003, § 3)
Sec. 19-42. - Same—Private property.
No person shall throw or deposit litter, refuse, rubbish, or garbage on any private property within the city, whether owned by such person or not, except that the owner or person in control of private property may deposit such litter, refuse, rubbish, and garbage in a container provided by the city for the disposal of such litter, refuse, rubbish, and garbage.
(Ord. of 12-15-2003, § 4)
Sec. 19-43. - Placement of litter.
Placing litter, refuse, rubbish, and garbage in either a public receptacle or a private container provided by the city shall be done in such a manner so as to prevent it from being carried away or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other public place or upon private property. Wooden and cardboard boxes and containers shall be disassembled or collapsed prior to being placed in such receptacles or containers, and all litter placed therein shall be reasonably compressed by the person placing the same in the receptacle or container. Any person opening the receptacle or container top or door shall securely close the same prior to leaving the receptacle or container after a deposit has been made therein.
(Ord. of 12-15-2003, § 5)
Sec. 19-44. - Littering from motor vehicle.
Whenever litter, refuse, rubbish, or garbage is thrown, dumped, deposited, or dropped from any motor vehicle or similar conveyance in violation of this article, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of the conveyance has violated this article.
(Ord. of 12-15-2003, § 6)
Sec. 19-45. - Determination of ownership.
Whenever any litter, refuse, rubbish, or garbage which is thrown, dumped, deposited, or left on public or private property in violation of this article is discovered to contain any article, including, but not limited to, letters, bills, publications, or other writings which display the name of a person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the article belongs or belonged to such person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person has violated this article.
(Ord. of 12-15-2003, § 7)
Sec. 19-46. - Enforcement.
The city police department, and the officers thereof, are authorized, empowered, and directed to enforce this article.
(Ord. of 12-15-2003, § 8)
Sec. 19-47. - Penalty.
Any person who violates this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be punished in accordance with section 1-13 in the discretion of the judge of the municipal court.
(Ord. of 12-15-2003, § 9)
