Chapter 3 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.; authority to adopt rules and regulations relating to manufacture, sale and distribution of distilled spirits, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-49.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Sale of alcoholic beverages on Sundays and election days, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20; furnishing alcoholic beverages to intoxicated persons, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-22; furnishing to and purchase of alcoholic beverages by minors/proper identification, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23.

Sec. 3-1. - License required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or possess for the purpose of sale, any alcoholic beverages where such person does not have a license from the city to sell or possess for sale such beverages.
(Code 1981, § 3-1)
Sec. 3-2. - Discretion of the city.
The governing body of the city, in their discretion, may consider extenuating circumstances which may reflect favorably or unfavorably on the applicant, application, or the proposed location business concerning the sale of alcoholic beverages, including, but not limited to:
(1)
Compliance with and effectuation of state law;
(2)
Prevention and control of the sale of alcoholic beverages by unfit persons;
(3)
The protection of schools, homes, churches, parks, and other institutions; and
(4)
Protection of public health, safety and welfare.
If in their judgment circumstances are such that the granting of said alcoholic beverage license would not be in the best interest of the general public, such circumstances may be grounds for denying the application.
(Code 1981, § 3-2)
Sec. 3-3. - Type of sale.
Alcoholic beverages sold in the city shall be off premises consumption only, excluding cafes and establishments having a club license for the retail sale of malt beverages.
(Code 1981, § 3-3)
Sec. 3-4. - Selling to minors, etc., prohibited.
No person shall knowingly, directly or through another person, furnish, cause to be furnished or permit any such person's employ to furnish any alcoholic beverage to any person under 21 years of age, or sell, barter, exchange, give, provide or furnish any alcoholic beverage to any person who is in a state of noticeable intoxication.
(Code 1981, § 3-4)
Sec. 3-5. - Employing minors.
No person under 18 years of age shall be employed in any capacity in any place of business to dispense, serve, sell, or take orders for any alcoholic beverages. This section shall not prohibit persons under 18 years of age who are employed in supermarkets, convenience stores, breweries, or drugstores from selling or handling alcoholic beverages which are sold for consumption off the premises.
(Code 1981, § 3-5)
State Law reference— Persons under 18 not allowed to serve, sell or take orders for alcoholic beverages, exceptions, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-24.
Sec. 3-6. - Churches and schools.
No retail alcoholic beverage license shall be granted to any person unless the entire business premises of the proposed location is situated beyond 100 yards from the property line of any church and beyond 200 yards from the property line of any school ground or college campus, the same to be measured by way of the nearest traveled road, street, or highway.
(Code 1981, § 3-6)
Sec. 3-7. - Hours of operation.
No retailer shall be in his place of business, or open his place of business, or furnish, sell or offer for sale any alcoholic beverage at any of the following times:
(1)
At any time on Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day;
(2)
At any time in violation of a local ordinance or regulation or of a special order of the governing authority; or
(3)
On any day before 7:00 a.m. or after 12:00 midnight.
(Code 1981, § 3-7)
Sec. 3-8. - Sunday sales.
The sale of malt beverages, wine, and distilled spirits on Sundays between the hours of 12:30 a.m. and 11:30 p.m. by licensed package sales retailers is authorized.
(Ord. of 8-19-2013)
Sec. 3-9. - Inspection of business premises authorized.
The business premises of the holder of a retail license for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall be open to inspection at all times during operation by officers or officials of the city authorized to conduct such inspections.
(Code 1981, § 3-8)
Sec. 3-10. - License to be displayed.
Licenses under this chapter shall be displayed prominently at all times on the premises for which said license is issued.
(Code 1981, § 3-9)
Sec. 3-11. - Licensed location.
Any business operated under the terms of this chapter must be conducted on the location specified in the license and may not be moved to any other location.
(Code 1981, § 3-10)
Sec. 3-12. - Transfer of license.
No license issued under the terms of this chapter shall be transferable, under any condition whatsoever, and all operations of businesses licensed hereunder shall be directed and controlled by the licensee as the principal party in interest. When the interest of the licensee in the licensed business shall cease, the said license shall be then immediately surrendered to the governing authority.
(Code 1981, § 3-11)
Sec. 3-13. - License revocation.
The mayor and council of the city reserve the right at any time, in their entire discretion, to revoke for cause or suspend for cause any license issued under the terms of this chapter. On receipt of any complaint the mayor and council may require the licensee to show cause why the license issued hereunder should not be revoked, and pending hearing, may temporarily require the licensee to cease doing business under the said license. It shall be prima facie cause for revocation when any licensee shall fall into any category which would bar original issuance of such a license. Any licensee dissatisfied with the action of the mayor and council, revoking or suspending his license, may avail himself of any remedies of law, such as may be available in the premises.
(Code 1981, § 3-12)
Sec. 3-14. - Responsibility for knowledge of ordinance.
All holders of a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall keep a copy of this chapter in their premises and shall instruct any person working there with respect to the terms hereof and each licensee or his agents selling any alcoholic beverage shall at all times be familiar with the terms hereof. The licensee shall be held responsible for any acts of his employees in any violation of this chapter or of the laws of the state or the rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner.
(Code 1981, § 3-13)
Sec. 3-15. - Compliance of licensee to the law.
No person shall engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city without first complying with the rules and regulations set out in this chapter. Any person violating the rules and regulations set out in this chapter shall be subject to revocation of his license and punishment as prescribed by the governing authority. In addition to the rules and regulations hereinabove set out, each licensee doing business in the city under this chapter shall comply with all laws of the state, federal laws, and rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner relating to the sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages in the state, and any violation of same shall subject said licensee to immediate suspension or revocation of his retail license and also shall subject said licensee to criminal prosecution by the proper authority as provided by law and the ordinances of the city.
(Code 1981, § 3-14)
Secs. 3-16—3-33. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MALT BEVERAGES AND WINE

Sec. 3-34. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Club means a private organization organized and operating on a nonprofit basis for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages. Said organization, to qualify as a club hereunder, must have a meeting of its members at least once each quarter and must not operate in an illegal manner or for an illegal purpose.
Container means the can or bottle in which any malt beverage or wine is placed and shall not mean the case or carton in which are packed the said can or bottle.
Retail sale means a sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
(Code 1981, § 3-20)
Sec. 3-35. - Authority to issue licenses.
All applications for a malt beverage or wine retail license shall be presented to the council for approval, and if approved, shall be issued by the city clerk upon the payment of the required fee.
(Code 1981, § 3-21)
Sec. 3-36. - Retail licensee qualifications.
(a)
The retail licensee, selling malt beverages or wine in the city, must be a person of good moral character and a citizen of the United States.
(b)
Licensee shall be of legal age and must have resided continuously within the state for a period of 12 months next preceding the date on which the application is made. Where the applicant is a corporation, which may be a newly formed corporation, all officers and stockholders in such corporation must meet the requirements contained in this section. If the applicant is a partnership, the requirements contained in this subsection must be met by all partners. All retail licensees must remain a resident of the state during tenure of their license.
(c)
The licensee shall not have been convicted within five years of the date of his application of felony, or any violation of this state, or any other state, relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(d)
The licensee shall be responsible for the management and operation of the business for which the license is granted.
(e)
Any misstatement or concealment of facts in the application shall be grounds for revocation of the license issued and shall make the applicant liable to prosecution for perjury under the laws of the state.
(Code 1981, § 3-22)
Sec. 3-37. - Application for retail license.
Applications for a malt beverage or wine retail license shall be made in person to the mayor and council and shall contain the following information:
(1)
The name, age, and address of such person or persons seeking a retail license.
(2)
The citizenship of all persons named on the application and their place of birth.
(Code 1981, § 3-23)
Sec. 3-38. - Retail licenses issued for sale of malt beverages and wine.
Licenses for the retail sale of malt beverages or wine in the city shall be issued to such persons, in such locations and in such manner as may be, from time to time, decided by the mayor and council under the following terms and conditions:
(1)
The retail license fee shall be $100.00 for each club or business selling malt beverages or wine for on-premises consumption and $50.00 for each business or location selling wine and malt beverages on a carry-out basis. No portion of said fee shall be refundable should the license be surrendered or revoked prior to its normal expiration date.
(2)
Recreational facilities frequented by minors, pool rooms, and places where dancing is allowed (except clubs duly licensed) shall not be eligible for a license for the sale of malt beverages or wine.
(3)
Sale of malt beverages or wine shall be on a packaged basis only, and drinking of same on the licensed premises shall be prohibited except for cafes or those establishments having a club license.
(Code 1981, § 3-24)
Sec. 3-39. - Reports required.
Each wholesale dealer selling malt beverages or wine within the city shall file a report by the tenth day of each month showing for the preceding calendar month the exact quantities of malt beverages or wine, by size and type of container, constituting a beginning and ending inventory for the month sold within the city. Each such wholesale dealer shall remit to the city on the tenth day of the month next succeeding the calendar month in which such sales were made, the amount of excise tax due in accordance with this chapter.
(Code 1981, § 3-26)
Sec. 3-40. - Failure to make reports or remittance.
The failure to make a timely report and remittance shall render a wholesale dealer liable for a penalty equal to 20 percent of the total amount due during the first 30-day period following the date such report and remittance were due and a further penalty of ten percent of the amount of such remittance for each successive 30-day period or any portion thereof during which such report and remittance are not filed. The filing of a false or fraudulent report shall render the wholesale dealer making such report liable for a penalty equal to 50 percent of the amount of the remittance which would be required under an accurate and truthful report.
(Code 1981, § 3-27)
Sec. 3-41. - License fees imposed; spirituous liquors.
There is hereby levied upon the manufacture, and upon the sale at wholesale or retail, of alcoholic beverages in the city the following license fees:
EXPAND
Spirituous liquors
Manufacturer or distiller $1,500.00
Wholesale dealer $1,500.00
Retail dealer $1,500.00
    (Ord. of 1-16-2006, § 3.21)
Secs. 3-42—3-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EXCISE TAXES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Authority to impose excise tax on sale of distilled spirits by the drink, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-130; levy of tax on sale of distilled spirits by the package authorized, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-80; imposition of excise tax on malt beverages required, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80; authorization to levy tax on wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-60.

Sec. 3-71. - Malt beverage excise tax.
There is hereby levied and imposed upon all wholesale dealers selling malt beverages within the city, a specific excise tax in the amount of $0.05 per 12-ounce container or proportion thereof of malt beverages sold by each wholesale dealer within the corporate limits of the city as follows:
EXPAND
7 ounces 2.92 cents/container $0.70/case of 24
8 ounces 3.33 cents/container $0.80/case of 24
12 ounces 5.00 cents/container $1.20/case of 24
14 ounces 5.83 cents/container $1.40/case of 24
16 ounces 6.67 cents/container $1.60/case of 24
32 ounces 13.33 cents/container $1.60/case of 12
½ barrel (15½ gallons) $6.00
1 barrel (31 gallons) $12.00
    (Code 1981, § 3-25)
Sec. 3-72. - Wine excise tax imposed.
(a)
There is hereby imposed and levied upon all retail dealers of wine within the city an excise tax on the first sale or use of wine by the package at the rate of $0.22 per liter and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of a liter.
(b)
At the time of delivery of the wine for sale to the retail dealer, the wholesale dealer shall collect from the retail dealer the amount of the taxes the retail dealer is obligated for under this section. The wholesale dealer shall pay the tax collected to the city clerk on or before the 20th day of the month following delivery of the wine to the retail dealer and send an accurate record of all wine sold the previous month with said payment.
(Ord. of 7-18-2013, § 3.42)
Sec. 3-73. - Distilled spirits excise tax imposed.
(a)
There is hereby imposed and levied upon all retail dealers of distilled spirits for sale by the package within the city an excise tax computed at the rate of $0.22 per liter, or a pro rata portion thereof, upon all distilled spirits for sale by the package within the city. No tax is levied upon fortified wine.
(b)
At the time of delivery of distilled spirits for sale by the package, the wholesale dealer shall collect from the retail dealer the amount of the taxes the retail dealer is obligated for under this section, and the wholesale dealer shall pay the tax collected to the city clerk on or before the 20th day of the month following delivery of the distilled spirits for sale by the package and send an accurate record of all distilled spirits sold the previous month with said payment.
(Ord. of 7-18-2013, § 3.43)
