Chapter 38 - UTILITIES AND WATER RESOURCES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Home rule powers of municipality to regulate sewage collection and disposal systems and water treatment systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(6), (7); Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 38-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
County administrator means the individual designated by the board of commissioners as [the] county administrator responsible for the general supervision of all county departments, including the county water system.
Customer means every person who is responsible for contracting (expressly or implicitly) with the county in obtaining, having or using water through the water system. The term "customer" shall also include illicit users of the water or water system.
Department director or director means the person designated by the county as director of the county water system.
Easement means any acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
Grant means any federal or state grant or loan made to the county in connection with the water system, and any bonds issued or other documents executed in connection therewith, and all requirements and conditions imposed upon the county by virtue of the same.
Ordinance means this ordinance, consisting of articles I through IV, as the same may hereafter be supplemented, amended, expanded, or otherwise modified.
User means any person who receives water from the county water system.
Water system or county water system means those tanks, wells, structures, valves, meter boxes, backflow prevention devices, facilities, lines, pipes, equipment, and other improvements owned, in whole or in part, or operated by the county and used in the withdrawal, pumping, storage, testing, treatment, processing, distribution, and delivery of potable water to the public, as said water system presently exists or as it may hereafter be improved, expanded or modified.
(Code 1987, § 13-1; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-2. - Purpose and administration.
(a)
Generally. This chapter regulates the connection to and use of the county water system.
(b)
Administration. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or directed by the county administrator, the department director or his agent shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of the chapter.
(Code 1987, § 13-2; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-3. - Permit required; connection mandated; private irrigation wells.
(a)
No person shall make a connection to or obtain water services from the county water system without first obtaining a permit for the same from the department director or his designee as required by this chapter.
(b)
Subject to those exceptions and limitations set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-60-17.1 and any other applicable state or federal law, the water distribution system of any building constructed after January 1, 2014, in which plumbing fixtures are installed shall be connected to the county water system, if water service from said system is available. Water service shall be deemed available if water service from the county water system is furnished within 200 feet of said building and that the provision of water services thereto is otherwise feasible, as determined by the county administrator; provided, however, that in no event shall this section obligate the county to expand the water system or otherwise extend service to any property not then currently served. Any expansion of the water system or other provision of water therefrom shall be undertaken at the sole and complete discretion of the county.
(c)
Customers shall receive water services exclusively from the water system and no other source without the written consent of the county administrator, except that private wells located on or serving the customer's property may be used for irrigation purposes (and for irrigation purposes only).
(Code 1987, § 13-3; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-4. - Application for connection permit; no false representations.
(a)
The owner of the land upon which a water connection is desired, or the owner's authorized agent, shall make application on a form furnished by the county. The permit application shall be supplemented by the owner's drawings, plans, specifications or other such information which, in the judgment of the department director, is considered to be pertinent to the desired connection.
(b)
All costs and expenses incidental to connection to the water system shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the county against any loss or damage to the county water system that may be directly or indirectly occasioned by the connection.
(c)
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any user to knowingly make any false statements, representations or certifications in any application, record, report, plan or other documentation filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter.
(Code 1987, § 13-4; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-5. - Feasibility of providing water service.
Water service may be provided from the county water system only following:
(1)
Submission of a completed application, as well as all supporting documentation requested by the department director;
(2)
Compliance with the provisions of this chapter, including, without limitation, the payment of all required fees and charges;
(3)
Appropriate connection to the county water system and installation of a water meter as required by this chapter; and
(4)
Determination by the county administrator that the requested provision of water services is feasible and consistent with sound water system operation. The owner of the property requesting water service shall submit plans, drawings, surveys, and other information as requested by the department director to assist the department director in making his determination under this section.
(Code 1987, § 13-5; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-6. - Meter installation; location of connection; compliance with codes.
(a)
The consumption of all water furnished by the county water system shall be measured by water meters approved by the department director; provided that the department director shall not issue a connection permit or authorize the installation of a water meter until the fees required by this chapter for such connection and metering have been paid. All water meters and related shutoff valves shall be and remain the property of the county.
(b)
The department director shall be authorized to make a determination of the number of meters that may be required for condominiums, apartment buildings, apartment complexes or townhouses, shopping centers, mobile home parks, and other multifamily and multi-unit properties; provided, however, that sub-metering for all such properties shall be required to the extent practicable, as determined by the department director, and as may otherwise be mandated by applicable law. The owner of any such multifamily or multi-unit property shall submit plans, drawings, surveys, and other information as requested by the department director to assist the department director in making his determination under this section.
(c)
All connections to the county water system shall be made, and all water meters shall be installed, at such location as may be determined by the department director or his designee. Without limiting the foregoing, and absent the written authorization of the department director:
(1)
All water meters shall be installed at an easily accessible location on or near the property line of the premises being served adjacent to the public right-of-way; and
(2)
Water meters shall not be installed behind enclosed fences, in paved driveways or in paved parking areas.
(d)
The size, materials of construction, and methods of construction of all pipes, lines, and other facilities connecting to the county water system shall conform to all applicable local, state, and federal chapters, statutes, regulations, codes, and laws, including, without limitation, all plumbing, building, environmental, safety, health, and technical codes.
(Code 1987, § 13-5.1; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-7. - Restoration of disturbed public property.
Any construction work relating to the county water system and conducted on the public right-of-way or any public property by anyone other than county personnel shall be conducted only with proper, written permission from the department director. All disturbed areas as a result of such construction shall be restored, at the sole cost of the person undertaking the work, to substantially the same condition as prior to the disturbance. The scheduling of such construction activities shall be as approved by the department director if such scheduling approval is determined to be in the public's best interest. Additionally, as a condition to any such construction work, the director shall be authorized to require such deposit, bond, indemnification, and other assurances as the director determines appropriate.
(Code 1987, § 13-6; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-8. - Easements restrictions; no permanent construction near easements.
(a)
Permanent easements granted, obtained, or otherwise used by the county in connection with the water system are established so that inter alia the county may properly install, inspect, observe, measure, sample, repair, protect, maintain, replace, and operate said water system. It is essential that access to the easement not be obstructed. Although the property owner owns the underlying fee simple title to the land within the easement area subject to the easement rights, all construction, digging, grubbing, clearing, filling, or other earth moving or construction activities by the owner in the permanent easement area are prohibited without prior permission from the department director or his designee. Permanent structures shall not be permitted within the easement or easement setback as provided in subsection (b) of this section. In addition, upon demand by the county, nonstructural improvements within easement areas (e.g., walkways, landscaping, etc.) are subject to immediate removal at the owner's risk and sole cost. The county shall not be liable for repairing, maintaining, or replacing (or otherwise reimbursing any person for) any item or improvement within the easement area that is removed to access, protect, repair, operate, or maintain the water system.
(b)
No permanent structures shall be constructed within ten feet of the edge of a permanent water easement on front and rear setbacks, or within two feet on side setbacks. The department director may grant a variance, in writing, to this requirement, provided that it can be demonstrated to his reasonable satisfaction that such structure will not impede future installation, maintenance, replacement and other activities relating to the county water system within said easement.
(Code 1987, § 13-7; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-9. - Capping and sealing of discontinued water connections.
All water service connections for which service has been discontinued as a result of the demolition of the structure being served by the connection, or for any other reasons, shall be properly and permanently capped and sealed to prevent the escape of potable water as required by the department director.
(Code 1987, § 13-8; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-10. - Damage or interference with system; unlawful diversion of service.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally and without authority to:
(1)
Damage, tamper with, alter, or destroy any meter, pipe, conduit, wire, line, or other part of the county water system;
(2)
Prevent a meter from properly registering the quantity of water supplied;
(3)
Divert or use (or cause to be used) water from the county water system without the required permit or payment of all scheduled fees and charges; or
(4)
Otherwise interfere with the proper operation of the county water system.
(b)
Where there is no evidence to the contrary, the person performing any of the illegal acts described in this section and the person who with knowledge of such violation receives the benefit of such service without proper charge shall be presumed to be responsible for such acts of tampering or diversion.
(c)
Any person who violates subsection (a) of this section, upon citation and conviction of the violation in a court of competent jurisdiction, shall, in addition to civil and other penalties and remedies authorized in this chapter, be subject to imprisonment as provided in section 1-8. Where any offense or violation continues from day to day, each day's continuance thereof shall be deemed a separate offense.
(d)
In addition to fines and other criminal and civil penalties and remedies authorized hereunder, any person convicted for violation of this section shall pay retribution to the county for any damage to its equipment at current costs for labor and materials necessary to reestablish service and otherwise repair and replace damage portions of the county water system.
(e)
Any person negligently damaging or destroying any portion of the county water system shall also be liable for the full repair and replacement cost, as the case may be, of said damaged or destroyed components.
(Code 1987, § 13-9; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-11. - Connection to private water system prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to physically interconnect a private well or other private water supply with the county water system, whether separated by shutoff values, backflow preventers, or any other device, and irrespective of the quality or characteristics of water in the private supply system.
(Code 1987, § 13-10; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-12. - Continuity and quality of service; sovereign immunity preserved.
(a)
The county shall make every reasonable effort to provide continuous service and potable water. The county does not warrant that system malfunctions or deficiencies will not result in service interruptions or pressure changes, nor does it guarantee that water quality will not vary, nor does it guarantee that it will be directly suitable for special commercial or industrial processes. The county assumes no liability for damages caused by varying pressure, interrupted service or water quality changes.
(b)
The county reserves the right to shut off or diminish flow in system mains due to repairs, maintenance, emergencies, or water shortage. The department director shall endeavor to give public notice in the event of water shortage or prolonged routine maintenance interruptions of service. Notice is not required for emergency diversions of water or emergency repairs.
(c)
Under no circumstances will the county or any employee, contractor, or official thereof be liable for any damage, accident, or loss of any kind caused by or resulting from the discontinuance, suspension, or other unavailability of water services or its quality.
(d)
Neither this chapter nor any contract entered into or implied with respect to the county water system shall in any way waive or otherwise impair the county's sovereign immunity from suit or the official immunity of its employees and officers, and no services provided or actions taken by the county or its employees, officers, or contractors now or hereafter (or which any such person fails to take) with respect to this chapter and the county water system shall be deemed to so waive or impair the county's sovereign immunity or its employees or officers official immunity, and neither the county nor its officers or employees shall in any event be estopped from asserting their respective sovereign or official immunity to the fullest extent granted by the constitution and laws of the state.
(Code 1987, § 13-11; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-13. - Supplemental ordinance.
The requirements and other provisions of this chapter are supplemental to any and all other applicable local, state, and federal laws, ordinances, statutes, and regulations, and shall not preclude their application and enforcement.
(Code 1987, § 13-12; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-14. - Additional regulations.
The department director, with the consent of the county administrator, is authorized to adopt and implement such additional written regulations and policies as deemed necessary or desirable to better ensure the proper and efficient operation of the county of water system.
(Code 1987, § 13-13; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Secs. 38-15—38-31. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FEES AND CHARGES

Sec. 38-32. - Service charges and fees generally.
(a)
Purpose. It is the purpose of this article to establish a fee mechanism whereby the users of the county water services are charged for those services in an amount established by the county as being necessary to properly maintain, repair, replace, operate, and expand, as the case may be, the water system in a sound, businesslike manner and to provide adequate financial support for the same.
(b)
Customer classifications. Without limiting the right of the county to further define and establish customer classifications and categories, the following customer categories are established:
(1)
Residential customer is the owner or occupant of an individual structure used primarily as a residence and assigned one water meter.
(2)
Nonresidential customer is:
a.
The owner or occupant of a structure with assigned water meter that is used for commercial or institutional purpose, not as residence; or
b.
The owner of a building containing two or more dwelling units served by a single water meter.
(c)
Water connection charge. There is hereby levied and assessed a service charge for making connections to the county water system, to also include the costs of all water meters, backflow prevention devices, and related items necessary for connection to the water system. All amounts charged for water connections pursuant to this chapter shall be assessed to the owners of the property being connected, and such charges shall be collected prior to the making of such connection unless other payment arrangements are approved in writing by the department director. Water connection assessments shall be as shown on the rate and fee schedule on file and available at the office of the board of commissioners and the office of the department director.
(d)
Water tap charge. There is hereby levied and assessed a tap charge for all connections to the county water system, which shall be assessed to the owners of the property being served. All tap charges shall be collected prior to the making any connection to the water system unless other payment arrangements are approved in writing by the department director. Water tap charges shall be as shown on the rate and fee schedule on file and available at the office of the board of commissioners and the office of the department director.
WATER USAGE RATES
EXPAND
Rate Block Water Rate Calculation
0—2,000 Base rate
2,001—6,000 $1.5 × usage above 2,000
6,001—11,000 $1.8 × usage above 6,000
11,001—18,000 $2.0 × usage above 11,000
18,001 & up $2.5 × usage above 18,000
    WATER BASE RATES
EXPAND
Base Rate
Residential
¾' meter $33.50
1' meter $39.00
Commercial
¾' meter $44.00
1' meter $65.00
2' meter $120.00
3' meter $175.00
4' meter $225.00
6' meter $275.00
    WATER SERVICE CONNECTION FEES
EXPAND
Meter Size Fee
¾' meter $1,300.00
1' meter $1,500.00
2' meter $2,000.00
3' compound meter* $3,800.00
4' compound meter* $5,000.00
6' compound meter* $7,900.00
  * Provision of meter only, does not include meter box or connection to main.
ADDITIONAL FEES
EXPAND
Account activation fee $ 75.00
Re-connection fee $75.00
Damaged meter replacement $445.00
  (e)
Water service charge for usage. There are hereby levied and assessed rates, fees and/or charges for the service, maintenance, operation and amortization of the county water system. The actual rates, fees, and charges assessed by the county for water services provided shall be published in a separate rate or fee schedule. A copy of such rate or fee schedule shall be on file and available at the office of the board of commissioners and the office of the department director; provided, however, that the rates initially charged under this chapter are attached to the ordinance from which this subsection derives as exhibit "A" and by this reference approved by the said board of commissioners for all purposes.
(f)
Changes in rates. The rates, fees and charges assessed by the county in connection with the water system may be revised from time to time by affirmative action of the county board of commissioners as determined necessary by said board, in its sole and absolute discretion, to support the present and future financial needs of the county water system and to otherwise ensure for the water systems proper operation and compliance with all applicable laws and grant requirements; provided that a review of the regularly occurring water usage rates imposed pursuant to subsection (e) of this section shall be conducted no less than annually.
(g)
No free services. No free services will at any time be furnished from the county water system.
(Code 1987, § 13-14; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013; Amend. of 9-2-2014, exh. A)
Editor's note— The rates set forth in exhibit A to an amendment adopted September 2, 2014, have been included in this Code as part of this subsection at the direction of the county.
Sec. 38-33. - Miscellaneous charges.
In addition to any other fees and charges authorized or implied by this chapter, the following fees and charges shall also be authorized in connection with the county water system:
(1)
Delinquent billed accounts. All billed accounts are due and payable on the billing date. Billed accounts not paid within 30 days from the billing date are delinquent, and service may be disconnected by the county and a service charge added to the account. This delinquent service charge is applicable to each service call to discontinue service for delinquent accounts. The customer will be charged for the service call even if the service is not disconnected.
(2)
Service calls. All customer service calls shall be charged to the customer requesting the service in accordance with a fee schedule established by the county reflecting as closely as possible the actual cost to the county for rendering the services. Restoration of service will only be made during normal working hours.
(3)
Meter reinstallation due to nonpayment or failure to apply for service. A service charge to reinstall a meter shall be levied.
(4)
Meter replacement, damage. The county shall determine charges to be assessed against any person causing damage to any part of the water system. Without limiting the foregoing, a charge (inclusive of the service call) will be made to replace a meter which has been damaged or frozen, or has in any way been made inoperative. The damaged meter must be returned to the county.
(5)
Meter missing or stolen, replacement. A charge, based upon county cost, will be made to replace a missing or stolen meter.
(6)
Miscellaneous service calls. Service calls to uncover meters, raise meters where the yard has been backfilled or landscaped, or repair meter boxes or meter connections will be billed at county cost.
(7)
Returned checks. A processing fee will be charged for returned checks. If water service has been discontinued as a result of the returned check, the services in subsections (1) and (4) of this section will also apply.
(8)
Failure to apply for service. A fee will be charged to users who have not properly applied for service in their own name. A separate fee shall be charged for each trip made by the county in an effort to have the customer properly and successfully apply for service. Payment must be made by the applicant for all water services utilized subsequent to the former customer discontinuing service.
(9)
Water service deposits. Unless otherwise authorized in writing by the department director, a deposit is required on all accounts at the time water service is connected. This deposit shall be as defined within the rate schedule. The deposit shall be held on account for a period of not less than 24 months. After an account has established an excellent payment record for a consecutive 24-month period, the deposit shall be refunded. An excellent payment record shall mean there is no incident of delinquency, returned check, or a regular pattern of payment when past due, all as determined by the department director. The method of refund will be as a credit to the account or as a separate payment. If a deposit has been refunded and the account subsequently becomes delinquent, a deposit shall be required to be reestablished on the account, or arrangements approved by the department director made, prior to reestablishment of service. If an account is closed prior to a deposit refund, the deposit amount shall be applied to the final bill and a balance mailed to the customer as a credit refund. The county shall be under no obligation to deposit any service deposits in an interest-bearing account, and any interest earned on such monies while in the control of the county shall be the exclusive property of the county.
(10)
Unauthorized connection or usage. Fees will be charged for unauthorized water system connections and also for the unauthorized use of county water system services in an amount equal to the connection fees, usage fee, and other fees and charges that would have otherwise been charged for such connection and usage if the user had been authorized to make such connection and use such water services.
(11)
Other services. For any services not falling within the above definitions, the county may fix a charge on the basis of cost of labor and materials required.
(12)
When service charges payable; disconnection of service for failure to pay. The payment of the sum due shall be made monthly or at such other time as indicated by the county in accordance with a statement setting forth the amount due. Payment for services billed monthly and not made within 20 days from the due date shall be subject to a surcharge of ten percent of the delinquent account; provided that such surcharge shall in no event exceed the reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the county as a result of such delinquency. The amount of such surcharge shall be established, in writing, by the department director from time to time based on such costs incurred. The failure to make any monthly payments for 60 days after the original due date shall result in water service to the premises being discontinued, with or without notice. Failure to receive notice of the amount due shall in no way relieve the customer, or owner of the property served, from making payment as provided in this section. Should any customer, including the owner of the property, receiving water service fail to pay any non-reoccurring, monthly sum due pursuant to this section, the water service shall be discontinued until such sums, with penalties as provided in this chapter, are paid in full. The remedies specified herein shall be in addition to any other remedies and penalties authorized in this chapter.
(13)
Reconnection charge when water service interrupted for failure to pay service charge. Upon the failure of any customer receiving water service to make payment, the water service shall be interrupted, and in that event a reconnection charge shall be assessed and collected with all arrearage due before the water service will be restored; provided that the department director may authorize that the payment of such arrearage be made in installments, as determined by the department director to be reasonable and appropriate given the particular circumstances.
(14)
Oversized meter boxes. The customer shall additionally be responsible for the cost of any meter boxes or meter vaults which exceed the standard dimensions or specifications for water meter boxes prescribed by the department director, as well as any other costs and expenses incurred by the county in connection therewith.
(Code 1987, § 13-15; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-34. - Persons liable for payment.
All persons applying for water service shall be individually and personally liable for the payment of all fees and charges required under this chapter; provided, however, that, in the case of townhouses, apartment complexes, mobile home parks, or similar multi-unit properties located on the same plot of land, irrespective of whether units are located in the same building or not, the water bill shall be billed to the owner of the property served; but in the case of a condominium (as organized under O.C.G.A. § 44-3-70 et seq. or other provisions of law), the same shall be charged to the association, except in cases where each dwelling unit has its own water meter.
(Code 1987, § 13-16; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Secs. 38-35—38-56. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - WATER CONSERVATION

Sec. 38-57. - Outdoor water use restrictions.
All users of the county water system shall comply with those restrictions on outdoor water use set forth in section 14-19, as the same may be modified, supplemented, or restated from time to time.
(Code 1987, § 13-17; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Secs. 38-58—38-87. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - BACKFLOW PREVENTION

Sec. 38-88. - Backflow prevention devices.
Backflow prevention devices shall be required for all connections to the county water system as prescribed by regulations promulgated by the department director from time to time and maintained in said director's office and the office of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1987, § 13-18; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Secs. 38-89—38-119. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 38-120. - Violations.
Except as otherwise provided herein, the failure of any person to comply with any provision contained in this chapter shall subject such person to the penalties set forth herein.
(Code 1987, § 13-19; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-121. - Consent orders.
The department director may enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance or other documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include a specific action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a specific time period specified by the document.
(Code 1987, § 13-20; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-122. - Termination of service; lien created; interest on amounts due.
(a)
Termination generally. In order to enforce the operation of this chapter, the county shall have the power and authority to enter upon the property of any user who has violated any provision of this chapter to terminate the user's water service in any manner deemed necessary and appropriate by department director; provided that the county shall note terminate water service due to nonpayment of reoccurring usage fees until 60 days following the due date of such payment. In the event of such termination under this section, the county shall retain all rights to collect unpaid bills or amounts owed by the terminated user according to law or other provisions of this chapter. Such rates or charges, if not paid when due, shall constitute a lien upon the premises served, though no such lien shall be imposed against the premises to secure unpaid charges for water furnished unless the owner of such real property is the person who incurred the charges. Past due amounts shall bear interest at the same rate as would unpaid ad valorem taxes.
(b)
Restoration of service to rental property. When service is terminated to a rented premises, service may be restored to the premises upon request of a party, renter or owner, who is not personally liable for water service previously, who did not otherwise utilize waters services at the premises, and who was previously not delinquent in payment of the water bill at the premises. Additionally, water service shall not be refused to any single or multifamily residential property to which water has been furnished through the use of a separate water meter for each residential unit on application of the owner or new resident tenant of the premises because of the indebtedness of the prior owner, prior occupant, or prior lessee for water previously furnished.
(Code 1987, § 13-21; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-123. - Civil liabilities and penalties.
(a)
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to the county for a maximum civil penalty under O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20 of $1,000.00 per violation per day.
(b)
The department director may recover reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and monitoring expenses and the cost of actual damages incurred by the county.
(c)
In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the violation, any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective actions by the user, the compliance history of the user and any other factor as justice requires.
(d)
Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Code 1987, § 13-22; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-124. - Injunctive relief.
When the department director finds that a user has violated or continues to violate any provisions of this chapter, the department director may petition the appropriate superior court of jurisdiction through the county attorney for issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the requirements imposed by this chapter. The department director may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Code 1987, § 13-23; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-125. - Right to enter premises.
(a)
Duly authorized employees and representatives of the county and authorized representatives of applicable federal and state regulatory agencies bearing proper credentials and identification shall be allowed to enter all properties served by the county water system for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, monitoring, testing, and other necessary activities. The county may, but is not required to, provide the user with prior notice of the entry.
(b)
The rights of entry set forth in subsection (a) of this section shall be in addition to any and all rights granted to the county under any easements which it may hold. Additionally, and without limiting such other rights of the county, duly authorized employees and representatives of the county bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted, with or without notice, to enter all private properties through which the county holds an easement, whether by virtue of express grant or prescriptive right, for the purposes of maintaining, operating, repairing, or replacing the water system, including, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, and sampling of any portion of the water system lying within such easement.
(Code 1987, § 13-24; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
Sec. 38-126. - Enforcement actions cumulative.
Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, all of the enforcement provisions set forth in this chapter are cumulative to any other enforcement procedures or remedies which may be available to the county either by this chapter or at law or in equity.
(Code 1987, § 13-25; Ord. No. 2013-007, § I, 12-3-2013)
