Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Home rule power of counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I; construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; authority of municipality to adopt ordinances, resolutions or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances, resolutions and other enactments embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as "The Code of Ordinances, Liberty County, Georgia," and may be so cited. Such Code may also be cited as the "Liberty County Code" or the "County Code."
(Code 1987, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Specific rules of construction; definitions.
(a)
General. In the construction of this Code the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the county board of commissioners:
(b)
Interpretation and application. In the interpretation and application of any provisions of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
(c)
Definitions.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of Ordinances, Liberty County, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Commission, county commission, board of commissioners, county board of commissioners, board of county commissioners, governing authority and governing body. The terms "commission," "county commission," "board of commissioners," "county board of commissioners," "board of county commissioners," "governing authority," and "governing body" mean the board of commissioners of Liberty County, Georgia.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means Liberty County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the county to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. The one gender includes the other genders.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to three or more persons may be executed by a majority of them.
Keeper, proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" include persons, firms, associations, corporations, receivers, trustees, personal representatives, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. The singular or plural number each includes the other.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the latest edition of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Officers, departments. Whenever titles of various officers, departments or other agencies are used, they shall refer to the persons holding such offices, departments or agencies of Liberty County, Georgia; and shall include their duly authorized subordinates and representatives.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and" and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or tenant in partnership of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" extends and is applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as herein defined.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. Whenever the term "premises" is used, it means place or places.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" means the place adopted by a person as such person's place of habitation, and to which, whenever such person is absent, such person has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed such person's residence.
Seal. The term "seal" means the county seal.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street or road between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
Signature, subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" of a person includes a mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. The term "the state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Street or road. The term "street" or "road" means the entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
Tenant, occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. The present or past tense includes the future.
Week. The term "week" means seven days.
Written, in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" includes any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1987, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; similar provisions, O.C.G.A. 13-3(5).
Sec. 1-3. - Statutory rules of construction.
Except as otherwise provided in this Code, the same rules shall be applied in construing provisions of this Code, and ordinances, resolutions and motions of the board of commissioners, as are applied in construing the statutes of this state, which rules are found in O.C.G.A. §§ 1-3-1 through 1-3-3, and the same meanings are to be given words as are given similar words found in the statutes of this state.
(Code 1987, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and reference notes.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 1987, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Effective date of ordinances and resolutions.
Ordinances and resolutions which do not provide for their taking effect at a different time, shall take effect immediately after their passage, or as otherwise provided by law.
(Code 1987, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Amendments; new provisions.
(a)
All ordinances and resolutions passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances and resolutions, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of The Code of Ordinances, Liberty County, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That The Code of Ordinances, Liberty County, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section reads as follows:…." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All subsections, sections, articles or chapters desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by subsections, section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1987, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the board of commissioners. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive parts of permanent and general ordinances and resolutions passed by the board of commissioners during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance or resolution included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances, resolutions and parts thereof included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize ordinances and resolutions into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing sections or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance," "this resolution" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinances and resolutions incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinance or resolution sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 1987, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty.
(a)
In this section, the phrase "violation of this Code" or "violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance" means any of the following:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code, or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section, the phrase "violation of this Code" or "violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance" does not include the failure of a county officer or county employee to perform an official duty unless it is specifically provided that the failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
Unless a higher penalty is otherwise specified, whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the county any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in this Code or any ordinance the doing of any act is required and the failure to do such act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided, and unless otherwise provided by state law, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding 60 days, or both a fine and sentence of imprisonment; and all sentences may be in the alternative and fines may be imposed with the alternative of sentence to imprisonment and labor if the fines are not paid.
(d)
Violations of this Code may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief.
(e)
The infliction of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the county's Special and Local Acts or Code.
(f)
Each day any violation of this Code shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1987, § 1-8)
State Law reference— Limitations on penalties, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b); imposition of additional penalty for certain drug offenses, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-100; imposition of additional penalty for offense of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-112; additional penalty to be imposed in criminal and traffic cases to provide training to law enforcement officers and prosecuting officials, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; additional penalty assessments for jail construction and staffing, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-91; punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; deposit of driver's license for violations of laws pertaining to traffic and motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11; payments to peace officers annuity and benefit fund from revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.; alternative punishments for violations involving a traffic offense, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3(e).
Sec. 1-9. - Effect of repeal of ordinances and resolutions.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not revive any ordinance or resolution in force before or at the time the ordinance or resolution repeal took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance or resolution repealed, nor any right acquired or liability incurred under any ordinance or resolution repealed.
(Code 1987, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-10. - Provisions not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the county.
(4)
Any right or franchise granted by the county.
(5)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order relating to specific public improvements or assessments therefor.
(6)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order providing for the levy or collection of taxes or for an annual budget or appropriations.
(7)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order pertaining to zoning.
(8)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order relating to the investment of county funds.
(9)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion, order, rule or regulation prescribing regulations, compensation, positions, classification, and other matters pertaining to county officers or employees, not inconsistent herewith.
(10)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the county.
(11)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order naming, renaming, opening, closing, prescribing grades, etc., of streets, roads, bridges and other public ways.
(12)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order establishing utility connection charges, deposits, service charges or other charges not inconsistent with this Code.
(13)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order creating, establishing, prescribing or abolishing housing authorities, urban renewal projects and minimum housing standards.
(14)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order not inconsistent with this Code prescribing or providing traffic regulations at specific places, such as speed limits, through streets, stop intersections, yield intersections, one-way travel, no left turns, no right turns, traffic-control by electrical devices, truck routes, loading zones, no parking zones and limited parking zones; this enumeration is not to be by way of exclusion.
(15)
Any ordinance, resolution, motion or order pertaining to or providing for zoning or subdivision regulations, or airport hazard districts; or accepting any plat.
(16)
Any resolution or ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(17)
Any resolution or ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the county.
(18)
The administrative resolutions or ordinances of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(19)
Any resolution or ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code.
(20)
Any ordinance or resolution of agreement with another political subdivision.
(Code 1987, § 1-10)
Sec. 1-11. - Severability.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code, and of codes or other provisions adopted by reference herein, are severable, and if any such phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section shall be declared invalid by the valid judgement or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code and provisions adopted by reference, since the same would have been enacted by the board of commissioners without the incorporation therein of any such invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1987, § 1-11)
Sec. 1-12. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, insofar as they are the same as those of ordinances and resolutions existing at the time of adoption of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-13. - Prior offenses, penalties, contracts or rights not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance or resolution in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-14. - Altering Code, ordinance or other public document.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person in the county to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions hereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the county to be misrepresented thereby.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, mutilate, or in any other manner alter any other document or record of the municipal government.
Sec. 1-15. - Prior offenses, penalties, contracts or rights not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance or resolution in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-16. - Rates, charges, and fees established.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided for, all rates, charges, or fees necessary for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this Code shall be as currently established or as hereafter adopted by motion, resolution or ordinance of the board of county commissioners, from time to time. Any rates, charges, or fees established by the county pursuant to the regulations or requirements established herein may be changed from time to time by the board of county commissioners, and such changes shall be considered an amendment to this Code.
(b)
Whenever any provision of this Code provides that a rate, charge, or fee shall be established by the board of county commissioners, from time to time, and the amount of such rate, charge, or fee is not expressed in this Code in any dollar amount, then the amount of such rate, charge, or fee shall be the most recent and latest amount established, set or fixed by the board of county commissioners by ordinance, resolution or motion.
