Chapter 16 - FINANCE AND TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Minimum budget, accounting, and auditing requirements for local governments, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 16-1—16-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - AD VALOREM TAX

Sec. 16-19. - Exemption for certain tangible personal property.
(a)
The county board of commissioners hereby agrees to exempt from taxation 100 percent of the value of tangible personal property as defined below. The exemption from ad valorem taxation, including all such taxes levied for educational purposes and for state purposes, applies to all or any combination of the following types of tangible personal property:
(1)
Inventory of goods in the process of manufacturing or production which shall include all partly finished goods and raw materials held for direct use or consumption in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing or production business in the state. The exemption provided for herein shall apply only to tangible personal property which is substantially modified, altered or changed in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing, processing or production operations in this state.
(2)
Inventory of finished goods manufactured or produced within the state in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing or production business when held by the original manufacturer or producer of such finished goods. The exemption provided for herein shall be for a period not exceeding 12 months from the date such property is produced or manufactured.
(3)
Inventory of finished goods which, on January 1, are stored in a warehouse, dock or wharf, whether public or private, and which are destined for shipment to a final destination outside the state and inventory of finished goods which are shipped into the state from outside this state and stored for transshipment to a final destination outside this state. The exemption provided for herein shall be for a period not exceeding 12 months from the date such property is stored in this state. All property that is claimed to be exempt under the provisions of this section shall be designated as being "in transit" upon the official books and records of the warehouse, dock, or wharf, whether public or private, where such property is being stored. Such official books and records shall contain a full, true and accurate inventory of all such property, including the date of the receipt of the property, the date of the withdrawal of the property, the point of origin of the property, and the point of final destination of the same, if known. The official books and records of any such warehouse, dock, or wharf, whether public or private, pertaining to any such "in transit" property shall be at all times open to the inspection of all taxing authorities of this state and of any political subdivision of this state.
(b)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Finished goods means goods, wares, and merchandise of every character and kind, but shall not include unrecovered, unextracted, or unsevered natural resources, or raw materials, or goods in the process of manufacture or production, or in the stock-in-trade of a retailer.
Raw materials means any material whether crude or processed that can be converted by manufacturing, processing, or a combination into a new and useful product, but shall not include unrecovered, unextracted, or unsevered natural resources.
(Code 1987, § 7-1; Res. of 7-2-1985)
Sec. 16-20. - Exemption for housing project.
The Housing Authority Project is hereby exempted from all taxes and special assessments so long as said project is operated as a low-rent housing project.
(Code 1987, § 7-2; Res. of 1-3-1978(2))
Secs. 16-21—16-43. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - AUTHORIZED USE OF PURCHASING CARDS AND CREDIT CARDS BY ELECTED OFFICIALS

Sec. 16-44. - Intent and scope.
This article is intended to comply with the policy requirements of O.C.G.A. § 36-80-24 regarding the use of county-issued government purchasing cards and credit cards.
(Ord. No. 2015-002, § 7-24, 12-17-2015)
Sec. 16-45. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Authorized elected official means an elected official designated by public vote of the board of commissioners to receive a county-issued government purchasing card or credit card.
Card administrator means the purchasing card and credit card administrator designated by the county, who may be one or more persons employed by the county. Unless otherwise provided by the county, the card administrator with respect to purchasing cards shall be the county's finance officer, and the card administrator with respect to credit cards shall be the executive assistant to the county administrator.
County means Liberty County and/or the board of commissioners, as the context requires.
County purchase card, county p-card or county credit card means a financial transaction card issued by any business organization, financial institution, or any duly authorized agent of such organization or institution, used by a county official to purchase goods, services and other things of value on behalf of the county.
Financial transaction card means an instrument or device as the term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-9-30(5).
User agreement means the required agreement between the county and the authorized elected officials which restricts the use of a county purchasing card or credit card.
(Ord. No. 2015-002, § 7-25, 12-17-2015)
Sec. 16-46. - Designated elected officials.
The county, in its discretion, may authorize specific county elected officials to use a county purchasing card or credit card by adoption of a resolution in a public meeting. No authorized elected official may use a county purchasing card or credit card until and unless he has executed the county's purchasing card and credit card user agreement. The county will not make payments to any business organization, financial institution, or any duly authorized agent of such organization or institution, for amounts charged by an elected official to any purchasing cards or credit cards that are not issued pursuant to this article or for any purchases that are not authorized by this article.
(Ord. No. 2015-002, § 7-25, 12-17-2015)
Sec. 16-47. - Card administrator.
The responsibilities of the card administrator include:
(1)
Managing county-issued purchasing cards and credit cards.
(2)
Serving as the main point of contact for all county purchasing card and credit card issues.
(3)
Serving as liaison to the elected officials authorized to use a purchasing card or credit card and their staff, as well as to the issuer of the purchasing card or credit card.
(4)
Providing training on card policies and procedures to the elected officials authorized to use a purchasing card or credit card and their staff.
(5)
Developing internal procedures to ensure timely payment of cards.
(6)
Assisting authorized elected officials to dispute transactions when necessary.
(7)
Establishing internal procedures to ensure compliance with this article, county procurement ordinances and policies, county purchasing card and credit card user agreements, applicable agreements with the business organization, financial institution, or any duly authorized agent of such organization or institution, issuing card, and state law, specifically, O.C.G.A. §§ 16-9-37 and 36-80-24.
(8)
Documenting internal controls, audits and other measures to prevent and detect misuse or abuse of the cards.
(9)
Auditing and reconciling transactions monthly.
(10)
Maintaining records for at least seven years or as otherwise provided by the county's record retention policy.
(Ord. No. 2015-002, § 7-27, 12-17-2015)
Sec. 16-48. - Use of cards.
(a)
Authorized purchases. County purchase cards and credit cards may be used to purchase goods and services directly related to the public duties of the authorized elected official only. All purchases are subject to the terms of this article, the county purchasing card and credit card user agreement, county procurement policies and ordinances, and the adopted budget.
(1)
Only authorized elected officials may use a county purchase card or credit card for purchases or payments. The cards, and use of the cards, are not transferrable to employees. The authorized elected official shall use care to ensure that others do not have access to the card account number, expiration date and security code.
(2)
Transaction limits for county purchasing cards and credit card shall be established in the county purchasing card and credit card user agreement applicable to each authorized elected official, provided that the following maximum limits are established:
a.
Per transaction: $5,000.00.
b.
Per month: $5,000.00.
(b)
Unauthorized purchases. County purchasing cards and credit cards shall not be used for goods and services not directly related to the official responsibilities of the authorized elected official. Additionally, cards shall not be used to avoid compliance with the county's purchasing ordinances and procedures, to purchase goods and services that are not approved in the county's budget, to purchase goods and services exceeding the per transaction or per month limit, or to make purchases not in compliance with the county purchasing card and credit card user agreement.
(c)
Receipts and documentation. Receipts, invoices and other supporting documentation of all purchases made with a county purchasing card or credit card shall be obtained and maintained by the authorized county elected official for five years or as otherwise provided by the county's record retention policy. If an original or duplicate cannot be produced, a sworn affidavit of the authorized elected official may be substituted. The documentation must include the supplier or merchant information (i.e., name and location), quantity, description, unit price, total price, price paid without sales tax and an explanation of the purchase sufficient to show that the expense was in the performance of official county duties.
(d)
Public records. All receipts and other documentation of purchases are public records and subject to the requirements of the Georgia Open Records Act, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq., as the same may be amended.
(Ord. No. 2015-002, § 7-28, 12-17-2015)
Sec. 16-49. - Review of purchases and audit.
Proper documentation of purchases, internal controls and other measures prevent and allow detection to misuse or abuse of county-issued purchase cards and credit cards. Authorized elected officials and staff that process payments under this program shall cooperate and comply with the procedures established by the county.
(1)
Review of purchases. All purchases shall be reviewed according to procedures established by the card administrator, provided that the following procedures shall in any event be observed:
a.
Cardholders will ensure that no other persons have access to any card information (i.e., card account number, expiration date, security code).
b.
Cardholders will ensure that all purchases comply with the county internal purchasing policies as established by the card administrator.
c.
Cardholders will ensure that all invoices and receipts meet minimum requirements for adequate documentation of transactions as established by the card administrator.
d.
Cardholders will verify all transactions in the online program made available by the card administrator for such purpose and within the timeframe established by the card administrator. If no such online program is available, the cardholder will acknowledge and verify all transactions in such manner as required by the card administrator.
e.
Ensure that all receipts are uploaded into the online program made available by the card administrator for such purpose as soon as practicable after using the purchase card or credit card, or, if no such online program is available, ensure that all receipts are delivered to the card administrator in such manner as required by the card administrator.
(2)
Audits. The card administrator shall perform an annual review of the card program to ensure adequacy of internal policies and procedures, cardholder spending limits, monthly reconciliation procedures and documentation for transactions. Elected officials and staff shall cooperate with such review. To the extent that the card administrator responsible for purchase cards is also an authorized user of said purchase cards, the card administrator for credit cards shall be responsible for performing said annual review, and vice versa.
(Ord. No. 2015-002, § 7-29, 12-17-2015)
Sec. 16-50. - Violations.
(a)
An elected official shall reimburse the county for any purchases made with a county-issued purchase card or credit card in violation of this article or the user agreement.
(b)
In the discretion of the county, the failure to comply with the procedures outlined in this article may result in:
(1)
A warning;
(2)
Suspension of the elected official's authority to use a county purchase card or credit card; or
(3)
Revocation of the elected official's authority to use a county purchase card or credit card.
(c)
Nothing in this article shall preclude the county governing authority from referring misuse of a purchase card or credit card for prosecution to the appropriate authorities.
(Ord. No. 2015-002, § 7-30, 12-17-2015)
