ARTICLE II. - GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE
A. - CREATION

Section 2.10. - City council creation; number; election.
The legislative authority of the government of this city, except as otherwise specifically provided in this charter, shall be vested in a city council to be composed of a mayor and four councilmembers. The city council established shall in all respects be a successor to and continuation of the governing authority under prior law. The mayor and councilmembers shall be elected in the manner provided by general law and this charter.
B. - TERMS AND QUALIFICATIONS FOR OFFICE

Section 2.11. - Mayor and city council terms and qualifications for office.
The mayor and members of the city council shall serve for terms of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be eligible to serve as mayor or council member unless that person shall have been a resident of the city for 12 months prior to the date of election of the mayor or members of the council; each shall continue to reside therein during that member's period of service and to be registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections of this city.
C. - VACANCIES IN OFFICE

Section 2.12. - Vacancy; filling of vacancies.
(a)
Vacancies - The office of mayor or council member shall become vacant upon the occurrence of any event specified by the Constitution of the State of Georgia, Title 45 of the O.C.G.A., or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(b)
Filling of Vacancies - A vacancy in the office of mayor or council member shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, by appointment by the mayor and/or council, if less than 12 months remains in the unexpired term, otherwise by an election, as provided for in Section 5.14 of this charter and in accordance with Titles 21 and 45 of the O.C.G.A., or other such laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
D. - COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES

Section 2.13. - Compensation and expenses.
The mayor and council members shall receive compensation and expenses for their services as provided by ordinance.
E. - PROHIBITIONS

Section 2.14. - Holding other office; voting when financially interested.
(a)
Elected and appointed officers of the city are trustees and servants of the residents of the city and shall act in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of such residents.
(b)
Except as authorized by law, the mayor or any council member shall not hold any other city office or city employment during the term for which that person was elected.
(c)
Neither the mayor nor any member of the city council shall vote upon or sign any ordinance, resolution, contract or other matter in which that person is financially interested.
F. - INQUIRIES AND INVESTIGATIONS

Section 2.15. - Inquiries and investigations.
Following the adoption of an authorizing resolution, the city council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department, office or agency thereof, and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the city council shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
G. - GENERAL POWER AND AUTHORITY

Section 2.16. - General power and authority of the city council.
Except as otherwise provided by law or this charter, the city council shall be vested with all the powers of government of this city.
H. - EMINENT DOMAIN

Section 2.17. - Eminent domain.
The city council is hereby empowered to acquire, construct, operate and maintain public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, waterworks, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, passive recreational and greenspace, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, and any other public improvements inside or outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be condemned under procedures established under general law applicable now or as provided in the future.
Section 2.18. - Organizational meetings.
The city council shall hold an organizational meeting on the second Monday of each January following an election. The meeting shall be called to order by the mayor and the oath of office shall be administered to the newly elected members as follows:
"I do solemnly (swear)(affirm) that I will faithfully perform the duties of (mayor)(council member) of this city and that I will support and defend the charter thereof as well as the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America.
I do further solemnly swear and affirm that I am not the holder of any unaccounted for public money due this State or any political subdivision or authority thereof; that I am not the holder of any office of trust under the government of the United States, any other state, or any foreign state which, by the laws of the State of Georgia I am prohibited from holding; that I am otherwise qualified to hold said office, according to the Constitution and Laws of Georgia, and that I will support the Constitution of the United States and of this State."
Section 2.19. - Regular and special meetings.
(a)
The city council shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as shall be prescribed by ordinance.
(b)
Special meetings of the city council may be held on call of the mayor or two members of the city council. Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all other members personally, or by telephone personally, at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice to councilmembers shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmembers are present when the special meeting is called. Such notice of any special meeting may be waived by a councilmember in writing before or after such a meeting, and attendance at the meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice on any business transacted in such councilmember's presence. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting.
(c)
All meetings of the city council shall be public to the extent required by law and notice to the public of special meetings shall be made fully as is reasonably possible as provided by Code Section 50-14-1 of the O.C.G.A., or other such applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
I. - PROCEDURES

Section 2.20. - Rules of procedure.
(a)
The city council shall adopt its rules of procedure and order of business consistent with the provisions of this charter and shall provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
(b)
All committees and committee chairs and officers of the city council shall be appointed by the city council and serve at the pleasure of the city council. The city council shall have the power to appoint new members to any committee at any time.
(c)
The city council, by majority vote, shall assign from among its members policy responsibility for the various operating departments of the city
(d)
The city council shall instruct the city manager on matters of importance for any department or other duties which the city council has assigned that councilmember responsibility.
Section 2.21. - Quorum: voting.
The mayor, or mayor pro tempore, and two members of the council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business before the council; on all questions before the city council, the mayor, or mayor pro tempore, if he or she be presiding, shall be entitled to vote only in case of a tie or in case only one vote is needed to pass any motion, resolution, ordinance or other question before the council. No motion, resolution, ordinance or other question before the council shall pass unless a majority of the members, including the mayor or mayor pro tempore, if he or she be presiding, votes for the same, and unless the said motion, resolution, ordinance or question receives at least three affirmative votes.
J. - ORDINANCES

Section 2.22. - Ordinance form; procedures.
(a)
Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be "The mayor and council of the City of Lilburn hereby ordains..." and every ordinance shall so begin.
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by any member of the council and be read at a regular or special meeting of the city council. This reading may be accomplished by the reading of the caption. Ordinances shall be considered and adopted or rejected by the city council in accordance with the rules which it shall establish; except for emergency ordinances provided in Section 2.24. Either the mayor or any council member or council members may request that consideration of any proposed ordinance be delayed until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the governing authority. Said request need not be accompanied by any explanation or reason and shall automatically be delayed until the next regularly scheduling meeting of the governing authority without the necessity of said delay being approved or voted on by the governing authority. The delay of said consideration shall not be further postponed except by vote of the governing authority. Upon introduction of any ordinance, the clerk shall, as soon as reasonable, distribute a copy to the mayor and to each council member and shall file a reasonable number of copies in the office of the clerk and at such other public places as the city council may designate.
Section 2.23. - Action requiring an ordinance.
In addition to other acts required by general state law or by specific provisions of this charter to be done by ordinances, acts of the council which have the force and effect of law shall be done by ordinance.
Section 2.24. - Emergencies.
(a)
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property or public peace, the city council may convene on call of the mayor or one councilmember and promptly adopt an emergency ordinance, but such ordinance may not levy taxes; grant, renew or extend a franchise; regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services; or authorize the borrowing of money except for loans to be repaid within 30 days. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form prescribed for ordinances generally, except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists, and describing the emergency in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted, with or without amendment, or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of at least three council members shall be required for adoption. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand repealed 30 days following the date upon which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
(b)
Such meetings shall be open to the public to the extent required by law and notice to the public of emergency meetings shall be made as fully as is reasonably possible in accordance with Code Section 50-14-1 of the O.C.G.A., or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
Section 2.25. - Codes of technical regulations.
(a)
The city council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally except that:
(1)
The requirements of subsection (b) of Section 2.22 for distribution and filing of copies of the ordinance shall be construed to include copies of any code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance; and
(2)
A copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the clerk pursuant to Section 2.26.
Section 2.26. - Signing; authenticating; recording; codification; printing.
(a)
The clerk shall authenticate by the clerk's signature and record in full in a properly indexed book kept for that purpose, all ordinances adopted by the council.
(b)
The city council shall provide for the preparation of a general codification of all the ordinances of the city having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted by the city council by ordinance and shall be published promptly, together with all amendments thereto and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the city council may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as "The Code of the City of Lilburn, Georgia." Copies of the code shall be available to all officers, departments, and agencies of the city and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price as fixed by the city council.
(c)
The city council shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to this charter to be printed promptly following its adoption, and the printed ordinances and charter amendments shall be made available for purchase by the public at reasonable prices to be fixed by the city council. Following publication of the first code under this charter and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein. The city council shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with reproduction and distribution of any current changes in or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the code.
Section 2.27. - City manager; appointment; qualifications; compensation.
The city council shall appoint a city manager for an indefinite term and shall fix the manager's compensation. The manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of executive and administrative qualifications.
Section 2.28. - Removal of city manager.
The city manager is employed at will and may be summarily removed from office at any time by the city council.
Section 2.29. - Acting city manager.
The city council may designate a qualified city administrative officer to exercise the powers and perform the duties of manager during the manager's temporary absence or physical or mental disability. The city council may elect to assume these responsibilities depending on the length of absence of the city manager.
Section 2.30. - Powers and duties of the city manager.
The city manager shall be the chief executive and administrative officer of the city. The manager shall be responsible to the city council for the administration of all city affairs placed in the manager's charge under this charter. As the chief executive and administrative officer, the manager shall perform such duties as may be required by the city council and/or required by city ordinance.
Section 2.31. - Election of mayor; forfeiture; compensation.
The mayor shall be elected and serve for a term of four years and until a successor is elected and qualified. The mayor shall be a qualified elector of this city and shall have been a resident of the city for 12 months prior to the election. The mayor shall continue to reside in this city during the period of service. The mayor shall forfeit the office on the same grounds and under the same procedure as for council members. The compensation of the mayor shall be established in the same manner as for council members.
Section 2.32. - Powers and duties of mayor.
The mayor shall:
(1)
Preside at all meetings of the city council. Cast the deciding vote in any instance where the council vote is tied, or where one vote is needed to pass any motion, resolution, ordinance or other question before the council;
(2)
Have power to administer oaths and to take affidavits;
(3)
Sign as a matter of course on behalf of the city all written and approved contracts, ordinances and other instruments executed by the city which by law are required to be in writing;
(4)
Recommend to the city such measures relative to the affairs of the city, improvement of the government, and promotion of the welfare of its inhabitants as he may deem expedient;
(5)
Be the head of the city for the purpose of service of process and for ceremonial purposes, and be the official spokesperson for the city and the chief advocate of policy;
(6)
Prepare, or have prepared, an agenda for each meeting of the city council which shall include all business submitted by the mayor, any councilmembers, the city manager and the city attorney;
(7)
Shall instruct the city manager on matters of importance for any department which the city council has assigned the mayor responsibility or on any matters of importance to the city council;
(8)
Perform such other duties as may be required by law, this charter, or by ordinance.
Section 2.33. - Mayor pro tempore.
The council shall elect by majority vote from among its members a mayor pro tempore. During the absence or physical or mental disability of the mayor for any cause, the mayor pro tempore, or in the mayor pro tempore's absence or disability for any reason, any one of the council members chosen by a majority vote of the city council, shall be clothed with all the rights and privileges of the mayor and shall perform the duties of the office of the mayor so long as such absence or disability shall continue. Any such absence or disability shall be declared by majority vote of all council members. The mayor pro tempore or selected council member shall sign all contracts and ordinances in which the mayor has a disqualifying financial interest as provided in Section 2.14.
