CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE - GEORGIA LAWS
This table gives the location of amendments to the charter. The charter is derived from 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 621), page 4757.
Subpart B - Related Laws

Sec. 1. - Homestead exemption.
(a)
(1)
Each resident of the City of Lilburn is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all City of Lilburn ad valorem taxes for any city purposes, including but not limited to taxes to retire bonded indebtedness, in the amount of $5,000.00 of the assessed value of that resident's homestead, as defined and qualified in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40, except that land which is included in that homestead and which exceeds one acre shall not have the value thereof exempt under this section. Upon qualifying and receiving the homestead exemption provided for in subsection (2) of this subsection, such resident shall cease to be qualified to receive the homestead exemption provided for in this subsection (a)(1).
(2)
Each resident of the City of Lilburn who is 65 years of age or over or who is disabled is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all City of Lilburn ad valorem taxes for any city purposes, including but not limited to taxes to retire bonded indebtedness, in the amount of $10,000.00 of the assessed value of that resident's homestead, as defined and qualified in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40, except that land which is included in that homestead and which exceeds one acre shall not have the value thereof exempt under this section.
(3)
In order to qualify for the exemption granted to disabled persons pursuant to subsection (2) of this subsection, the person claiming such exemption shall be required to obtain a certificate from not more than three physicians licensed to practice medicine under O.C.G.A. ch. 43-34, relative to medical practitioners, certifying that in the opinion of such physicians such person is mentally or physically incapacitated to the extent that such person is unable to be gainfully employed and that such incapacity is likely to be permanent.
(b)
The governing authority of the City of Lilburn or its designee shall provided certificate and application forms for the exemption granted by this section and shall require with the initial application a certificate, if such owner is disabled, and an affidavit by the owner as to the age of the owner and such other information as may be necessary to determine the eligibility of the owner for the exemption.
(c)
The exemption granted by this section shall be claimed and returned as provided for in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1, except that any applicant seeking an exemption under this section shall file a written application therefor on or before August 1 of the year in which such exemption is sought.
(d)
After any such owner has filed the proper affidavit and, if disabled, the proper certificate, as provided in this section, and has been allowed the exemption provided in this section, it shall not be necessary that he make application and file such affidavit and certificate for any year thereafter and such exemption shall continue to be allowed to such owner. It shall be the duty of any resident of the City of Lilburn who has claimed any of the homestead exemptions provided for in this section to notify the governing authority of the City of Lilburn or its designee in the event he becomes ineligible for any reason to receive such homestead exemption.
(e)
The exemptions granted by this section shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any other homestead exemption from City of Lilburn ad valorem taxes.
(f)
The exemptions granted by this section shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1990.
(g)
The exemptions granted by this section shall not apply to or affect any county taxes for county purposes, county school district taxes for educational purposes, or state taxes.
(1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 948), page 4469, §§ 1—7)
