Chapter 30 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 30-1. - Sessions.
The municipal court shall convene the first, second, third and fourth Tuesday and at such other times as may be approved by the mayor and council. When a regular court session falls on a legal holiday or is determined to be in conflict with the regular court schedule, the adjourned court session shall be held at such time as determined by the judge.
(Code 2001, § 2-4-1; Ord. No. 434-12, 6-11-2012)
Sec. 30-2. - Indigent defense program.
The indigent defense program, attached to Ordinance 144-04 (Exhibit A), as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein as the official policy of the City of Lilburn. Said ordinance is available for inspection in the city offices.
(Ord. No. 144-04, § 1(Exh. A), 10-11-2004)
Sec. 30-3. - Solicitor; qualifications and compensation.
(a)
The mayor and council are authorized to appoint a solicitor of the municipal court of the city. The city solicitor is hereby authorized to prosecute all cases to be heard before the municipal court of the city for the city. The mayor and council are authorized to appoint an assistant solicitor to act in the solicitor's place and stead. In the event that the solicitor is unable to attend a particular court session due to illness, emergency or conflicting court appearance schedules, or should the solicitor determine that an assistant solicitor should be present at a particular court session due to a large number of cases on the docket or other applicable factor(s), then the solicitor shall be authorized to designate an assistant solicitor to either act in the solicitor's place and stead or otherwise assist the solicitor for such court session. The solicitor and any assistant solicitors must be permitted to practice law in all courts of the state and be members in good standing with the state bar. The solicitor shall be appointed by the mayor and council and shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council. The solicitor and any assistant solicitors may be removed by a majority vote of the council.
(b)
The compensation of the solicitor and any assistant solicitor shall be on a basis of a standard rate per court and that rate shall be fixed by the mayor and council on an annual basis during the regular budget process. Before entering on duties of office, the solicitor shall take an oath before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths in the state, that he or she will truly, honestly, and faithfully discharge the duties of his/her office to the best of his/her ability without fear, favor or partiality.
(Ord. No. 434-12, 6-11-2012)
